u2016-10-10-0	[[Dr. Bernadett Szél, Dr. Ákos Hadházy and Erzsébet Schmuck are distributing Népszabadság to Members in the Chamber. On Péter Kónya's T-shirt and laptop the following inscriptions are marked: "Freedom Suspended for a Dictatorship." The MSZP image is wearing a mourning ribbon. The people in the room stand up and greet the community of voters. When the chairman of the meeting takes his seat, the people in the room will sit down.]] Dear Parliament, Dear fellow Members, I welcome you all with a great deal of love. The 8th day of the fall session of the Parliament is hereby opened. I would like to inform you that, in the chair of this meeting, Lajos Szűcs and Dezső Reliable notary will be of assistance to me. Welcome to our dear guests and to all those who monitor our work. Dear Parliament, He applied for a pre-meeting speech by Mr Bertalan Tóth of the MSZP Group with the title "Return to the Real World." Here you go, Mr. Group Leader.
u2016-10-10-1	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, The government and Fidesz seem to still not understand what happened on October 2nd. I'll help you: most people had enough of Fidesz hating, they saw through the situation, and they said no to Fidesz and Jobbik's politics. You should acknowledge that there were many, but not enough. They should be aware that there is no amendment of the basic law from an invalid referendum. An invalid referendum is similar - I saw an analogy like that on the Internet - to a party appearing at a wedding. Because his yes, in spite of a hundred percent of those present, does not result in marriage, political, public or in any way, and absenteeism in this case does not mean that the other party has given up the right to make a decision. And there's a big problem when the wedding party starts celebrating. Ladies and gentlemen, It's time for you to stop politicizing your sights and supporting actions. An amendment to the basic law is just as pointless to deal with the refugee crisis as a referendum. Tibor Navracsics, your former leader of the group, has confirmed that there has never been a group settlement, so far it has been decided by the Member States, against which no one could and cannot be introduced into the territory. As there is no amendment of the basic law from an invalid referendum, I declare here that the group of the MSZP does not participate in the process of amending the basic law, either in the five-party consultation, in the debate or in the vote. Ladies and gentlemen, The fundamental law amendment is fraudulent, because the Fundamental Law also includes freedom of the press. [[The representatives of the MSZP are presenting the People's Freedom.]] But, on the contrary, the Fundamental Law states in several places that public money should not be stolen. Fidesz corruption cannot be obscured either by a fundamental amendment or by a silence of a newspaper. This weekend, you have struck another nail in the coffin of freedom of the press. [[Agnes Kunhalmi: Shame!]] Because no one should have any illusions: where public media is the Fidesz party mouthpiece, where fidesz oligarchs who are fattened from public money can buy up media that are independent of the government, and because of their writings they can close, where journalists who do their work can be banned from Parliament, there we cannot talk about freedom of the press. [[Interview from the ranks of the MSZP: Shame!]] Yesterday the Origo, vs.hu, TV2, today the Népszabadság - who's next? [[Miklós Soltész: The Népszava!]] Ladies and gentlemen, Fidesz and the government have to account for the senseless and unnecessary spending of 17 billion forints of public money. This money is missing from domestic health care and education. The settlement is to be investigated by a parliamentary ad hoc committee, and we have tabled a proposal today. It's time to get back to everyday politics, daily problems, and the scandals of Fidesz. There is no shortage of scandalous cases, because we have no doubt: Antal Rogán's helicopter is being flown by Viktor Orbán; Árpád Habony's brazen wealth and wealth is guaranteed by Viktor Orbán; the unparalleled career and wealth of the non-stróman's gas mechanic is guaranteed by Viktor Orbán. Ladies and gentlemen, In order to eliminate Viktor Orbán's kleptocracy, we have developed our so-called anti-corruption package, which will be sent to an opinion this week [[István Szilárd Németh intervenes.]] legal and civil society organisations. We would like the proposals to be presented to Parliament in such a way that they meet the professional position of the legal protection organisations. Dear Parliament, We want to build a Hungary where the laws do not serve corruption, but prevent the theft of public funds at systemic level; a Hungary where the perpetrators of corruption are closed, and not the newspapers that report it. It is good for all dictators to learn that by banning newspapers, the voice of freedom cannot be suppressed. This will not work for Viktor Orbán and Fidesz - that is why we will work. Thank you for listening.
u2016-10-10-2	Thank you very much, Mr. Group Leader. The answer will be heard from State Secretary Csaba Dömötör. [[Interviews from the ranks of the MSZP.]] Here you go, Secretary of State. [[The imagers of the MSZP raise the Népszabadság. The president's ringing the bell.]]
u2016-10-10-3	Thank you, Mr. President. If the MSZP will set up a Corruption Task Force, then I suggest that you start with the investigation of the Alstom case, where the British authorities suspect 600 million bribes [[Interviews from the ranks of the MSZP.]] moved on a subway investment under left-wing governments. [[Interviews from the ranks of the MSZP. The president's ringing the bell.]] On one thing, Congressman, I agree with you: the referendum on 2 October [[István Gábor Bellozó: Rogán Antilop! Interviews from the ranks of the MSZP.]] It really created a new situation. Ninety-eight percent of the "nos" are obligated to everyone. There is a new national unity for Hungary, the majority of those who believe that Hungary should stand up for Hungary. It's time. [[Interjection from the ranks of the MSZP: Aren't you ashamed?]] It is time for the MSZP to finally hear the Hungarians' voice on immigration after months of misconception. [[There are constant interruptions from the lines of the MSZP.]] In the past, the gravity of migration has been removed, the southern border closure has been attacked, and the Brussels quota package has been denied. I am sorry that you could not read the words of Gyula Molnár, President of the MSZP, who said at a press conference on 31 August: the MSZP does not support the compulsory resettlement quota, and if the bill submitted by the government to Parliament contains this, then the socialists are ready to support it. [[Zoltán Grimlock: That's not what he said! He didn't say that!]] Dear Members of the MSZP, Now is your chance to at least keep your promise. [[Gábor István Bellozó: Where does this friend of yours live? Talk about where this friend of yours lives. Interviews in the ranks of the MSZP. The president's ringing the bell.]] Here I would like to tell you that there is now a chance to join this fight...
u2016-10-10-4	Excuse me, Mr. Secretary, I'll count on your time. [[There are constant interruptions from the lines of the MSZP. Miklós Soltész: You sold Népszabadság...]] I'm asking the representatives of the MSZP... Mr. Note, you have a special task, a special constitutional duty to maintain order, so I warn you, I warn you, do not force me to exclude you from today's debate. Thank you. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2016-10-10-5	Thank you, Mr. President. So, here I would like to tell the MSZP that it is now possible to join the fight against quota. [[Interviews from the ranks of the MSZP.]] They can join by voting in favour of that constitutional amendment [[Interview from the ranks of the MSZP: Fundamental Law!]] which the government is presenting to the Parliament today. As far as the issue of Népszabadság is concerned, the Government considers decisions relating to Népszabadság to be an economic decision only on the basis of the information available. [[Interviews from the ranks of the MSZP, including Ágnes Kunhalmi: No! That's a lie! The president's ringing the bell.]] The government cannot deal with the market transformation of media or interfere with ownership decisions. [[Moraj, interruptors from the ranks of the MSZP. Lajos Kósa: Why did you sell it? It was yours!]] If you could just do that, [[István Gábor Bellozó standing:...shame yourselves!]] if you'd do that. [[Interviews from the ranks of the MSZP. The president's ringing the bell.]] that would be a violation of the freedom of the press. [[A statement from Fidesz: Where's the money? Interviews from the ranks of the MSZP.]]
u2016-10-10-6	Fellow Members! Ladies! Ladies and gentlemen. Dear Fraction, [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] Put a little bit of hardcore... [[An intervention from the ranks of the MSZP: They are laughing today!]] Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2016-10-10-7	I don't really understand how you can claim the Népszabadság case on the government, given that for many years the paper was not owned by the government, but by the MSZP. [[Lajos Kósa: That's right!]] Regardless of the profits and losses, the MSZP kept the paper alive even when it was no longer economically justified, and therefore the political intentions existed in the case of the MSZP. [[13.10]] By the way, the workers of Népszabadság also received their salary when left-wing governments put hundreds of thousands on the street. Let me ask you this. [[Dr. László Kács: Don't ask, answer. Ildikó Bangóné Borbély: Shame on you!]] when asked to be a leader of the European Socialists, the Vice-President of the Group [[Noise. Intercoms from the lines of MSZP and LMP. The president's ringing the bell.]] to worry about the freedom of the people, about the freedom of the press in Hungary, was informed that the party foundation of the MSZP had previously been part of the Népszabadság (Népszabadság). By the way, the MSZP did not consider Népszabadság to be important enough to keep this paper, and where were the similar protests when a left-wing prime minister asked public institutions to cancel the subscription of a right-wing newspaper? Where were you then? [[Noise. Intercoms from the lines of MSZP and LMP. Bangóné Borbély Ildikó: You're lying again!]] You, honourable Members, [[The president's ringing the bell.]] You shed fat tears for freedom of the press, but answer one thing. If freedom of the press is so important, how can János Barabás be appointed as election leader [[István Szávay: That's a good question!]] who was the former secretary of the Central Committee of the MSZMP and one of the agitprop leaders of the 1980s. [[Noise. Interviews from the ranks of the MSZP.]] If you really care about freedom of the press, you will have this man resigned as soon as possible and will inform your colleagues in Brussels as soon as possible. Thank you for your attention. [[Noise in opposition benches. Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties. Nándor Gúr: Shame on you! Ildikó Bangóné Borbély: Where is Antal Rogán?]]
u2016-10-10-8	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Mr Sallai R. Benedek, Member of the LMP Group, entitled "The Alternative Reality of Fidesz" has applied for a pre-meeting speech. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2016-10-10-9	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to talk about a reality that most of us Hungarians can't live to see, but which, according to you, is normal for Vajna's Prime Minister's wife to offer diamonds to Hungarian women, the mayor of Fidesz has a luxury villa on the Adriatic, the Fidesz Rasputin Gucci with a bag, the charming Chancellor's Minister flashes with a million Rolex clock, the media charmer's leader for New Zealand's Ruccan Rolling Stones concert, the Prime Minister's daughter in Bahrain sephis with sheiks, the external minister [[Defiance in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] [[Defiance in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] Or their foreign minister buys Budakeszin's 400-meter house with family help. (Development in the ranks of the governing parties. ) Yes, he is a direct external minister, because he is outside Hungary, and he is also largely in Hungarian reality. The Minister of Propaganda, able to increase housing space, is going to a luxury wedding with a helicopter, and President Matolcsy is renting a luxury villa from the head of the central bank he controls. Well, technically, this is the helicopter democracy, this is the process of Rolex civilization, and this is the Fidesz caste, in which, in the helicopter democracy, there's Smarty, there's Smurf, there's press and there's revelry, there's a big leader and there's a party baron, as we know. [[Noise, clearness in opposition lines.]] I wouldn't waste a lot of words on another rag by our Minister of Propaganda if it weren't for the new fact I wanted to share with you, because that certain high-lord's accommodation where he was accommodated was recently renovated from a total of 420 million in public money. [[Moore in the ranks of the MSZP.]] And it's very, very interesting, if I ask in a data request who paid this bill, then I'll be curious about the results of the data request, whether it's the Rogán family or the host family. But if we look at the owner, this Dr. Ferenc Szabó, we also need to know that Mándok will flourish beyond his own property, because his business interest is World Transit Kft. and Transit Speed Kft., which together with a total of 13 winning applications can receive 2.1 billion public funds from the past period alone. He hosted Mr. Rogan. But just so it doesn't seem like you only have winning businesses, imagine that Dr. Ferenc Szabó is also the leader of the Association for the Rescue of the Monuments of the Mandor Village, which, by accident, won an additional 8 million to restore this castle park, and then because it had to be fixed, after the restoration of 8 million he won an additional 4 million with a 100 percent aid intensity. [[Dr. Wind Bernadett: Shame on you!]] So, overall, this is a fidesz reality, and obviously there's President Matolcsy's event last week, when it doesn't seem to him to be incompatible with the fact that he hires a job from the bank manager he's been checking out - or I'm sorry, an apartment - and obviously this apartment isn't a mandog's luxury mansion, but it's not that small in the Buda Castle district. And rightfully the question is, now these fidests are competing with each other, who can make a bigger rag out of public money? [[Dr. Wind Bernadett: That's right!]] or who is able to acquire greater luxury from the goods acquired from public property. It certainly doesn't seem awkward in this millionaire-billion-dollar Fidesz clan, what Matolcsy is doing doesn't seem embarrassing at all, what Rogán is doing, because from the moral direction, he is already disoriented at such a level that it seems perfectly normal that according to Máté Kocsis, civil servants should harass the population with government propaganda; it seems normal that Viktor Orbán personally orders the control of civilians; it seems normal that they pay their own leaders a salary of 5 million on the basis of EU wages. In your opinion, it is normal that the country is bound to the atom by the 21st century. In the century, and they claim it's not sunny here and the wind isn't blowing. In your opinion, it is normal for a well-organized, partly family-based criminal organization to steal Hungary's public property. [[Noise in the ranks of the MSZP.]] And yet I have found one place where they still have a relationship with the real world, and that is that they still feel what is embarrassing, they still feel what is better if it is not revealed, and obviously they are trying to shut down what would be made public. But this is when the knight or knight of Rezsi Szolgáltatás comes and announces [[Deterioration in opposition benches.]] that it's great that they closed a card like this because they scolded us, because this is a fidesz democracy, because they haven't learned from the past period that they should steal less or steal less spectacularly, or that the Minister of Propaganda shouldn't fly on a helicopter to a luxurious gig. It's not what they learned. It's that if you write it down, it's something that needs to be removed. [[Dr. Wind Bernadett. That's right! Interviews from the ranks of the MSZP: That's right!]] , because they do not understand the operation of the XXI. To the century, they do not understand that such a scale of theft cannot be concealed, and they are obviously faced with the fact that such thefts can no longer be concealed to this extent. If we are talking about what is the truth, we will obviously not know this from Népszabadság, but what we see is that the luxury demands need to be stolen, stolen, stolen, and that is what helicopter conservatism, the Rolex civil values, want. Meanwhile, you hate anyone who speaks the truth because it doesn't match the lie you live in. I think one of the biggest problems might be in this. Thank you for the floor, Mr President.
u2016-10-10-10	Thank you very much. Mr Csaba Dömötör, State Secretary, replied to the speech before the agenda. Here you go, Secretary of State. [[Noise. Interviews from the ranks of the MSZP. It's ringing.]]
u2016-10-10-11	Honourable Congressman, It's a lot of topics, so let me answer a few. I'm not in charge of renovations, so let me continue with the rest. With regard to the helicopter reference, I regret that while you refer to privacy in order, privacy protection, the same is denied to pro-government politicians. [[Bangóné Borbély Ildikó: No privacy! Noise in the lines of MSZP]] By the way, Minister Rogán has already answered all the relevant questions, as he said, that the helicopter is not his property. I think, however, that all politicians, whether pro-government or opposition, have the right to privacy, especially family members, who are not public figures. [[Agnes Kunhalmi: How many helicopters do you have? Noise.]] As far as the Kehi investigation is concerned, such an investigation can only be ordered on the basis of the Prime Minister, the Prime Minister or the Government's decision. The government maintains such institutions in order to supervise the functioning of each organisation, its proper functioning. [[Deterioration in opposition benches.]] This is standard practice elsewhere. If they find everything all right, it's comforting for all of us. [[Noise in the ranks of the MSZP.]] As far as the National Bank of Hungary is concerned, the National Bank of Hungary, as you know, is an independent institution. [[Defiance in the ranks of MSZP and Jobbik.]] And I'd be surprised if the President of the Central Bank's housing would affect his activities in any way. [[Zoltán Gőgös: Is there no other house in Budapest that rents? Interview from the lines of the MSZP: Do you rent it from the exchange rate gains?]] Moreover, the functioning of the central bank is now profitable, which cannot be said for the period before 2010. You gave your speech the title of alternative reality [[Noise. Interviews from the ranks of the MSZP. The president's ringing the bell.]] If I remember correctly. He painted a rather gloomy picture of the state of the country, so allow me to set some examples of measures that affect people's everyday lives. Above all, more than 600 thousand people are now working in Hungary [[Interventions from opposition benches: Where? Zoltán Grimlock: Meg in London.]] According to the latest data from KSH, since the change of regime, so many people have not worked in Hungary. By the way, I ask you not to insult the Hungarians who stand in their place abroad. [[Ildikó Bangóné Borbély presents a small red toy helicopter to Csaba Dömötör. A big round of applause in the ranks of the MSZP.]] [[13.20]] In parallel, real wages have increased for three and a half years, with real earnings rising by 7.4 percent in the first seven months of 2016, which means that annual incomes have increased by nearly one month. These are the most important macro indicators, but these alone are useless if Hungarians do not feel that the economy is stable. This is why it is important that the minimum wage has increased from HUF 73 500 to HUF 111,000 between 2010-15, and health care workers and teachers could receive increased wages just these days. [[Moore in the ranks of the MSZP.]] As far as health care workers are concerned, the wages of specialists and specialists increase at two paces by 207 thousand forints, and the wages of nurses by 65 per cent over several years. I am asking you to take this into account because in the spring it seemed to me that you, too, were concerned about the fate of Hungarian health care. The law enforcement wage increase will continue, which started in 2013. Overall, over the course of several years, there will be 50 percent more wages for law enforcement workers. More money can also be taken home by people working in district offices, while the wages of those working in government offices increase from 1 January. [[László Kövér, President of the Parliament takes the chair.]] I also thank you for your speech because you mentioned several questions, but you did not say very much what the LMP would do if it came to government. There's a serious question here. There's one thing that's really scary. [[There's a lot of noise on the opposition side.]] You are referring more and more - if I may conclude - to a radical tax increase if you were to be on the government, especially with regard to the key that the government has reduced to 15 per cent. That would also mean that those looking for the average salary would be hit by a 10 percent higher key. This also means that net wages would be reduced by more than HUF 20,000 in the area of average earnings. This is a proposal from the LMP which is dangerous and harmful to the middle class and is therefore unacceptable. Whatever the LMP proposes, the government will stick to the tax reduction policy. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties. Noise on the opposition side. Zoltán Grimlock: How much does petrol cost?]]
u2016-10-10-12	I would ask the honourable Members and gentlemen to calm down and try, in the general sense of democracy, to listen to those of other opinions, and to take advantage of the opportunity when you have the floor. You haven't had the floor in the last five minutes, unlike appearances. On the other hand, I give the floor to Mrs Dóra Dúró, representing Jobbik, who was sorry for the money and who wasted the time and will keep her post before the agenda. May I have your attention and your respectful silence, please? Here you go.
u2016-10-10-13	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, From the seven - week - to - week analyses, we can see that the area of education of the government is not important at all. The comparison of closing accounts between 2010 and 2015 shows that, in real terms, the money spent on education did not increase at all during this period, as much nominally as inflation. In fact, this comparison is particularly serious given the fact that no one in the OECD countries spent as little education in 2013 as Hungary. None of the 29 Member States thought that 3.9 percent of GDP should be spent on this area alone. The average was 5.2 percent. It all worked out. At the same time, you have justified public reservation primarily by ensuring balanced and adequate funding for the education system. Now we can see from these data that this did not happen. The main cornerstone of the public reservation, the provision of financing, has not been met. Was it worth it, Mr. Secretary, to beat the hell out of the education system? Was it worth creating and then eliminating the KLIK, causing daily problems for all the actors in education to provide the same amount of funding as they did in 2010? Was that worth it, Mr. Secretary? But not only funding is flawed, but professional decisions have also been a series of faults, and this has resulted in a weakening of social mobility. The start of the school year in 2016 was more expensive than in 2014. An average family was forced to spend 12,000 HUF more per child for the start of the school year, and during the autumn they have to spend more than 80,000 HUF on school-related expenditure. Social mobility channels have also narrowed in terms of higher education. In 2010, the state financed 68 thousand seats in higher education, with only 57 thousand in 2016. This decrease is greater than what can be explained by demography. But in terms of higher education, it is also very serious that the proportion of first generation intellectuals in this regard has fallen from 47 percent to 40 percent. In 2007, 47 percent of students were first generation intellectuals, only 40 percent in 2015. But there are also problems in the field of vocational education and training, and young people hardly get into vocational training. In vocational schools, 38 percent of the registered seats and 56 percent in vocational secondary schools were uploaded. There is no success in any type of education. The textbooks and such a series may not be worth talking about, they have created poor quality textbooks in the new system that teachers do not like to use, and they teach from under the bench from the old books. Just because there are such problems, the situation in education is so serious, Jobbik is one of the priority areas of education in 2016 and 2017. In the context of the real national consultation, we had first discussions with professional organisations, which we concluded on the weekend behind us in a conference, and from today we are asking people's opinions in the fields of education, health and corruption so that we can involve them in programme writing and, in our hope, in the change of government. Governance should not be against the profession, it should not be against the people, but on the contrary, for their sake, for their involvement, taking into account their opinion. This is what Jobbik wants to ensure in the context of the real national consultation, so we want to prepare as much as possible for governance, and we want to govern the country better than you did. Ladies and gentlemen, What you've been doing in education for the past six years is simply no excuse. Thank you for your attention. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2016-10-10-14	Dear House, Before giving the floor to Secretary of State László Palkovics, allow me, on behalf of all of us, to welcome Mrs Pia Kjaersgaard, President of the Danish Parliament, fellow Members and escorts, who, at the invitation of the President of the Parliament, are present in Hungary on an official visit. I wish you successful negotiations and a pleasant stay for Madam President and her delegation. I now give the floor to the Secretary of State. Here you go.
u2016-10-10-15	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear Members, Ladies and Gentlemen, I would like to say the following in response to the statement by the Member. You mentioned in your speech that the government should not shape education policy against the profession. I think that the last few years have shown absolutely that this government, together with the profession, is creating decisions that affect education policy. I would like to remind you of the long conciliation process that preceded the higher education strategy adopted in December 2014, which was followed by a satisfactory zone. The public education round table, which has been operating continuously since January, has addressed all stakeholders in education, whether political parties or other organisations that may not support the government to such an extent. This forum is in operation and we would like to continue to operate this forum within the legislative framework in the future. I would like to say a few numbers of what you have said in your speech. Since 2012, the share of expenditure on education has been increasing steadily up to the 2017 budget. In 2013 it was HUF 1584 billion, in 2014 it was HUF 1721 billion, in 2015 it was HUF 1874 billion, the final figures for 2016 are not yet available, but it will reach or exceed 1900 billion. [[13.30]] I think, in addition to current inflation figures, these figures clearly show growth. What is very important to mention is that our GDP, I can say that unfortunately, but to a large extent, has increased faster than other expenditures, is definitely a positive thing. However, if we look at characteristics such as, for example, the development of budget expenditure in absolute terms, say, in the area of higher education, in 2012, this was HUF 168 billion, which is HUF 293 billion in the planned budget for 2017. This is the extent to which the central budget contributes to education expenditure. In addition, the number of students is not increasing, but, in part, by demography and, in part, by getting out of higher education. This is true of both public education and higher education. Central budget support per student, or even costs, are particularly increasing. But in order not only to talk about trends and trends, but also about concrete actions, I would like to mention teacher wage increases as an example. Compared to 2013, teachers' wages increase by 50 percent until September 2017. This means that until today, i.e. until the further 3.5 percent wage increase in September 2016, the central budget has spent 226 billion HUF on the wages of only the 175 thousand teachers who teach in the public education institution system in Hungary. Some examples of what that means. A teacher born in 1966, with 30 years of working relationship, earned 242 thousand forints, and from September 2016 it will be 344,000 forints, and next year it will be 355 thousand forints. These could be classified. The same applies to higher education workers. At the beginning of this year, in January 2016, the guaranteed salary of academics and researchers in higher education increased by 15 percent, followed by 5 percent next year and an additional 5 percent increase in 2018. The government is working on how to take the second step of this wage increase, which has already been set out in the strategy. If we look at the proportions of this, I think that the budget for education is moving in the right direction with the European Union's resources opened this year and the increasing budget support. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-10-10-16	It is now time for the group leader of the Christian Democratic People's Party, Mr Péter Harrach, to come with the title of the unprecedented wage increases. Here you go, Congressman.
u2016-10-10-17	Mr President, Dear House, We often hear the sentence that behind Western European wages Hungarian wages are lagging behind. That's right. This has been going on for decades. It goes back somewhere between the economic performance of existing socialism and Western capitalism. But anyone who says the same sentence, which we have also heard, that if we come to government, we will soon eliminate this difference, and he means it, is unfit to govern. This is a category of political bluff, which we have already heard today. With only hard work and endurance, this pay gap can be gradually reduced. That's what happened now. We have come to a point where this difference has fallen significantly. To what do we owe this? Definitely economic performance. This has enabled the government to make significant wage increases in all areas of the public sector. This justifies economic policy and financial policy, which is clearly linked to György Matolcsy, and which the Ministry of Economics is doing well. But if we put the issue of wage increases in a little more context, then we must say that in a healthy society, rights and responsibility must somehow be brought into line. It could also be said that the creation of opportunities and the fulfilment of obligations. The opportunities must be created by the state, the right to work and the opportunity, and this is increasingly happening when we take into account employment data. But it also includes the responsibility of workers who have to do decent work. And we have already reached a decent wage, because decent work requires decent wages. After this introduction, perhaps a few words about actual wage increases. Today, there has been talk of a wage increase for teachers, resulting in a 50 percent wage increase in several steps over five years. But it's also a 15-percent increase in higher education plus a 5-5% increase in wages, I think, that's where it belongs. It was 15 percent in the field of culture, 30 percent in law enforcement, followed by a three-fold 5% increase in wages. And don't miss government officials who get 30 percent wage increases, in some cases up to 50 percent. However, the most important thing for us, at least for me, is the health wage increase. Consider that doctors will receive 107,000 HUF more this year, and next year they will have another 100,000 HUF increase. GPs working in primary care receive 130 thousand HUF more per practice this year than last year. This year's increase will be 30-35 thousand forints, and dentists will have 50-55,000 forints. But for me in health care, it may be much more important to raise the wages of the workers, because that is where the biggest delay was. This year their wages will increase by 26,5 percent, next year by 12 percent, then by another 8 and 8 percent for two years. I must add that moving wages will also increase. Especially in this category, the wages of nurses taking part in the OKJ training increase most, reaching 75% at the end of the process. I think that it is also the job of everyone, as an opposition Member, to enjoy this news without lumbering, and not to spoil the joy of others. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-10-10-18	I give the floor to Secretary of State Miklós Soltész.
u2016-10-10-19	Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear Chief of Staff, For a full answer, it is indeed worth a little looking at the situation in which the country was in 2010 and in which it is now. Where did we start and where are we now? The question is whether the facts are of interest to the Socialist faction or not. But thank God, most people know that it's not just the People's Liberty [[Interviews from the lines of the MSZP, among other things: Sit down!]] It's not just the left-wing papers and the media that have to look into things, because the facts are stubborn and important, and that's how we can not only plan but also build for the long term. It is also a fact that there was an economic and financial crisis in 2010. The previous wage increases, which the social government had made before 2010, have never been achieved by the performance of the economy, but by borrowing. As a result, the state, the country's indebtedness, has increased enormously under their government. The change of government in 2010 has changed this point, because we have made a huge change both in economic policy and in the tax system, and the success of this is clearly that the changes that you, Mr Group leader, have said could be made. It is absolutely important to emphasise that these changes were made not by borrowing, but by people's economic activities and the results of their work. It has to be said that since 1992, not as many people have worked as they do now. The unemployment rate is below 5 per cent, and we are in the fifth place of 28 European countries with this low unemployment rate. [[13.40]] There are 4 million 386 thousand people employed, which is 660 thousand more than the number of people employed in the socialist-liberal period. Unemployment rates for 15-24-year-olds decreased to a large extent [[Lajos Korózs: That's not true!]] This was above 30 percent in the socialist period, now 12.8% in 2016. [[Lajos Korózs: That's not true either!]] The employment rate in the Socialists' time was 54,6 percent, now 67.1 percent during this period. And, if I may, my fellow Member, Mr Group leader, I would also like to say a few thoughts on wage arrangements. We can start in the social field, there started in 2014 after the major transformation of the period of wage increases, increased by 16 percent over the last few years. [[Ildikó Bangóné Borbély: There are 288 thousand people nowhere, neither in school nor in the care system!]] and the Social Secretary of State is preparing and finalising the social career. I would like to stress to you, Congresswoman, that it is not the socialist career, because you have already described it. The other major area is the educational area on which changes have taken place in recent years, and despite the fact that Jobbik's deputy leader says that there has been no change here, there has been no real rise in this area, in the field of public education between 2013 and 2016, wages have increased by HUF 226.8 billion. This, by the way, affects 175,000 teachers. If someone denies that, there's nothing to do with it, unfortunately. But after neither Jobbik, the Socialists, nor LMP voted in favour of the 2017 budget, they did not vote in favour of next year's wage increase for teachers. [[Zoltán Grimlock: You're Demagog! You're lying!]] Which, by the way, will amount to another HUF 34.4 billion. In 2016, the wages of 175 thousand people rose by HUF 32 billion from 1 September, and major changes were also made in the field of health. As a result of the recent changes, specialists and hospital pharmacists will receive 107,000 HUF more next year, and as you said, the wages of health professionals - 78 thousand people - will now increase by 26,5 percent from 1 September. This was also not voted by the opposition, not by Jobbik, nor by any party on the left. They - I can say in this regard - in whatever way they try to shout - two years ago because of the high unemployment rate, now because there is a shortage of workers - did not help any of the decisions that had changed the economy, tax policy and thus wage increases. Thank you very much for asking, and thank you very much for telling me all this. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2016-10-10-20	Lajos Kósa, the leader of the Fidesz Group, will be the last in the list of speeches before the agenda:. Does the opposition support the amendment of the Fundamental Law to the quota or are people being deceived again? It's an address. [[Interruption from the ranks of the MSZP.]] To avoid misunderstandings: I did not give the floor to the representatives of the MSZP, but to the representative of Fidesz. Here you go.
u2016-10-10-21	Mr. President. Dear House, On October 2, a new unit was created among the Hungarian people [[Lajos Korózs: Talk about Népszabadság, Lajos! Several members of the MSZP fraction present a Népszabadság.]] This new unit was created for Hungary. [[Agnes Kunhalmi: Is this the new unit? It raises the People's Liberty.]] The 3 million 360,000 people who unanimously said that Hungary would not give in to the pressure of the European Union, Hungary would not give in to its sovereignty, it would rise above the party interests, it would rise above all such small-scale cases. [[Zoltán Grimlock: What little leper? The helicopter?]] which cannot be measured to the country's right to independence, security, identity, and has therefore given a strong mandate to amend the Fundamental Law. The amendment of the Fundamental Law must be brought before Parliament in order to ensure that it is absolutely obvious that this is a matter over parties, it is quite clear that we must stand up for the independence of our country, and it is also clear that we must reject Brussels' immigration policy. Earlier in the campaign, opposition parties were all exposed to the quota issue, the president of the MSZP said in part that he was ready to support the government if Brussels initiated a compulsory quota [[Zoltán Grimlock: If that's relevant.]] He also said that the MSZP is ready to support an anti-quota law. Regardless of whether the MSZP excluded itself from this new unit, it told the Hungarian people not to give your opinion. [[Lajos Korózs: Very well!]] on the matter of security, independence, freedom, the MSZP will now have the opportunity to clear up the damage [[Agnes Kunhalmi: What did you do?]] If it supports the amendment of the basic law in Parliament. But we know, we see: for the MSZP, the independence of the country, the security of Hungary [[Agnes Kunhalmi: You put him in danger!]] It's a much less important matter than the fate of Népszabadság. Which is surprising, honourable fellow Members, because Népszabadság belonged to the MSZP. They sold it. [[Miklós Soltész: You are villains!]] First, a Swiss investor and 27 percent were held to the Free Press Foundation, which was a foundation founded by the MSZP, and then sold this card to a financial investor a year ago. [[Zoltán Grimlock: You're lying! That's not what we sold! Agnes Kunhalmi: Talk about Harry Potter! Zoltán Grimlock: They were terrified of prison!]] The question arises: where is the money? Why didn't you like to give the proceeds to the operation of Népszabadság? On the other hand, excuse me, fellow Members, where does the Népszabadság issue come in importance and severity to the country's cause? To the nation's cause? [[Agnes Kunhalmi: What you disagree with is not! Miklós Soltész: That's right!]] But if the Népszabadság case was more important to you, you would have liked not to sell it! You must account for the left, the left intellectual; the MSZP has sealed the fate of its own party page. [[Miklós Soltész: That's who you are. A round of applause from the ruling parties.]] I would add that history has always been the case: the independence of the country and their freedom were far less important to them than the case of some party papers. Jobbik has previously stated that they are in favour of the amendment to the basic law, and even themselves have initiated an amendment to the basic law. In this sense, I think it is safe to say that it will now be possible to join the new unity here in Parliament and to say that we should defend Hungary. [[Z. Kárpát, Dániel: You also prevented the judicial committee from meeting at the expense of house violations.]] Mr. President. Dear House, Of course, the amendment to the basic law can only take place if there are countless negotiations to prevent it. [[Lajos Korózs: Disagree!]] The Fidesz faction initiated a five-party, intergroup consultation tomorrow at two o'clock, and, of course, we expect any factions who are seriously interested in the country's freedom. And the President of the Fidesz also initiated private meetings with the Presidents of the opposition party and the President of the KDNP; in the case of LMP, this will be between the two parties, because the LMP does not have one, but has two presidents at the same time, but this cannot be a barrier to negotiation. We would like to ask everyone to rise once in life, taking as an example of 3 million 360,000 people of the electorate, and to join forces in the national case for Hungary. [[Zoltán Grimlock: Go to New Zealand! A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2016-10-10-22	Once again, I give the floor to Secretary of State Csaba Dömötör. Here you go.
u2016-10-10-23	Thank you very much. Dear House, The referendum of 2 October really created a new situation. A new unity has been created for Hungary; it is a community whose members want a strong Europe, but not at the expense of the nation states. A community that says that Hungarians cannot be bypassed on a matter that determines our future for decades, such as in the case of resettlement. It's a community that wasn't formed on the basis of party sympathy. This new national unity, I think, obliges all public actors, all parliamentary parties. It is not possible to circumvent the fact that 98 percent of those who expressed their views refused the Brussels resettlement plans. Brussels cannot, by the way, ignore the word of 3.3 million people. The referendum is not the end of something, it is the beginning of a story. This also means that there is a great deal of work to be done for the government here at home and abroad. The Prime Minister therefore informed the President of the European Commission about the outcome of the referendum and therefore agreed on the same subject with Robert Fico, the President-in-Office of the EU, the Prime Minister of Slovakia. [[13.50]] As far as domestic affairs are concerned, the government is today submitting a proposal to Parliament on the amendment of the basic law. This amendment serves to prevent group resettlement to Hungary by circumventing the National Assembly. Since it is indeed the future of the country, I also consider it important that all parliamentary parties take part in the discussions on this matter. This amendment is important because the European Commission has made it clear that, if it is up to it, it would speed up the implementation of resettlement programmes, and this has been confirmed by the majority of the European Parliament on the left hand with the votes of socialist Members. Thus, the Member States must now stand up to them. That's what the fundamental law amendment is all about. As far as the statements made in Brussels after the referendum were concerned, we were somewhat shocked to hear statements that many referendums could lead to Europe falling apart. We think the opposite, by the way. What weakens Europe is the Union's failure to see European emergency signals on the most fundamental issues. The proposal for a constitutional amendment is a good opportunity for all parliamentary parties to finally pursue a policy that is in line with the Hungarians' will, which is in line with 98 percent's opinion. If you do not take advantage of this opportunity and do not support the prohibition of group resettlement, you will continue the worst left-wing traditions [[Lajos Korózs: Sit down! Do you have to listen to this?]] and turn their backs not only on their own voters, but also on the country as a whole. So I'm asking you not to do this... [[Lajos Korózs, turning to the president, did you see what I said? Do you hear that?]]
u2016-10-10-24	I see it! I can hear you. [[Lajos Korózs: Do I have to listen to this?]] Yeah, I have to. [[Defiance from the ranks of the MSZP.]]
u2016-10-10-25	...and support the government's proposal to amend the Constitution, finally take the side of the new national unity. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-10-10-26	Excuse me, Secretary of State, for interrupting through a microphone, but my fellow socialists asked me if you had to listen, and I told them that you had to. In fact, the only way they can avoid it is if they go out and we can negotiate more calmly. [[Moore in the ranks of the MSZP. Interventions from the ranks of the MSZP: We love the Secretary of State who has not been elected by anyone! Parliament has become one-party! Ágnes Kunhalmi: When can the parties withdraw?]] Dear Parliament, [[Moore in the ranks of the MSZP. Agnes Kunhalmi: Is this Parliament?]] Dear Parliament, Look, Congresswoman, it's particularly bad for the ladies to yell. Not for my sake, but for the respect of the rest of Parliament. [[Moore in the ranks of the MSZP.]] I ask you to stop yelling and let Parliament work in peace. [[Ágnes Kunhalmi: Is that what Parliament is?]] Congresswoman, stop yelling! It looks bad on you, believe me, from where I'm standing. [[Delight and applause in the pro-government benches. Moore in the ranks of the MSZP. Agnes Kunhalmi: He has always been famous for his intelligence!]] Well, honourable Parliament, we would like to continue our work against the will of the socialist Members. We have reached the end of the speeches before the agenda. I would now like to ask Mr Dezső Liberty to present the speakers who are not on the agenda.
u2016-10-10-27	Dear Parliament, Zoltán Magyar, Jobbik applied for a speech after the agenda today; Sebestyén Vágó, Jobbik; Balázs Ander, Jobbik. On Tuesday, the following representatives applied for a speech before the agenda: Erzsébet Schmuck, LMP; Gergely Bárándy, MSZP; László Lukács, Jobbik; Miklós Soltész, KDNP; János Pócs, Fidesz. Dániel Z. Kárpát, Jobbik; Ildikó Bangóné Borbély, MSZP; Anita Heringes, MSZP; György Lukács, Jobbik. On Wednesday, Dániel Z. Kárpát, Jobbik; Erzsébet Schmuck, LMP; R. Benedek Sallai, LMP.On Friday, Dániel Z. Kárpát, Jobbik; Zoltán Magyar, Jobbik; R. Benedek Sallai, LMP.
u2016-10-10-28	Dear Parliament, The agenda for our meeting starting today is coming up. We shall decide on the agenda, on the basis of a proposal put forward by the President for the duration of the meeting. For the first time, we are deciding on proposals for a derogation from house rules. The House Committee initiates that on the day of the meeting of the Parliament on 24 October it departs from the house rules in such a way that Lászlóné Csúcs, a Polish minority spokesperson, may speak on the occasion of the year of Hungarian-Polish solidarity, for a maximum period of five minutes, before deciding on the agenda proposal. Proposal for a derogation from house rules H/12405. can also be found on the website. I ask the House whether it agrees to derogate from the house rules. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I find that the House has supported the removal from house rules by 151 votes in favour, unanimously. The proposal put forward by the President initiates the National Assembly to act as the H/12350 on the national referendum. In the course of the discussion of the resolution proposal No.3 the House rules should be so that the final vote can be held on tomorrow's sitting. This proposal is addressed to H/12350/1. You can read it on the website. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it agrees to derogate from the house rules. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I note that the House does not support a derogation from house rules by 109 votes in favour, 44 votes against and 44 votes against. The second proposal put forward by the President initiates the National Assembly to act as the H/12351 on the national referendum. In the course of the discussion of the resolution proposal No.3 the House rules should be so that the final vote can be held on tomorrow's sitting. This proposal is addressed to H/12351/1. You can read it on the website. I am asking this House whether it supports the proposal to derogate from house rules. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I find that the House has repeatedly not supported the proposal for a derogation from house rules by 111 votes in favour, 44 votes against. The Government initiated the Parliament's special procedure to discuss the 2003 XCII on the rules of taxation. T/12450. Submitted by the European Parliament and the Council pursuant to Article 1 (2) of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011. The Government has initiated the possibility of submitting amendments until the third hour after the decision on the exceptional procedure has been taken; the consolidated debate and the decision on the summary amendment proposal and the final vote will take place on tomorrow's meeting. Dear House, Rule 62 of the House Rules Pursuant to Article 1 (1) of the Act, the Parliament shall decide on the hearing in exceptional proceedings without debate. I would like to draw your attention to the need for a vote in favour of more than half of the Members, that is to say, 100 Members. So I ask this House whether T/12450 is accepted. Submitted in exceptional proceedings pursuant to the national motion. Please vote. [[Vote.]] The Parliament shall decide on the hearing in exceptional proceedings without debate pursuant to paragraph 1 of this Article. I would like to draw your attention to the need for a vote in favour of more than half of the Members, that is to say, 100 Members. So I ask this House whether T/12450 is accepted. Submitted in exceptional proceedings pursuant to the national motion. Please vote. (Vote.) I find that the House has accepted the motion to negotiate the proposal in exceptional proceedings by 112 votes in favour, 44 votes against. In this way, it is possible to submit amendments for 16 hours 58 minutes. The consolidated debate on the bill will take place on tomorrow's meeting as the first item on the agenda, the decision on the draft amendment and the final vote on tomorrow's meeting. Dear Parliament, We are now deciding on the proposals to amend the agenda. The MSZP group proposed that the Parliament should be T/10727 on the amendment of certain compensation laws sent back by the President of the Republic. Do not begin the trial of Law No 1 at its meeting starting today. Anyone who agrees with that, give me a raise. [[Vote.]] I find that the visible majority of Parliament has not accepted the proposal. The Fidesz Group has proposed that decisions be taken at the earliest from 13 a.m. on the day of the Parliament's meeting tomorrow. Anyone who agrees with that, please vote by raising your hands. [[Vote.]] I find that the visible majority of this House has accepted the proposal. Dear House, The Fidesz Group has proposed that B/11064 on further Hungarian military engagement in the Mali Training Operation of the European Union. 1st report and H/12221 on its adoption The joint general debate of the resolution proposal shall take place as the first item on the Wednesday meeting of the Parliament until the closure. Anyone who agrees with that, please indicate by raising your hands. [[Vote.]] Thank you. I find that the visible majority of this House has accepted the proposal. We are now deciding on a proposal on the agenda put forward by the President. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts the recommendation on the agenda with the amendments adopted above. Please vote by raising your hands. [[Vote.]] Thank you. I note that the visible majority of this House has adopted the agenda. [[14.00]] Dear Parliament, In the absence of a committee agreement, we are now deciding on the Commission's discussion and decision-making. According to the proposal put forward by the President, the Parliament is the Parliament's report on the activities of the Committee of National Remembrance in 2015 B/12105. The designated committee shall be invited to take its decision. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether the designated Judicial Committee will be invited by B/12105. for a decision to be taken on this proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I find that the House has adopted the proposal by 112 votes to 39, with no abstentions. It is now time for a decision on a personal proposal. I would like to ask Mr Lajos Szűcs to present the S/1244. The content of the personal proposal.
u2016-10-10-29	Dear Parliament, 1. 13/2014 on the establishment of parliamentary committees, the election of its officials and members. Section 1 of the parliamentary decision is amended as follows: the Parliament elects Dr. Gábor Staudt, Vice-President of the Committee to the Judicial Committee. 2. Point 1 of the Parliamentary Decision is amended as follows: in the Economic Committee, the Vice-President of Mr Dániel Z. Kárpát, Jobbik, will cease to hold his post as a member of the Committee. 3. This Decision shall enter into force on the date of its adoption.
u2016-10-10-30	I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it will accept the S/1244. Number 1 personal proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare that the House has adopted the personal proposal with 152 unanimous votes in favour. Dear Parliament, Now, at 2:14 a.m., we move on to interpellation and immediate questions and questions. Sándor Burány, a representative of the MSZP, has submitted an interpellation to the Minister of National Economy: It's an address. The congressman has the floor.
u2016-10-10-31	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, On the basis of the government's proposal, Fidesz amended the excise duty law in such a way that the price of fuels would increase from October 2016 because if the world market price for oil fell below $50, a tax increase would automatically take place. The step makes it unduly difficult for Hungarian families, Hungarian businesses, to take away even the minimum savings that the lower oil price would leave for people. Moreover, the tax increase was clearly premeditated, and the government planned the 2017 budget at a price of just 42 dollars. It is no coincidence that the less favourable of the $40 and $50 thresholds offered to Parliament, so to speak, were accepted. This immediately increased the consumer price of petrol by 6 forints and 13 forints of diesel. Even though the MSZP has submitted a bill to withdraw the tax increase, this bill has not yet been included in the series of articles by the Economic Committee. Dear Secretary of State, Even in opposition, Fidesz broke a spear at a much lower price. Around 2004 they demanded a tax reduction at an oil price of $40, but under $50 they were raising taxes on government. The increase in petrol prices continued and continues, even today. At the end of 2011, HUF 16 was raised on private gas oil excise duty and, at the beginning of 2012, the 25 per cent VAT was raised to 27 per cent of Europe's record. You have justified the tax increase by requiring additional revenue from the budget. If that's the case, if that's the case, I'll ask you, are you collecting for another helicopter trip? - if you understand, Mr. Secretary, what I mean. [[István Szilárd Németh: Jaaaj!]] I'm waiting for your answer.
u2016-10-10-32	I give the floor to the Secretary of State, András Tállai. Here you go.
u2016-10-10-33	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, If I were in the position of the Hungarian Socialist Party, I wouldn't be as humorous as at the end of his interpellation. [[Interviews from the lines of the MSZP: Funny? This is serious. Zoltán Grimlock: This is bloody serious!]] their support is at an unprecedented depth, and, as I read, it is only decreasing weekly; it is no wonder that you have taken a position in relation to the referendum which is contrary to your own voters. [[Zoltán Grimlock: He talked about the tax increase! And the fact that he wouldn't accept ours! Interviews from the ranks of the MSZP.]] If so demanded, then let us turn to the government's tax policy, the Fidesz-KDNP government's tax policy, which has one point: tax burden must be reduced, the burden on families and businesses must be reduced. In particular, a noticeable reduction in income taxes should be achieved, while more tax revenues should be allocated to the budget through the whitening of the economy in the area of turnover and consumption taxes. The government fulfilled this maximum; it fulfilled it, since in 2010 the tax burden on GDP was 41 percent, according to data from one and a half to two years ago, 39 percent. We have significant results in reducing the personal income tax burden, since, in addition to the introduction of a single-key tax system, we now have a 15 percent personal income tax rate, which is lower in Europe, in the European Union only in one country than in Hungary. This leaves some HUF 3600 billion in the taxpayers' pocket from 2010 with increasing family tax incentives. However, we have also achieved significant results in reducing the rate of general sales taxes, and I believe that the basic food has received or will be subject to VAT of 5%, including the VAT of pigmeat, eggs, fresh milk, but also restaurant catering will be placed under a reduced rate from 1 January 2017. In total, the Fidesz-KDNP government was able to achieve a significant tax reduction over the six years of its operation. As regards the increase in the rate of excise duty, yes, the Government has initiated a change in the rate of excise duty linked to the world market, but I would like to tell you that Hungary is still in place in an international comparison with the rate of excise duty. [[Dr. Bertalan Tóth: People at the gas station feel better!]] For example, the rate of excise duty is 18 percent higher in the Czech Republic, 26 per cent in Croatia, 15 per cent in Romania, 38 per cent in Slovakia and 37 per cent higher in Slovenia compared to increased excise duty rates - so I am talking about excise duty on petrol. The fact that entrepreneurs are adversely affected is simply not true, since they can claim back the excise duty on gas oil. All in all, the government has reached its goal. [[Dr. Bertalan Tóth: How expensive gas is!]] : Hungary's tax burden would be significantly reduced. If I may, I would like to discuss your tax policy in these 40 seconds. [[Zoltán Grimlock: No one wants to hear that!]] Don't forget that you've been in government for eight years. [[Dr. Bertalan Tóth: You've been governing for six years.]] And in eight years, some taxes have been significantly increased, among other things - I say the most painful to the Hungarian families, perhaps - you have abolished the family tax relief for single and two children, or you have significantly increased the rate of the overall turnover tax. [[Zoltán Gőgös: But the minimum wage was tax-free!]] So, when you're asking for it, [[Dr. Bertalan Tóth: 27 percent VAT!]] from the current government to increase the rates, then I think that your question [[Interviews from the ranks of the MSZP. The president's ringing the bell.]] Having examined the tax policy of left-wing governments, it immediately becomes uncredited. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-10-10-34	I give the floor to Congressman Sándor Burány in return. Here you go.
u2016-10-10-35	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, You've been doing practically the only thing you've done in the last few minutes, I see what you've done. [[There's a grumble in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] I realize that this is going well, but frankly, I would have liked you to answer my simply asked question for a few minutes at your disposal, that while in the Fidesz opposition you demanded a tax reduction at a price of $40, why, at an oil price of $50, you are raising excise duty. However, he has simply been unable to answer this question in the last few minutes, Mr Secretary; we expected a better performance even in your case. [[Defiance and interruptions in the ranks of the MSZP.]] I understand that, now that the party barons are multiplying in the government, this disturbs many, apparently disturbing your coach, and I would like you to give a straight answer to direct questions in the future. [[14.10]] And as far as our government is concerned, we have raised the family allowance. [[Rushing from the benches of the governing parties.]] and the minimum wage was tax-free [[The president's ringing the bell.]] Unlike your current administration. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2016-10-10-36	From what the congressman said, I've come to the conclusion that he didn't accept the answer. [[Sándor Burány: You can see that, Mr President. Dr. László Kács: Good conclusion!]] 'Cause he forgot to answer that. So I ask this House whether it accepts the Secretary of State's reply. Please vote. [[Vote.]] The House adopted the answer by 108 votes to 32, with no abstentions. Gergely Farkas, representative of Jobbik, has submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Human Resources:, How is it possible that it took the Government 4 years to see that the National Basics Plan has led to the overload and evisceration of children? It's an address. Congressman's got the floor, please.
u2016-10-10-37	Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, Although the Government had promised to change the National Basic Training Plan by 2018, recently you, Secretary of State László Palkovics, spoke about the fact that the new National Basic Training Plan will be effective only from the 2019 academic year. We know that this is a very serious task, which requires thoroughness and caution, but we cannot accept that students will have to learn from the current NAT, which will result in an overload for another year. Dear Secretary of State, How is it possible that after four years you have not realized that the current amount of teaching material in the National Basics Plan is too much for both students and teachers? In recent years, problems have been ignored, which everyone has been aware of. As long as Jobbik, many professional organisations and even teachers have been stressing the need for rethinking for years, the government has denied the problem. We have often said that the unworkable amount of the curriculum and the disproportionately high hours result in overload, which affects both students and teachers. László Székely, Commissioner for Fundamental Rights, pointed out in a report that it would be important to carry out a comprehensive examination of the burden on students. I would also like to draw your attention to the reports of the student parlaments, from which the point is also revealed. Most complaints are about overworked students. Due to the five weekly physical education classes and other changes, some schools have made amazing schedules. A sophomore student sometimes has seven hours a day and 27 hours a week. It's 27 hours in second grade. But a 15-16-year-old high school student spends up to 40 hours a week at school. In such circumstances, do you think it is possible, in addition, to prepare for graduations, to do leisure, special-hour activities, to play sports or even to perform the required voluntary hours? Dear Secretary of State, It is clearly your responsibility that the new NAT has been overloading students for years. Not only did you not hear the words of the president of Jobbik, but for example the National Pedagogist Faculty, that not only the amount of homework can cause problems for children, but the mandatory hours are also high in Hungarian public education. In fact, it makes the situation worse, that when we got to the point where teachers expressed their dissatisfaction, among other things because of the overload, you didn't tell them to lie that teachers are only on the street because they want a raise. Dear Secretary of State, When are you going to apologize to the students, the teachers, because for years, you didn't dare accept that you oversized the National Basics? When are you going to apologize for your own pride over the overload of students? Why are they unable to keep the 2018 target date for the introduction of the new NAT? Thus, they cause the situation of immeasurably large amounts of teaching material being poured on students for another year. I look forward to your substantive answer. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2016-10-10-38	I give the floor to Secretary of State László Palkovics.
u2016-10-10-39	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, Honourable Congressman, I think it is obvious to you, too, when you talk about the National Basic Lesson Plan, the hours defined by the National Basic Lesson Plan are only a certain part of the total number of hours, and this is based on the master's masterpieces, and it is based on the hours derived from the local curriculum defined by the school. That's how they put together the load he was actually talking about. The fact that the government didn't know that, I think, the work of the last nine months proves exactly what it did, and it was the first among the tasks of the public education round table, how we could change that. The intention of the government to change this is not enough, it is not enough to reform the National Basics Plan, but we really need consensus with schools, teachers and parents so that we can really transform this. This is due to the fact that a working group has been set up to revise the National Basic Training Plan in 2019. Professionals are sitting in it, and professionals are of the opinion that this work cannot be done in such a short period of time. That is why the government said that we would like to listen to the opinions of professionals and leave so much time to do so that a basic curriculum is actually created that eliminates in part the high clock load you have mentioned and eliminates the shortcomings that we have identified together. So I think it's not in anyone's best interest to rush, because if that happens, it's going to come up on your part as to why we're rushing into this case. I think it's very important to consider the opinions of professionals, they're experts. As regards the burden of students, the reduction of their load, as of September of this year, you obviously know this very well, a system has been put in place in which the system's players, teachers, who are the most educated about how their students are overloading, are free to decide what they weigh, what they leave behind, how far their study group, their class, is progressing. We have created the conditions for this. The educational development research institute has developed a so-called flexible course for practically every curriculum, which the educator is free to decide whether to undertake and otherwise develop his own education system accordingly. I think this is an opportunity to increase the freedom of teachers to this extent. This will lead to a reduction in children's burden. A specific thing in class 1, 2 is the 27 hours you mentioned. It's not NAT, it's the total number of hours from the three parts mentioned above. In the 1st and 2nd classes, teachers were allowed to have a 45-minute size, not a 45-minute size, but only 30 minutes. Let teachers, teachers, tell them that if they see how their group is burdened, they can say after 30 minutes that they are dealing with someone else and that they are trying to achieve the educational goal in a different way. With these measures, I think, in the coming period, teachers have decided that there is a real possibility of reducing the clock load substantially. Thank you. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2016-10-10-40	I'll give the floor back to the congressman in return. Here you go.
u2016-10-10-41	Dear Secretary of State, Your situation is extremely ungrateful, because you have to take responsibility for something that occurred at a time when you were not the Secretary of State. Nevertheless, you should have started your answer, not because of me, but because of the students and teachers involved, by apologizing for not caring about this problem for four years, listening not only to Jobbik, but to the voice of professional organisations, teachers, student interest organisations and not taking timely action with this problem. You said that in the last 9 months; yes, in the last 9 months the house has been so burned down, the problem was so great that you have already dealt with it, but this problem has been ongoing since 2013 and we have also said so many times in Parliament. Besides, you should have reviewed NAT every five years. If you had begun to prepare for this in time, you would not be able to say that there is not enough time to do so, and because of your mistake, the students will be burdened for another year, and for another year there will be no time for activities that are essential for a young person's life. I cannot accept your answer, Your Honour. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2016-10-10-42	The congressman didn't accept the answer. I ask the House whether it accepts it. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I find that the House has accepted the reply by 110 votes in favour, 29 against and no abstentions. Before I give the floor to Mrs Schmuck Erzsébet, who will say the following interpellation, allow me to take this opportunity here to stone this House. I did not give the floor to Congresswoman Bernadett Wind last week. The Prime Minister's speech before the agenda was not given the opportunity to reply personally, with a legitimate reference to the fact that he was not elected deputy leader of the LMP faction. So I didn't make a mistake. On the other hand, Ms Erzsébet Schmuck complained at the next House Committee meeting that I was not consistent, because, in their previous memory, I gave the floor to MP Miklós Soltész in similar circumstances, despite the fact that he was also not the deputy group leader of KDNP at the time. We have looked into it, and she is right in fact, this happened on 21 September 2015, also in the debate on a speech before the Prime Minister's agenda. [[14.20]] So for this latter reason, that neither I nor my colleagues had noticed that I could not speak to Miklós Soltés, so I apologize subsequently for this mistake, and we will try to apply the same standard in the future. In this case, the error was not intentional, but was the result of a mistake, for which I also apologize to the LMP faction in particular once more. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]] I now give the floor to Erzsébet Schmuck, who has submitted an interpellation to the Minister of the Prime Minister of János Lázár Prime Minister's Office. It's an address. Congresswoman's got the floor.
u2016-10-10-43	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Minister, Perhaps Minister also knows that these are difficult times for those who want to find EU funds for their social activities. The problems start with the terms of the tender. Support for the EFOP 1.2.2.15 youth programmes was required to ensure that the organisation's balance sheet was not negative for two consecutive years. Many organisations were unable to do this precisely because of late payments in the previous funding cycle, i.e. they were excluded from the tender. It's amazing when the office punishes applicants for their own mistakes. The next problem is to change the deadlines. The deadline for administration has been amended four times for the KEHOP 5.4.1 approach-forming programmes, and resources have always been reduced to 2-4 days prior to administration, and finally to the fifth time. This has made it impossible to plan the work of applicants. It may not be surprising if the target group remembers that they are messing with us. Content changes are also common. The TOP 1.2.1.15 Social and environmental sustainable tourism development proposal has also been amended four times in one and a half months, two times more than thirty points. The last amendment was one day before the deadline for administration. But in the same way, the EFOP 1.2.1.15, a safety net for families, and a number of other examples could be mentioned. Unfortunately, the changes are not limited. The applicant has full power in this case, as a government decree guarantees the right to change, i.e. the law guarantees the irregularity. Then comes the evaluation of the proposal, which can be pushed almost unlimitedly. While all small mistakes, minutes of slippages on the part of applicants are severely retaliated, there is no consequence of the errors, slippages and damaging behaviour of the office. Small applicants do not have the resources to provide care and pay the extra risk. In many cases, they should spend more money on an uncertain tender than they can hope for. But their work, their mission, may depend on it. All of this is not the fault of the exhibitors, the application staff, the government that does not reduce complexity and provides evenly predictable resources, does not respect its own deadline and commitments. It's like Augias' stables. It harms applicants, even destroying them. This irresponsible activity, Minister, can't go on like this. If they can't stop the constant changes, at least be good for the damage they've caused. I'm looking forward to your reply.
u2016-10-10-44	I give the floor to Minister to answer. Here you go.
u2016-10-10-45	Mr President, Dear Parliament, Thank you very much for your question, my honourable fellow Member. I would like to start by saying that I hope that we will find an opportunity to discuss the problems and difficulties raised, when, as we have promised, we are launching a debate day on behalf of the Government on the fate of EU funds that can be used between 2014 and 20 and on the way in which we use them. To raise the LMP fraction, I prepared a quarterly report, which I intend to send to all my fellow Members in Parliament, in which we will give a detailed account of the financial situation and the state of commitments. First of all, I would like to report to the Parliament that Hungary has 8900 billion forints available between 2014 and 20; in one year, against 60 percent of the previous three-and-a-half-year period - so we have announced 60 percent of the 8900 billion forints in the past three and a half years - 71 percent of the HUF 8900 billion is available, and 71 percent of the HUF 8900 billion is also available, and a commitment of HUF 3500 billion has been made. By the end of March 2017, the full framework will be available to all Hungarian applicants. In the past, the tender has been open for many years, and Hungary has launched applications even in December 2015, almost ten years after the opening of the 2007 application cycle. This cannot happen again, so the common goal of the Government and Parliament is to open the development frameworks as soon as possible. So, first of all, there's a time pressure to make money available as soon as possible, that's in everyone's best interests. There is a major debate in Europe on the fate of cohesion money, and the slower and more difficult we draw these funds, the more dangerous they are for those who claim the use of these funds as net contributors and try to prove that these common funds do not make sense and need them. So the government is constantly under pressure from the European Commission to make a quick announcement. Today, we are among the first of the V4s, with 20 percent more money than the Czech Republic behind us. We have also changed the way in which the call for proposals is to be drawn up. I understand, accept, and accept most of the comments that my fellow Member is saying, but I would like to draw your attention to the fact that we are paying particular attention to ensuring that there is a broad social consultation before calls for proposals, and that everyone can see and have access to the tender for 30 days after the application is published. We have eliminated the applicants from this system, there is no additional advantage that an applicant can provide, whether it is a civil society organisation, a local government or an economic enterprise. I would also like to draw your attention to the fact that we have abolished the previously opaque tender evaluation system, today there is a fully transparent tender evaluation system, 2300 state officials assess the applications in a selection system that can be fully followed and take responsibility on the basis of the evaluation and evaluation of the proposals. I have said these things, my fellow Member, because I would like you to see that the government is doing everything it can to open the funds as soon as possible, to have a greater social consensus on the content of the calls for proposals. And, yes, we will also amend it after that, because we would like to see that if there were no money stuck in there for the last period, there would not be unused resources, but that the resources which are open to Hungary should also be made available to civilians, municipalities and businesses as soon as possible. That is why there is a quarterly conciliation mechanism with the Chamber of Industry and Trade; that is why there are social conciliation committees before calls for proposals; that is why there is a continuous consultation with local government associations, such as the calls for proposals for the Territorial Operational Programme. There will still be amendments, even after the application is launched, because our aim is to get all the money to the beneficiaries, despite the bureaucratic conditions dictated by the European Union. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2016-10-10-46	I ask Mrs Group leader if she will accept the Minister's reply.
u2016-10-10-47	No, I cannot accept Minister's reply. Probably Minister did not pay enough attention to what I said: the main problem of smaller organisations is not that applications are not opened, but the problem is that they are changing them from day to day in all aspects, making them unpredictable, practically excluding smaller organisations from this option. What I can say to Minister, what I have seen is that after the change of regime, the environmental and environmental green movement in Hungary was the most organised and functioning movement at European level, and this movement is now practically falling apart, thanks to the lack of domestic resources, and there is no real possibility of access to European Union funds. And that's not an answer to what the Minister said, that they're trying to squeeze out all the money. If this really happens and is not properly prepared, then not only the small ones, but the big ones will not be able to access it either. Thank you.
u2016-10-10-48	Congresswoman didn't accept the answer. I ask this House whether they will accept the Minister's reply. Please vote. [[Vote.]] The House adopted the answer by 111 votes to 28, with no abstentions. Dear Parliament, László Kucsák, representative of Fidesz, submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Human Resources with the title " Sport Become Yours!" Congressman's got the floor.
u2016-10-10-49	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, It is memorable that in the course of Ferenc Gyurcsány's prime minister's activities, one of the first decisions of the first Orbán government, and later, as a minister - with the cooperation of Attila Mesterházy and György Szilvásy - ended the sports ministry established by Ferenc Gyurcsány. He could do all of this, since his empire had grown well by then, he no longer needed the sports wallet, for for example, according to the news at that time, he was still a sports minister in order to obtain part of the autumn government resort, which he later hired with the state. [[14.30]] We should not forget about the expansion of the pioneering camp in Csillebérc, which was perhaps one of the most dirty cases of the change of regime, and with which not only the Hungarian state was damaged by the former persons near MSZP or MSZP, but also the Hungarian children who wanted to camp and relax. In contrast to the above policy, Fidesz-KDNP always places great emphasis on the sport of children and adults. Playing sports for young people, and let the sport be yours! It is also supported by a program. The Secretary of State for Sport of the Ministry of Human Resources launched in January 2015 as part of the National Sports Development Concept. It's a program. During the first year of the programme, which started with the coordination of the Hungarian Student Sports Association, ten national sports associations were involved from the various visual team sports and the so-called flagship sports. Three additional sports associations were included in the programme in 2016. Swimming, kayak kenu and karate are new. The main objective of the programme is to promote the integration of sport throughout the country into children's everyday lives, thus helping to increase the base for the participating sports associations. The programme also supports school physical activity through the development of sport equipment in public education institutions, where in most cases local associations use a sports demonstration to attract children's attention to their sports opportunities. Another objective of the programme is to ensure that the number of athletes certified in participating sports reaches 500 thousand people in Hungary. The main aim of this exercise programme is to ensure that children learn and try as much sport as possible and to interact with associations in the vicinity of their place of residence, thus increasing the replacement base for domestic sports. Dear Secretary of State, Taking into account the above and what has been said, I ask you what results you have in the sport should be yours! It's a program. I'm looking forward to your reply. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-10-10-50	I give the floor to Secretary of State Savolt-Szabó Tünde. Here you go.
u2016-10-10-51	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, In 2010, the civil Hungarian government was confronted with an unworthy state of public health, as, in terms of sports habits, we were the hosts of the European Union, because only 5 percent of the population regularly played sports, about 75 percent of the young people of compulsory age only did any sport activity in the framework of physical education classes, and the institutional system of sports has been permanently destroyed, and the level of state aid has fallen to unprecedented depths. This situation required immediate intervention and, at the same time, a long-term forward-looking action. The first steps included the introduction of daily physical education at school. As of September last year, more than 1 million children regularly play sports in the framework of everyday movement. After that, we started last January with the help of the Hungarian Student Sports Association. A program where by presenting sports disciplines in public education institutions we promote the choice of sports for children, and by developing sports equipment, we also contribute to the sport activities of school-age children. The programme is based on three pillars. As part of the first pillar, we organize sports shows across the country with the help of sports associations and local associations, where nearly 15,000 children have participated so far. The second pillar is a sport that goes to students with a password, where sports shows are held in schools by professionals. During the previous school year, 230 institutions had such presentations, and we could reach nearly 70,000 children. The third pillar of the programme is the placement of sports equipment in public education institutions on the basis of cooperation between sports associations and schools. The success of the programme is clear, so this year, three more sports have joined the ten previous sports, as we have heard, so that we can help children to sport as widely as possible through the necessary equipment packages. This year's opening event was held at the MOM Sports Centre in Budapest, where thousands of children were able to participate and successfully contribute to the results. The athletes who joined this event became role models, and with them we can bring the love of sport even closer to the children. Seven other events will take place this year, with an additional 6,000 children waiting for. So far, a total of 989 public education institutions have received asset packages, of which the number of public schools is 771, and the number of institutions with other reservations is 218. With the programme that has been launched in recent years, we will also help the objectives that we have heard from the Member so that 500 thousand athletes are registered in Hungary. The Ministry of Human Resources, the sport is yours! The programme was supported by HUF 725 million last year and this year. We will continue and support the programme next year, as our goal is for children to learn and try as much sport as possible, thus increasing the number of young people who regularly play sports and expanding the base for sports. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, Please accept my reply. Thank you. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-10-10-52	I give the floor to Congressman László Kucsák in return.
u2016-10-10-53	Thank you for the floor. Dear Secretary of State, Thank you for what you said, and for my part, I can only confirm it. It was said that the three pillars involved 15 thousand, 70,000 and thousands of children, which is close to 100,000 people, which in itself is impressive. In my constituency, it's the 18th. This was also the case in the district, there was a great event in connection with the development of tools, where we could try some sports ourselves. So I can only encourage the government to continue with this programme, because it is very good, very useful, loved by children, loved by young people, and we know that they are the key to our future, so we must pay attention to this matter. You can see how different this approach is from what it used to be in the Gyurcsány-Bajna era. I wish you every success in achieving these goals. For the sake of all of us, I respectfully accept the answer. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-10-10-54	Dear Parliament, László Varga, representative of the MSZP, submitted an interpellation to the Minister for National Development:. What is the reality of the promised developments? It's an address. The congressman has the floor.
u2016-10-10-55	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, In 2015 the programme "Modern Cities" was launched, in the past year and a half, and in parallel, a number of investments and additional development were announced and promises were made. They have been to twenty settlements, but there is very little to see in addition to the promises, there is a lot of silence about the programme. There were many similarities between the programmes here, so obviously the Prime Minister signed an agreement with the mayor of the settlement, where appropriate new industrial parks, their expansion, the construction of a swimming pool, a sports hall and the development of the motorway network. All signs suggest that either the government has not thought this promise package through properly, or that it does not want to achieve quite simply part of it. In the Hungarian Gazette of 29 July, several planned investments were decided to be stopped, as well as that investments should be made from European Union funds as much as possible. Last week, an article on the Népszabadság, which has been abolished since then, revealed that the European Commission also envisaged the suspension of some HUF 9 billion of EU development money in a letter; obviously, because of the abuse of EU proposals, these are key issues. It would be nice to have the money spent on real improvements, not necessarily serving the clientship. Due to the lack of resources, many improvements are therefore threatening to fail. This is the case in Miskolc and in my constituency, where the intermodal node, otherwise promised, would be supplemented locally by the construction of the Y Bridge and the relocation of the trail of Highway No. 3, thus the relief of the inner city. It can be said that the beneficial effects of the intermodal node will be greatly reduced if these other two improvements are not implemented. I would also like to say that this could cause huge plugs in peak periods around the future intermodal node if these improvements were not implemented. So Miskolc would really need these improvements, but every county-righted city needs what you promised. The question is, therefore, which investments will be missed, which will be carried out late under the programme "Modern Cities" (Modern Cities). [[14.40]] I'd like to ask you, Secretary of State, what will really happen to the construction of the Y Bridge in Miskolc, and what will happen to the transfer of the trail of Highway 3. Can this idea be realized, and if so, when? I'm looking forward to your reply. Thank you, Mr. President.
u2016-10-10-56	I give the floor to Secretary of State of Tasó. Here you go.
u2016-10-10-57	Honourable Congressman, In August 2014, the Government of Hungary decided on the directions for the development of transport, including the development of county-righted cities and county settlements. There is obviously the city of Miskolc, with which, according to the agreement, the Hungarian government can make very serious investments together. These include another important area, apart from the construction of motorway connections, which you mentioned, the creation of intermodal centres. In the concept, which was born in August 2014, the Hungarian Government made it clear that the expansion of public transport must continue to grow, at least to maintain its share in the field of transport. This is why such intermodal centres are important, and here in Miskolc, in Government Resolution 1147 it is clear that HUF 7.5 billion is guaranteed in terms of the establishment of the centre. What is important, however, is that we continue to look at the related investment line needed to build the Intermodal Centre of Kandó Square. Indeed, the construction of the Y Bridge and the relocation of Highway 3 are linked to the intermodal centre. It also includes, among other things, the arrangement of the Szinva stream basin or the Szinva coast landscaping, spatial planning, but also the renovation of the railway station. And indeed, it would have a rather serious cost impact on these two investments. Now the city of Miskolc and the state investment company and our departments are looking at how the Hungarian government can add resources for a longer period of time. About HUF 12.5 billion is planned for the transfer of main road number 3, about HUF 4.5 billion for the construction of the Y Bridge, HUF 7.5 billion is provided in the ÉFK for the intermodal centre, which is HUF 24 billion. So it's important to put the source together, put it together, and it's not a simple story. The fact is that in Hungary, the government has just adopted the HUF 2463 billion package, which will enable major investments in the field of road development in Hungary. We managed to prepare it for two years, it took two years to prepare these investments. It is possible to start implementing all of them. This year, many will start and even start. And what is certain is that out of the HUF 2763 billion HUF 1249 billion will be insured from domestic sources. That's a huge amount. By 2022, the Hungarian government undertook to provide HUF 1249 billion. The investments that will be carried out on the tied track and in intermodal centres will also be linked to this. Now there are five of these clear investments, which we already know must be carried out, and, of course, there is also the sixth in Debrecen and the Kelenföld, whose implementation is underway. So they all have a huge resource requirement, but the Hungarian government is determined to carry out the investment in agreement with Miskolc's leadership. I have negotiated several times with Mayor Ákos Kriza, his staff, we have received the materials from them, we have received all the documents of the preparation, we are trying to find the best solution. The point is, we need a source, and the government's already decided on this. It will provide resources for implementation, but there are obviously still question marks on the timetable. It is certain that all public works and railway development investments decided by the government will be carried out in Hungary. We must strive to schedule it as our budget's burden-bearing capacity permits, and naturally the most important thing is to draw all EU funds to the bone. Minister Lazarus has just said that we need to call down every penny, penny, cent to ensure that the development of transport in the area that we have targeted is also successful. So it is clear in Hungary that all investments will be carried out, and we will also schedule Miskolc. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-10-10-58	I will ask the Member if he will accept the reply of the Secretary of State.
u2016-10-10-59	Thank you, Mr. President. First of all, Mr Secretary, to my first question, you have been bypassed. I hope it wasn't because it wasn't enough four minutes to list the investments that were delayed or delayed. Therefore, I am clearly unable to accept your answer. However, for cases involving Miskolc, I can say that both the Y-bridge and the bypass section 3 were promised by the Fidesz in Miskolc before 2014. There were some who said they'd be ready for election 14 by now. There's no sign of him. So you can't accept that. You can't see it between developments until 2022. You need to change your mind about this government. There is also a problem with other developments from the. Modern Cities programme. You personally said that by the spring of 18 the M30 would reach the border. So far, it looks like 1.7 kilometers, so that's not acceptable. I can tell you that I very much hope that these investments will be made, but what appears to be what came out last week from the writing of the Népszabadság, which has been removed in an outrageous way since then, has not been answered. So what about the resources? I can't accept the answer.
u2016-10-10-60	The congressman didn't accept the answer. I ask the House whether it accepts it. Please vote. [[Vote.]] The House adopted the answer by 107 votes to 32, with no abstentions. Tamás Pintér, representative of Jobbik, submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Human Resources:. Why does the government bleed out vocational training in Hungary? It's an address. The congressman has the floor. Here you go.
u2016-10-10-61	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, The continuing reduction of vocational training and the lack of skilled workers in Hungary are becoming increasingly worrying visions. This year 55,000 seats were left empty in public vocational training, only 39 percent of the places were filled in vocational schools. Not only are there very few students applying to vocational secondary schools, but there is no guarantee of a sufficient number of practical training places of sufficient quality. In addition to the fact that students in vocational training are going to schools with outdated technology, the problem begins in primary school, as according to the latest reports, the students who graduated there also have a problem with the proper learning of writing and reading. Continuing with the series of problems, the framework curricula for vocational training appeared late, so there wasn't enough time to get to know and develop it. In vocational secondary schools, there are only six hours a week for all that is not a physical education or profession, and in vocational schools there has been less public education. This means that children in vocational training are deprived of the possibility of further education, are deprived of the perspective of self-education and re-training, thus not being able to acquire the ability to adapt to changes in the economy. Today, the shortage of skilled workers in our country is slowly taking unbearable measures. There are areas of expertise where employers find little or no suitable professionals. The list of the least popular professional groups almost completely coincides with the list of current deficiency professions. This is evidence of the failure to find a meaningful solution to the shortage of skilled workers in the professions concerned and the problem is growing. This process is long, but it is already harmful to the Hungarian economy in the short term. Dear Minister, Dear Secretary of State, I look forward to your reply to the following questions. How does the government intend to motivate students to apply for deficiency programmes, and why would professionals from abroad be brought into the deficiency profession while fewer and fewer people apply to vocational schools at home? Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2016-10-10-62	I give the floor to State Secretary Péter Cseresnyés. Here you go.
u2016-10-10-63	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, Honourable Congressman, The Hungarian Government is committed to establishing a vocational training system based on the needs of the economy, which, after completing vocational training studies, provides a wide range of job opportunities and a livelihood for skilled workers. Before responding to your questions and suggestions, I would like to say that the non-final schooling data disprove what you have said, because overall, vocational training has been filled to about 70 percent in terms of capacity ratios. Of course, this should also include measures to help young people or people with skills who want to learn the second profession in vocational training; and the second vocational training will be free of charge, and we have increased the possibility of obtaining the first vocational training from 21 to 25 years. This means that more and more people are able to participate in vocational training and that we have also modernised technical training. [[14.50]] In addition, the scholarship system has been substantially renewed. And this will soon answer your question, that we have increased the possibility of obtaining and accessing scholarships in deficiency professions to such a significant extent, which we hope will attract students to vocational training institutions in the next period. This means that the new Adolf Szabóky Vocational Training Scholarship Scheme introduced from this year's academic year already provides significantly more support in 20-20 gaps per county. I stress that it will therefore be decided by county that twenty deficiency trainings will provide the scholarship to students studying in the field of deficiency training, which may reach up to HUF 50 thousand per month in the case of graduation-based deficiency trainings. Thus, the number of students supported by vocational training grants is expected to rise to 30-35 thousand in the coming years. As a result, we hope that the unemployment rate of 5 per cent, to be more precisely less than 5 per cent, which is currently in force, will decrease further. He said that the training of public knowledge subjects or science subjects is low, and this makes it difficult for students in vocational training to learn further. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that in the course of the transformation, we have made sure that it is not a dead end for young people who come here to study in vocational training, because there is a possibility of further education from each type of institution. I forgot to tell you that in vocational high school, students are taught full-time, but in vocational school, after having obtained a vocational worker's certificate during a three-year study, where, of course, they teach him mainly the profession or the knowledge related to the profession, he can continue to learn, and in the case of two years of further education he can also get a diploma, which also provides him with the possibility of learning in the higher school type. This therefore contradicts what you said in your speech. I would also like to answer the question or question regarding foreign workers. In the mid-2000s about 65 thousand third-country workers worked in Hungary. In 2010, 11,300 people worked here as third countries, and now 5,000 people work here. So it is not timely to ask the question that you said in your interpellation. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-10-10-64	I ask the honourable Member whether he accepts the Secretary of State's reply.
u2016-10-10-65	Thank you very much for the floor. Dear Secretary of State, Once again, we have heard evidence of your failed education policy, as you have admitted that 30 percent of the places in vocational schools have not been filled. This is just another piece of evidence that reflects your ignorance and your inappropriate attitude towards the profession. The unfortunate thing is that young people do not have a vision, they migrate abroad, and you are trying to fill the gaps with admitted foreign workers on which we could place Hungarian people and young Hungarians with appropriate training and appropriate education. I can't accept your answer. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2016-10-10-66	Congressman didn't accept the answer. I ask this House whether it accepts the Secretary of State's reply. Please vote. [[Vote.]] The House adopted the answer by 99 votes to 33, with no abstentions. Dear Parliament, Mátyás Firtl, representative of KDNP, submitted an interpellation to the Minister for National Development:.. Can the Fertő countryside count on the ecotourism development of Lake Fertő? It's an address. Congressman's got the floor.
u2016-10-10-67	Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Until the change of regime, the landscape of Lake Fertő preserved its natural values, but the inaccessible nature of the region was also an obstacle to development. The development of the Fertő landscape could only take place after the change of regime. [[Dr. János Latorcai, vice-president of the Parliament, takes the chair.]] The most important is the magnitude of the resources, but also the development of the Esterházy castle complex of 10 billion in terms of its impact on the region. As another epochal development, last autumn we handed over the Hungarian section of the cycling path network around Lake Fertő. The Hungarian government's support for HUF 450 million created the opportunity to receive an additional HUF 805 million EU funding. The cycling of Lake Fertő opens the way for further development opportunities in the region. A year ago, the reeds of Lake Fertő and the water supply channels of the lake were rebuilt in the framework of a project with a total value of nearly HUF 1 billion, so Fertő's water channel system became operational at a length of 76 kilometres, which is a unique habitat in Europe and is of major importance from a nature conservation point of view. This also creates a unique possibility of introducing water ecotourism, but at the same time it makes it necessary to extend the current only accessibility of Lake Fertő. The ecotourism character and exclusive spectacle, which is unique only in this area, can be developed into a strong and unique attraction. Dear Secretary of State, In view of the development of Esterházy, the results of the previous Rádas habitat project and the recovery of tourism related to the completed cycling routes, we believe that the introduction and development of the water ecotourism activity in the region is well-founded and the development of the roads leading to the unparalleled wildlife of Lake Fertő. All this, taking into account that natural habitats are protected by nature conservation. The people living in the region and myself are convinced that natural value works as a real value when it becomes visible and accessible. This is how nature conservation and environmental protection serve the cause of education and local economic recovery, in which local authorities also see opportunities and partners, such as Hegykő and the other settlements, for example, the possibility of accessing the canals of Lake Fertő as an environmentally friendly infrastructure development and the launch of eco-water tourism. We consider the accessibility of water to be very important. Dear Secretary of State, Can the Fertő region expect to increase the tourism and economic recovery of the billionaire developments in the region, and the infrastructure and ecotourism development of Lake Fertő, so that water can also be delivered? I'm looking forward to your reply. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-10-10-68	Thank you very much, Congressman. State Secretary János Fónagy responds to the interpellation. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2016-10-10-69	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, The tourism development of the region of Sopron and the Fertő landscape is of major importance for the whole country, the economy and the country image. A number of tourism developments have recently taken place in this area. In addition to the ecotourism values of Lake Fertő, since 2001 as a world heritage site has also appeared in the region as a product for sale on its own. In the lake region, the traditional leisure activities of sailing, water sports, boat trips, fishing are also seasonally linked to beaching. Thanks to the built cycling route and related services, cycling tourism is also an integral part of the visitors' programme. The Eurovelo 13 bicycle route around Lake Fertő is a real attraction, which has been greatly influenced by the development of recent years. The preparation of the development of the cycling route linking Lake Fertő with Lake Balaton and closer to Keszthely is also underway. The next period will be the task of creating a unique tourist destination by developing existing supply elements with great potential, as well as by implementing related infrastructure and other projects. It is a destination that, by exploiting foreign demand, including Austrian demand, is able to achieve independent sustainable growth, provide long-term jobs, provide meaningful rest opportunities and, not least, preserve the values of the region. Tourism development can be achieved primarily by involving the resources of economic development and innovation, as well as operational programmes for land and urban development, among the EU funds. [[15.00]] The main aim of the development is to create an ecocenter of Lake Fertő in the area of available droughts with a uniform, sustainable approach and concept. A centre that serves high standards of existing domestic and foreign needs offers a rich range of programs throughout the year, and offers a multi-day opportunity to recreate, but also an attractive and competitive alternative to the resorts of the Austrian side. Thank you for the opportunity to say this. [[It's a rare round of applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-10-10-70	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I'll ask Congressman if he'll accept the Secretary of State's answer. Here you go.
u2016-10-10-71	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, We agree with the thoughts expressed in your reply on the approach, as I have asked. After all, the possibility of Lake Fertő, which I mentioned, provides us with a new ecotourism opportunity. I did not list the settlements, but Fertőboz, Fertőhomok, Hegykő, Coldness, and the city itself of Fertőd opens up a range of opportunities for them, which you said you could expand with new elements in the possibility of destination, serving the improvements that have already been made and, most importantly, the economic cooperation of those living there, the entrepreneurs living there. Because it all means that it expands the opportunities of small and medium-sized enterprises there, who base themselves on this. So I accept your answer by working with us on further development of Fertő. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-10-10-72	Thank you very much, Congressman. As we have heard, Congressman has accepted the Secretary of State's reply. Dear Parliament, Congressman Sallai R. Benedek, representative of the LMP, has submitted an interpellation to the Prime Minister:, Is the matter of state lands a national matter that is over party? It's an address. On behalf of the Minister for Agriculture Sándor Fazekas, who is responsible for the subject, will respond to the interpellation on behalf of the Prime Minister, Mr Bitay Márton Örs State Secretary. Congressman Sallai R. Benedek has the floor. Here you go.
u2016-10-10-73	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, Obviously, it is not so much an FM topic that I want to talk about, because I wanted to ask you about the system of referendums and to interpel. It is very simple: if Fidesz says that a vote where 80 percent of the voters who are entitled to vote go away from the required level and is politically valid, then what about referendum initiatives that are, say, more than 90 percent valid? Where appropriate, the number of valid signatures has become 181 318 according to the decision of the National Election Office in the attempt to referenda on land privatisation. You say, creating the politically valid category, that if it's almost valid, it's already valid. In this case, the Parliament, having more than 100,000 signatures available, has the opportunity to write this without further ado, to decide on this also fateful political issue, which is equally a matter of sovereignty who owns the Hungarian land, because we know who owns the land, who owns the country, yet who will have it in the next period. Accordingly, in my question of interpellation, I was trying to get an answer from the Prime Minister to the question whether the category that you have created is also valid for the field referendum. Are they consistent that if something is almost valid, it is valid, and in this respect the Parliament and the Fidesz pro-government majority support the referendum on this crucial issue? Do they also give the Hungarian people the opportunity to decide, and the Hungarian society will give an opinion? If you want to remain consistent with yourself, with your ongoing position previously communicated last week, I think the answer is relatively straight. I wanted to get a firm confirmation from the Prime Minister. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[Dr. Wind Bernadett applauds.]]
u2016-10-10-74	Thank you very much, Congressman. As I indicated in my introduction, the answer will be given by Secretary of State Bitay Márton Örs. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2016-10-10-75	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Honourable Congressman, I will answer you in the spirit of your interpretation of house rules. Because what you wrote here is completely different. There is one question that is correct: what is really our relationship with the referendum, whether or not it is possible to hold a referendum in land affairs. It mentions everything here, by the way, when the land programme started, how the land programme started, why the land programme is good, what happened with the new law, what has happened since the accession of the EU, the free flow of capital. I'm sorry, I always draw your attention: it's a completely different genre. In the interpellation, you cannot perform what you would like to say, but describes it in time, submit it, and responds to the person of the responder. The Prime Minister did not transfer this answer to the Ministry of Agriculture because you asked about the referendum, but because in the text you are asking about the earth traffic law, asking about the land programme, asking about its control in the Constitutional Court and asking about everything else. By the way, not to deny, he also mentions the issue of the referendum. I just wanted to make sure that that was the case. [[It's a rare round of applause in the pro-government benches.]] That's one of them. The other one, which is very interesting, begins its interpellation by saying that the Fidesz apparently did not want it to be a referendum - I will not read it word for word. Well, dear Congressman, not Fidesz didn't want it, not the government, but the people didn't want it. Because you have not been able to collect 200,000 signatures, which will allow you to hold a valid referendum. And to put it mildly, I think it's funny that you're trying to compare 180,000 signatures with 3 million 300 thousand votes in six months. Still, I think there's a minimum difference between the two. But if you have already mentioned land affairs, I will take advantage of the opportunity to tell you that nearly 30,000 farmers have bought in the land sale program, almost one third of whom are young farmers, and I am very pleased that with the support of the government, with the agreement of farmers, we managed to put nearly 200,000 hectares of land into the hands of Hungarian farmers in the land sale programme. Thank you so much for listening. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-10-10-76	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I will ask Congressman Sallai R. Benedek if he will accept the State Secretary's answer.
u2016-10-10-77	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Once again, the same colleagues of Mr. Secretary of State who could not count the number of sheep in Hajdú-Bihar gave me something completely different because I told them about the same thing that was in my interpellation. It's safe to check. But given the FM's expertise, I'm not surprised. Let me tell you so much about the hints you made that these collectors didn't collect 181,000 signatures, but over 250 grand. How much of it your election office found valid is another question. And let's get one more thing straight, 'cause I'm gonna be louder than you guys. [[Uproar and interruptions in the ranks of Fidesz. The president's ringing the bell. Continued in a raised voice:]] It means that these signatures came from voluntary people who were standing on the street. You didn't go out there to collect signatures for your referendum. You made 10 billion to put together a valid referendum, and you still couldn't do it! At least we collected signatures. We may rightly demand that after more than 90 percent of this category, which is politically valid, which you have introduced, it is unacceptable for you to take any other position than that, if there is a little consistency, a referendum must be issued. [[Intercoms from the pro-government benches. Dr. Wind Bernadett applauds.]]
u2016-10-10-78	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, Congressman did not accept the State Secretary's reply, so I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts it. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the State Secretary's reply by 105 votes in favour, 34 against and without abstentions. Dear Parliament, Dear fellow Members, This brings us to the end of the interpellations. [[It's a short break. Several Members are leaving the Chamber.]] I would like to ask my fellow Members, who are leaving the Chamber in order to take care of their official business, to do so as quickly and as smoothly as possible, so that we can continue our work. Dear Parliament, Congresswoman Ágnes Kunhalmi, representative of the MSZP, wishes to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question: "Does Kehi really control it, Prime Minister? It's an address. The Prime Minister appointed Mr János Lázár, Minister of the Prime Minister's Office, as a response to the urgent public task. I respectfully ask you whether you will accept the person of the response or wait for the Prime Minister's presence to be answered. [[15.10]]
u2016-10-10-79	Mr President, Thank you, I'd be honored, but I'd like to wait for the Prime Minister.
u2016-10-10-80	Thank you very much. The Prime Minister must respond at the hour of the third immediate question. Dear Parliament, Member László Varga, representative of the MSZP, would also like to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question:. Why do you distinguish between two identical medals, two equally successful ones? It's an address. The Prime Minister appointed Mr János Lázár, Minister of the Prime Minister's Office, as a response to the urgent public task. I respectfully ask if you'll accept the person of the responder.
u2016-10-10-81	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Minister, I'd like to wait for the Prime Minister. Thank you very much.
u2016-10-10-82	Thank you very much. The Prime Minister must respond at the hour of the third immediate question. Congressman Gergely Bárándy, representative of the MSZP, wishes to ask the President of the Hungarian National Bank an immediate question entitled "Friends, friends and others." The President appointed Vice-President Márton Nagy as a response to an urgent public task. I respectfully ask the Member whether he accepts the person who is responding or waits for the President's presence to be answered. Here you go, Congressman.
u2016-10-10-83	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Looks like there aren't ten million times today, so Mr. President isn't here, but I'd like to wait. Thank you.
u2016-10-10-84	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, Congresswoman Ildikó Bangóné Borbély, representative of the MSZP, wishes to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question: The Prime Minister appointed Antal Rogán, Minister of the Cabinet Office of the Prime Minister, to respond to an urgent public task. I respectfully ask the congresswoman if she accepts the person who is responding. [[For signal:]] The Congresswoman has already shown very politely that she accepts the person who is responding, so Minister Antal Rogán will reply. Congresswoman Ildikó Bangóné Borbély has the floor.
u2016-10-10-85	The clock is on.
u2016-10-10-86	I'll get it restored.
u2016-10-10-87	Mr President, Mr. Secretary. Luxury bags, luxurious watches, luxury cars, luxury villas, luxury wives today characterize the Fidesz government in addition to corruption. [[Defiance.]] The Laser blocker is no longer enough, it is no longer enough to use the distinctive car, a few days ago Antal Rogán, each week the minister of the apartment grows with one room, showing the population an amazing degree of rags. As Minister of Propaganda, who was meant to communicate the government's activities, he lied, threatened, and disappeared for a few days after the helicopter case was discovered. He told the Hungarian population that he considered the case private and closed. In 2007, a few months after his election as mayor, he took delicate care of his appearance: corduroy jacket, loose clothing. Then he said: in my opinion, the privacy of politicians in modern politics is no longer a private matter; it must not be hidden. Mr. Secretary. Today, more than four million people live below the minimum living age in Hungary, nearly one and a half million people live in extreme poverty, and 42.2 percent of children under the age of 7 grow up in poverty. In Szabolcs County, where the minister took a helicopter, the minimum wage is 116 thousand forints net; only Luxus Tóni paid for the suite. [[Defiance in Jobbik's ranks.]] Mr. Secretary. Does the authority initiate an investigation into the case? Is there a risk of unknown bartering according to Hungarian accounting? You said in 2014 that you were born a peasant child. Being a peasant is no shame, but acting like a peasant is, Minister. [[Defiance in the ranks of the opposition.]] Mr. Secretary, the way you landed in that county, they say it doesn't matter that your behavior or your occupation is a peasant. I'm waiting for your answer. Thank you, Mr. President.
u2016-10-10-88	Thank you. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Minister Antal Rogán. Here you go, Minister.
u2016-10-10-89	Thank you very much. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Ladies and gentlemen, Who, in this situation, is acting like a peasant and who should, say, apologize for his words. [[Zoltán Pride: Come on!]] I think it will be judged in hindsight by those who follow this conversation between us today, honourable Member. I find it rather strange that you speak of my wife as a woman, for example, as I think it is not appropriate for a woman to speak of another woman. [[Zoltán Grimlock: He wasn't talking about your wife! He used to talk!]] But I don't think it's anyone, honourable Member. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] I can now say, of course, that if you are already criticising me as a representative of the MSZP in helicopter matters, it would actually be enough for me to say, honourable Member, that János Kóka. [[Interview from Jobbik's ranks: Come on, you're like that!]] And look into that, honourable Member. [[Zoltán Grimlock: What does it have to do with MSZP? Strange defense, though.]] What your members of the government and your fellow Members said at the time, but I do not want to let go of this with that much, honourable Member. I have to say that, of course, this case has a very serious lesson for me, namely that politicians can never use helicopters for private purposes, even if their wives can afford it as a pretty clever businesswoman. I will say the same to him, and I would add, Congresswoman, that yes, I have made a mistake, because you are here today, of course, removing the crosswater from me. You can do this without further ado, honourable Member, but let me add that I am proud, however, to be a member of a government that you have spoken of here, either in raising the minimum wage. [[Zoltán Grimlock: Gross, yes!]] Whether it was to eliminate unemployment, he did much more than the government that you supported at the time, and in which János Kóka was Minister. Thank you very much for your kind attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-10-10-90	Thank you very much, Minister. In a one-minute rejoinder, the congresswoman has the floor, and I ask you to pay attention to what kind of signalling devices she uses. Here you go.
u2016-10-10-91	You know, Minister, it's very strange to hear from your mouth and from the mouths of the congressmen who form such a macho government in this House that you're hiding with your wife. He's so unmanly. To do something that knocks out the fuse in the country and then crawls behind our wife's skirts. Come on, man up. [[Defiance in the ranks of the opposition.]] If he couldn't be before. Take responsibility. And the responsibility after a case like this is to step up and resign. 'Cause let's at least have this many spines, since you've done this case, and please don't hide behind your wife's skirt. It's not nice for a man. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2016-10-10-92	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. A one-minute rejoinder is also due to the Minister. Here you go. [[Zoltán Grimlock, showing the People's Freedom: What about this?]]
u2016-10-10-93	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and I'm not aware of your marital condition. [[Interjection from the ranks of the MSZP: It's a shame!]] So I don't even know if she's married or not married, but I'd like to tell you, although your name might suggest yes, allow me to say [[Interviews from the ranks of the MSZP. The president's ringing the bell.]] I am certainly proud of my wife, I am proud that she is a successful and capable woman in many ways, and I am glad that she is. [[Zoltán Grimlock: And how much tax does he pay? How much do you tax?]] And by the way, I'm gonna respect whatever it does in any way in life. I do not know if your husband is proud that you are a Member and speak and speak in this manner in Parliament, and you will discuss it among yourselves. But let me add, I wonder if you were proud of yourself when you were a poster face for a campaign in 2004 that was conducted specifically against Hungarians for the purpose of Hungarian hatred. [[Zoltán Grumpy, talk about the helicopter.]] I wasn't proud of you then, honourable Member. Thank you very much for your kind attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties. Zoltán Grimlock: Clap your hands! We'll take the jelly. It'll fit in the grate!]]
u2016-10-10-94	Thank you very much, Minister. Dear Parliament, Congressman György Szilágyi, the representative of Jobbik, wishes to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question:. Haven't you had enough, Prime Minister? It's an address. The Prime Minister has appointed Minister Antal Rogán to respond to an urgent public task. I respectfully ask the Member if he accepts the person who is responding.
u2016-10-10-95	It's very tempting, Mr. President, but I'd like to wait for the Prime Minister. Thank you very much.
u2016-10-10-96	Thank you very much. The Prime Minister, honourable Member, must answer at the hour of the third immediate question. Dear Parliament, Congressman István Apáti, representative of Jobbik, wants to ask the Minister of the Cabinet Office of the Prime Minister an immediate question, who is the peasant child? It's an address. [[Defiance in the ranks of the opposition.]] Congressman István Apáti has the floor. Here you go, Congressman.
u2016-10-10-97	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Minister, "Only a gentleman can rule me, I am a peasant child," said you a few years ago, asking one of the questions about his income situation and wealth growth. Compared to that, there's a gap between your income and expenses in Grand Canyon. If we look at his legal income, we see that it does not cover the repayment of the mortgage loan of nearly 28 million, the amount of 15 million HUF to settle his debt to private individuals, the monthly amount of the luxury common cost of the luxury apartment, the daily rent, the permanent rental fees of the A3 Audi, the costs of the private kindergarten - in principle you, Minister, have no money for food. [[Depletion in the lines of the LMP.]] [[15.20]] I'm asking you, when did you switch to photosynthesis? [[Demercation from the benches of opposition parties.]] How long have you been photosynthesizing? Because you're supposed to have no legal income left for everyday life. Not to mention where you're getting your money for 420,000 forints Louis Vuitton bag, luxury suits, luxury vacations, luxury travels, and a life-style that reflects amazing enrichment at all. We would also like to know if this is somehow related to the statements made by Tamás Portik, the testimony of a witness in the Vizoviczki case, or to various settlement bond businesses, and related offshore companies. What is the reason, Minister, how could you not be able to report on these matters and not be able to account for it? And he writes his property statement creatively, and the size of the apartment increases by 36 square meters from one moment to the next, and then another 40 square meters of garage appears on the horizon. How can this happen, Minister? And in the unexpected case, in case you're hiding behind your wife in the answer you give me, I'm gonna ask you, or I'm gonna ask you with all due respect, to release your wife's property statement. [[Intercom from Jobbik's benches: That's right! Zoltán Grimlock: Finding out how well the company is doing!]] and all living in a common household [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] Your next of kin's property statement to clear yourself. It's in your first interest. I'm waiting for your answer. [[Zoltán Grimlock: That's right, we'll find out. A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2016-10-10-98	Thank you very much, Congressman. I give the floor to Minister Antal Rogán for a two-minute answer. Here you go, Minister.
u2016-10-10-99	Thank you very much. Honourable Congressman, I think that, among other things, there is a very important difference between me and you representatives of that party. [[Interview from the benches of MSZP: Not even one!]] I, you know, Mr honourable Member - and my wife, by the way - have been under constant monitoring for years. It's been a natural phenomenon for years to take the child to kindergarten. [[Zoltán Grumpy: Private vodka! Two hundred a month!]] Then there's a photographer, and he's taking photos. [[György Szilágyi intervenes.]] I'm used to it. I've never complained about this. As I recall, two weeks ago here in Parliament, honourable Member, you complained on behalf of your party president, and you on behalf of your party president, about what it is like to monitor someone's personal life. I can tell you, honourable Member, and may I offer you this: you know the saying that is not the lad who gives it, but the one who pays it. [[Dóra Dúró: That was not the question!]] I would like to suggest to Jobbik that there should be men, of course, when they not only strike, but also when they have to stand. Thank you so much for your attention. [[Moraj from the benches of opposition parties. Zoltán Grimlock: It was a weak answer. How much is kindergarten? Applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2016-10-10-100	Thank you very much. A one-minute rejoinder from Congressman István Apáti. Here you go.
u2016-10-10-101	Thank you very much for the meaningless answer and the misconception. Mr. Secretary. In my person, a real peasant child asks you or tells you that a real peasant child only consumes what he needs to make a living. A real peasant kid, if you ask him where he spent the weekend and how much it cost, he's telling the truth, and he doesn't start lying. A real peasant child respects a two-hand job because he knows what a kilo of bread and a liter of milk is behind it, what physical work stands and doesn't squash public wealth. A real peasant kid works decently, and he would never steal. A real farm boy isn't a party puppy. A real peasant child would never do it, would never do it within his own community, as you do in a way that seriously offends and insults his own community, his own narrow political community. Dear Minister, It is slowly becoming a majority of opinions that your fleet is only missing a medium-sized blue bus, and that your wardrobe is missing a succulent suit. Take responsibility, push the bike away, and if you can't be a farm boy, then be a gentleman. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] and resign! Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2016-10-10-102	Thank you very much. A one-minute rejoinder is also due to the Minister, if he wants to use it. Here you go.
u2016-10-10-103	Thank you very much. Honourable Congressman, I think I've taken responsibility for every decision I make in every situation, and I take responsibility for my mistakes. I think I have also said this here at the request of the congresswoman. Of course, I made a mistake, and I think you're right to take the water off me. Honourable Congressman, Allow me to add that, on the part of your party, I think that what you have just called for would be somewhat justified or fair in one case: if you take your dear fellow Member Béla Kovács and escort him back from Brussels to Moscow, honourable Member. Thank you very much for your kind attention. [[Applause from the benches of the governing parties. Moraj and interventions from the benches of opposition parties. György Szilágyi: The Minister lied! The minister lied! Interview from the benches of the MSZP: It was very weak!]]
u2016-10-10-104	Thank you very much, Minister. Dear Parliament, Congresswoman Bernadett Szél, representative of the LMP, wishes to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question: "Do you know the government's bigger than 3.3 million? It's an address. The Prime Minister has appointed Mr János Lázár, Minister of the Prime Minister's Office, to respond to an urgent public task. I respectfully ask the congresswoman whether she accepts the person of the response or waits for the Prime Minister to be present. Here you go.
u2016-10-10-105	[[Dr. Ákos Hadházy shows a photograph.]] Mr President, I really don't want to criticize house management, and I won't, but according to the Prime Minister's press office, it's not nearly an urgent public task, but the Prime Minister is on leave. [[Dr. István Apáti intervenes.]] So it would be right, and it would be fair to say this in Parliament, not to say that it does an incessant public task. As you can see in the picture, the Prime Minister is in Riga with Minister Sesztas. So from now on, I don't think from now on the answer should be that you're going to perform an indeterminate public service. In addition, Bertalan Havasi also said that he paid for his journey, as always in such cases, out of his own pocket. [[György Balla: What is the question?]] So from now on, I'll wait for the Prime Minister to complete his permanent public duties and freedoms and ask him to answer my question. [[Zoltán Grimlock: Did he take a helicopter?]]
u2016-10-10-106	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, Congressman Ákos Hadházy, representative of the LMP, wishes to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question: "Blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah. It's an address. Once again, I ask the same question that I asked Congresswoman Bernadett Szél whether she would accept Mr János Lázár as a minister in charge of the Prime Minister's Office as a reply or wait for the Prime Minister to be present in this House.
u2016-10-10-107	[[Dr. Wind Bernadett shows up with a photograph.]] Thank you very much. I'd wait until there's a soccer game...
u2016-10-10-108	Congressman, there's no comment. You can answer yes or no.
u2016-10-10-109	No.
u2016-10-10-110	Thank you. Member Ákos Hadházy, representative of the LMP, would also like to ask the Prime Minister's Minister's Office an immediate question, 'Does everything really change after this?' It's an address. Congressman Ákos Hadházy, please. [[Intruder from the benches of Fidesz: There are not so many of you! A statement from the benches of the MSZP: The time will come!]]
u2016-10-10-111	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear Minister, [[István Szilárd Németh intervenes.]] This is Szilárd Németh saying I'm a traitor. That's true. [[György Balla: That's right! Sit down.]] That's true. I had two choices. One is that my country [[Németh Szilárd István: Traitors are still despised. Whatever. The president's ringing.]] I'll tell you; the other one is your boss. Dear Minister, There are stages of acceptance of grief. I think there are also stages in accepting the truth. At first, when I presented a case of corruption, you denied it. And then they're used to admitting that something's going on, but they say it's an exceptional case where there's money, there's money. And then, lately, it's been admitted that, in fact, the system was a problem. [[János Lázár: Which system?]] But they blame it on the socialists, and they say that everything will be different from now on. My question is to admit that the system itself and the system were continued by you and you perfected it. As you said, what's important to you is that the money goes out at all costs. When do you admit that the system is practically made by you? What assurance do you have that everything will be different from now on? For example, if I look at only the fantastic project called the "National Flexibility Plan" it has already started by naming the companies in the first place, without any public procurement, to which you will be able to apply for the implementation of the wonderful And of these, the consortium leader started by entrusting a tender firm called L.A. Multi-Zone with public procurement, so that he could recruit the 150 companies that could take these funds out of the National Flexibility Plan. You said a few hours ago that the power of the application companies had been removed from the system. I think it's ridiculous. They have a role to play.
u2016-10-10-112	Thank you very much. In response, I give the floor to the Prime Minister, Mr János Lázár. Here you go, Minister.
u2016-10-10-113	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I don't know what the question is, so I'm gonna have a hard time answering. [[Defiance from the benches of the governing parties.]] Because I don't know which subject we're talking about, which system we're dealing with, because we have so many systems. The other is what was the specific question. So what was the specific question? I will try to think further about what the Member has said, and I will try to interpret the intention of the speaker in accordance with the rules of the Hungarian language, but if this fails, I apologize. If you have any criticism of the allocation of EU funds, I would like to emphasise once again that, in the case of the Head of the Group, I have already told you how we stand before the House, we stand before the debate on the issue, and we look forward to the day of debate that we are initiating; and we look forward to the evaluation of the reports that we have sent to Parliament. This system is not without fault anywhere. The European Union does not have any supported countries where there are no errors. So saying that we're working without any mistakes would be stupid. I wouldn't do that in any way. The question is how many mistakes there are. I would like to draw the Member's attention to the fact that the errors experienced in Hungary, according to the European Commission's published summary, do not exceed the European average in anything and, in particular, do not exceed the average of the new Member States, including the new Member States supported, Poland, Slovakia and the Czech Republic. [[15.30]] So I do not see the outstanding amount of error that the Member is trying to suggest in his speech. I do not think it would be a systemic mistake, and indeed, in the last year we have worked very hard to correct the errors and determinations of the previous system, and we are doing everything we can to ensure that money is easily accessible to everyone, this is one of the most important aspects; the other is to be able to properly account for those European taxpayers who are net contributors to the European Union. So every Hungarian voter has a chance to apply, whether it is an organizational tender or a personal tender, and we can count the resources we use fairly - this is what motivates any systemic change. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-10-10-114	Thank you very much, Minister. A one-minute rejoinder is the congressman's word. Here you go.
u2016-10-10-115	Thank you very much. Mr President, I'm going to give this one minute's silence in memory of Imre Steindl; if he hadn't planned this Parliament so well, it would be pretty nasty right now, because the ceiling would break. [[Demercation in the ranks of opposition parties. Dr. Ákos Hadházy remains standing. Intercoms from the ruling parties: Finished!]]
u2016-10-10-116	The truth is, Congressman, there's no such thing as a house rule. [[Defiance in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] That you stand up and fill the time frame. You have the right, of course, to stand [[Intercoms, noise.]] But now I give the floor to Minister János Lázár, as long as he stands up and wants to answer this unspecific question for a moment. Here you go, Minister. [[Dr. Ákos Hadházy looks at his watch and sits down. A round of applause and applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-10-10-117	Mr President, My fellow Member Hadházy has introduced new parliamentary customs that still need interpretation from the government that is obliged to respond, but in any case they are much better than when the house was destroyed by the Members of Parliament at that time. [[Intercoms from Jobbik's ranks.]] So the new model of LMP, which is respectable, is that instead of making Parliament impossible and disrupting the equipment by means of obstruction, it is silently protesting the answer - it is an intelligent solution, I congratulate you, Congressman, it is truly an innovation. But I am sincerely open to your comments, and every time I ask my colleagues, if you do not put too much pressure on them, then look at what you are saying, and I also think it is very important that we answer and investigate the matters you have commented on in a meaningful way. So if you'd do me the honor of speaking after listening, maybe we could get ahead of ourselves. [[Defiance in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] and we could use your criticisms [[The president's ringing the bell.]] because it is the government's duty to take into account the criticism of opposition representatives. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-10-10-118	Thank you very much, Minister. I just didn't want to respond to Mr Bernadett Szél's speech when he made the House's leadership responsible for the wording in the script. I would like to tell you that the House's leadership includes your group leader and your notary and parliamentary clerk, so that the necessary comments can also be made there. Thank you very much. [[Dr. Wind Bernadett: I didn't judge him!]] Congressman Béla Dankó, representative of Fidesz, wants to ask the Minister of the Cabinet Office of the Prime Minister an immediate question:, Do the opposition parties support the defence of the national sovereignty of our country? It's an address. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2016-10-10-119	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Minister, In the referendum on 2 October, we decided with 3 million 360,000 of our fellow nations that we would not let anyone else decide for us on the issue of resettlement and migrants. 98 percent of voters voted against forced resettlement, and a new unit was established for Hungary, which considers defending sovereignty to be a national issue. The opinion of more than 3.3 million voters cannot be ignored, and the decision of our fellow nations must be enforced in the Parliament. The Prime Minister initiated the amendment of the Constitution on behalf of 3 million 360,000 citizens, in order to make it clear that without the consent of the Hungarian Parliament, Brussels cannot install immigrants into Hungary with any EU requirement, because this is a matter of sovereignty, and no decision in Brussels can call into question the inalienable right to dispose of Hungary's territorial unit and population. We would amend the basic law on four points, which include that the person who does not have the right of free movement and residence in Hungary can only be admitted on request of the Hungarian authorities individually, on the basis of a legal decision taken in accordance with the law established by the Parliament, and group resettlement is prohibited. Dear Minister, As to what has been said, do the opposition parties support the defence of the national sovereignty of our country? Do opposition parties realise that they must put aside their short-term political interests in this national case? Is democracy really respected by opposition parties claiming to be democrats? I'm looking forward to your reply. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-10-10-120	Thank you very much, Congressman. I give the floor to Minister Antal Rogán. Here you go, Minister.
u2016-10-10-121	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, If everything is true, the precise text of the constitutional amendment tabled by Prime Minister Viktor Orbán and, mutatis mutandis, the reasons attached to it are already available in the parliamentary system. Ladies and gentlemen, I believe that the constitutional amendment that has now been brought before Parliament reflects the will of 3 million 360,000 people; 3 million 360,000 people, which, by the way, has been more than any party or party alliance voting base in Hungary since 1990, have never been so much behind a political force since the change of regime. These 3 million 360 thousand people, by the way, have also been expressed in the referendum of the people's will in the highest agreement since the election, because in only one referendum, as many people have never voted in the same direction as in this referendum, on the average of the questions asked. I think, ladies and gentlemen, that this 98 percent unity is indeed a new unity for Hungary; it obliges us and, I believe, it also obliges our fellow opposition Members, because people's opinions cannot be ignored. I would therefore like to ask the honourable opposition representatives to consider on one side the substantive support for the amendment of the basic law, and on the other hand, on behalf of the Prime Minister, I would also like to ask the leaders of the parties with a parliamentary group to accept the invitation of the Prime Minister, who, through our fellow Member Gergely Gulyás, President of the Legislative Committee, has contacted the president of all parties with parliamentary factions and asked them to contact the Prime Minister personally in the next few days, because he would be very happy to agree with them on how and how we will be able to enforce the will of the 3 million 360 thousand people in the Hungarian Parliament on the one hand, and the same will in Brussels, in addition to the Hungarian Parliament. Thank you very much for your kind attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-10-10-122	Thank you very much, Minister. Congressman Béla Dankó will be ready for a one-minute rejoinder. Here you go, Congressman.
u2016-10-10-123	It is quite obvious that this is a very important matter for the future of the country and the nation, and I therefore very much hope that the parties present in Parliament will indeed rise above their political interests and will be willing to negotiate a substantive amendment of the Fundamental Law at the conciliations, and then, without exception, my fellow Members will seek to support the amendment of the Fundamental Law, with the exception of party preference. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-10-10-124	Thank you very much, Congressman. A one-minute rejoinder is the minister's word. Here you go, Minister.
u2016-10-10-125	Thank you very much. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, The government will in no way depend on the fact that the fundamental law amendment is successfully passed through Parliament, and I think that it will not depend on the governing parties either. I would like to draw the attention of my fellow Members here to the fact that this is of particular importance now, because the European Parliament and the Brussels Commission are starting the legislative process on compulsory resettlement quotas and forced resettlement. Next week, this would be on the agenda of the EU Council of Home Ministers, and the Prime Minister agreed on this matter with the Head of Government of Slovakia, which holds the Presidency of the European Union - the government is doing its part in European fora. I ask you to make it possible for the Fundamental Law to be amended as quickly and clearly as possible, which corresponds to the unanimous will of 3 million 360,000 people. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-10-10-126	Thank you very much, Minister. Dear Parliament, Fellow Members! Congressman István Tukacs, representative of the MSZP, wants to ask the Minister of Human Resources an immediate question: It's an address. The Minister has appointed Mr Zoltán Ónodi-Szűcs State Secretary for his response to an urgent public mission. [[On the signal of István Tukacs:]] The congressman indicates that he accepts the person who is responding. Congressman István Tukacs has the floor, please.
u2016-10-10-127	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, Of course, I accept you as a responder, because, on the one hand, I welcome you here in Parliament, because here we can find out what the portfolio's position is on certain health issues, because so far we have only been able to do so from its texts at various conferences and events. [[15.40]] On the other hand, I welcome the fact that the Parliamentary Secretary of State of the Ministry answers questions on similar matters with some eight years - roughly 90 percent of the answer - and the question is smudged - 10 percent of the answer. Secretary of State, I do not have to tell you that the procedure for the introduction of 18 new medicines capable of curing cancer is not, to say the least, in the interests of cancer patients. According to organizational surveys, the maximum time in the exceptional and your procedures is 887 days, around 440 days, the average, and not 90 days. I know, Mr. Secretary, you have recently announced that this procedure is going well. But this is not right, we all know, because if these medicines can be used, they should be used without any fairness procedure, because these people are living every day. Secretary of State, I am therefore asking what is the cause of this delay. For when not only I, or especially I, but also sick organizations, are looking for the Chancellor to help and give him the opportunity to speed up this process, this indicates that this matter is really important for patients, and it should not necessarily be important for politics. Thank you in advance for your reply, Mr State Secretary. Thank you, Mr. President.
u2016-10-10-128	Thank you very much, Congressman. I give the floor to Mr Zoltán Ónodi-Szűcs, State Secretary.
u2016-10-10-129	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, Honourable Congressman, We are now charged with not answering your question properly. Now I'd like to answer very briefly, because what you've just done is a deliberate washing of two different cases. I would like to stress that today everything in Hungary is in need, everyone who needs cancer medicine gets their medicine within the deadline. This is an important sentence from my mouth, I think, because you confuse what you just said when it comes to the fact that, for the first time in many years, it will finally be possible for medicines previously available only within the framework of special fairness to finally be transferred into a specific item and accepted by OEP. These are two completely different cases. I would like to point out once again that everyone in Hungary is being treated within the equity register, within the deadline. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-10-10-130	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I give the floor to Congressman István Tukacs for a one-minute rejoinder.
u2016-10-10-131	Mr Secretary, I don't want to be so serious about the world, but let me ask you what the sick organizations were doing with the Chancellor. What were you doing there? So if everyone gets their meds, there's no problem. And they seem to have one. Therefore, on the one hand, I find it odd that you or you are not wanted on this issue, but it doesn't matter, whether this is a matter of government business or not. I do, however, think that the news in the press has not been denied in one word, that I have not seen a wallet display that would have said it was not true; but those who represent the sick demand you to speed up this process. And it's not a wash! So the claim that everyone gets their medication on time is not acceptable to me in this method of response, Mr. Secretary of State, and at least it is questionable why patient organisations do not know this. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2016-10-10-132	Thank you very much, Congressman. A one-minute rejoinder, Mr. Secretary of State, please.
u2016-10-10-133	After no further question has been asked, I can only repeat what I just said: within the framework of individual fairness, everyone who otherwise has the right to receive that medicine, i.e. all the documents were attached to his application, i.e. he was entitled to actually receive the medicine, because it will really work for him, the patient will receive his medication within the deadline. In fact, it is often easy to say that there is a miracle drug somewhere that might help him, and many people are offering him the drug, but besides the fact that a pharmaceutical lobby might be able to profit from it, it would not make sense. By the way, I suggest that everyone who has something to do with medicine should not look for anyone else, find us. If someone makes a mistake, either at OEP or at any other institution, we will investigate it. But what I can say to you now, quite calmly, is that such a thing cannot happen; or if so, we will find the sinner for it. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-10-10-134	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Congresswoman Loránt Hegedűs, representative of Jobbik, notary of the National Assembly, wishes to ask the Minister of National Economy an immediate question with the title "The Price of Nationalisation." Minister has appointed Mr Péter Cseresnyés Secretary of State to respond to an urgent public task. I respectfully ask the congresswoman, the notary, whether she accepts the person of the response. [[For signal:]] She says she'll take it. There you go. You have the floor.
u2016-10-10-135	Thank you for the floor. Minister of State, to the greater glory of a coherent and professionally supported government policy a few days after Secretary of State Palkovic said that he did not have to pay the municipalities a contribution to running the schools after the full nationalization, it turned out: yes, he did! So much so that the government withdraws nearly HUF 50 billion from local governments next year. A solidarity contribution, i.e. a kind of tax, would be imposed by the government on municipalities and reduced subsidies. For example, the extraordinary support framework, self-hikit, is halved from 25 billion to 11 billion. In addition to the fact that the solidarity contribution is presumed to be against the law, it is contrary to the prohibition of double taxation, but it is withdrawing its own revenue, which is an instrument of self-organising local power not only under domestic law but also under international treaties. In addition, according to the Government Decree on Nationalisation, those employed in economic, administrative and technical jobs are transferred to the competent district centre, but we know that this is not a guarantee that they will actually have jobs, as significant redundancies are expected. Overall, it can be said that the solidarity contribution - one - does not solve the problem of funding education; two, unfair, unthinkable and dilettant, since it is not only a tribute to those who would otherwise be affected by nationalisation; three, do not encourage better performance. Mr State Secretary, in recent months you have had plenty of opportunities, and you have the opportunity to listen to the opinions of professional organisations and local governments and to come up with a better, more efficient solution. Question: "When are you going to initiate the amendment of the 2017 budget law, which is in a hurry, how do you intend to resolve the financial situation of schools in the future?" Thank you for listening.
u2016-10-10-136	Thank you very much, notary. As I said, the answer will be given by Secretary of State Péter Cseresnyés. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2016-10-10-137	Thank you very much. Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and He asked a question in principle as to how schools can be financed, schools that are partly financed by the state and partly financed by the municipality; we know very well that in certain municipalities, for certain types of school, the operating costs have been provided by the municipalities so far, while a certain part of the reservation has been taken over by the State. From the moment the state took over the management and maintenance tasks from the municipalities, I think - and I think that many of us think so - that from that moment on it took over not only the possibility of operation and the everyday tasks involved in running, but also the costs of running which the authorities have so far been given by the state to finance the tasks of operation with that money. It did not therefore take away from the municipalities, but did not give the costs associated with the tasks of operation as a normative or otherwise to the municipalities. This does not mean that the municipalities will get less money from this, but that the State will use the costs of carrying out certain tasks directly to the schools, to support the school, not through the municipality, but directly to carry out this task. This is an explanation of what you have, by the way, interpreted indirectly differently. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-10-10-138	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. A one-minute rejoinder will be given to the congresswoman, notary, please.
u2016-10-10-139	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr. Secretary. I would like to say to you, as Minister of State of the Ministry of National Economy, that until now the state has given local governments HUF 2.5 billion to operate schools. He's pulling 50 now. Do you understand? He gave me 2.5, now he's pulling 50. That is why I was talking about how these problems were solved from their own income. [[15.50]] Now you will withdraw these own revenues in the order of HUF 20 billion for this contribution and will withdraw certain subsidies. I think, Mr Secretary of State, that the last time in Hungary, when solidarity and nationalisation were mentioned in a hat, it was called wardom-munism, that is why we reject it. Thank you so much for listening. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2016-10-10-140	Thank you very much. Mr Péter Cseresnyés is also entitled to a one-minute rejoinder. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2016-10-10-141	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and I don't want to go into numbers war. [[Mrs. Loránt Hegedűs: It is in the law.]] I don't want to go into a number war about rejoinders, but I'd like to say as an ex-government leader that you're wrong. This is not quite the case, especially since the tasks have been shared, the municipalities have had to put less and less money into this, and it can even be said that almost entirely, through normative measures, the State has assumed the maintenance and operating costs from the municipalities. There may have been exceptions in some places, in larger and medium-sized municipalities it is certain that it was not so, or that self-employed municipalities have volunteered to teach students more comfortably and in better conditions in a given settlement, and have contributed extra money to the maintenance and operation. That is the explanation for this, which I think you have misinterpreted from the budget law. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-10-10-142	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, Congressman István Hollik, representative of KDNP, wants to ask the Minister of Human Resources an immediate question:. What has been done in the spring plans for the Erzsébet camps, and what is expected in 2017? It's an address. Mr. Minister has appointed Mr. Miklós Soltész Secretary of State to answer the question because of his urgent public mission. I respectfully ask the Member if he accepts the person who is responding. [[For signal:]] Congressman indicates his acceptance of Secretary of State Miklós Soltés as a response. Congressman István Hollik has the floor. Here you go, Congressman.
u2016-10-10-143	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Not much has happened before 2010 in relation to the recreation of socially dependent children [[Lajos Korózs: Yes, you can. We spent 80,000 children a year on vacation.]] Therefore, it is particularly interesting to listen to more vocal socialist voices than usual, who have spoken today in the spirit of social sensitivity and criticized the Fidesz-KDNP government. However, this sensitivity was not very visible in this area before 2010, for example, because they did not do much to help children in need of social assistance. That's the mistake the government made when it launched the Elizabeth program. In doing so, he set the goal of providing children in need with a reduced holiday and a relaxing opportunity under the social holiday scheme. It is also important to emphasise in the Erzsébet camps that there was a possibility of rest for both mother and foreign children. This year it is planned that the programmes were implemented with HUF 4.3 billion in budget support, and next year the government plans to spend even more money on this. The KDNP fraction takes into account the easing of the situation of children and families, so after the summer, I would like to ask Mr Secretary of State what has been done in the spring plans for the Erzsébet camps. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-10-10-144	Thank you very much, Congressman. I give the floor to Secretary of State Miklós Soltész. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2016-10-10-145	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, Lajos Korózs shouted here, I can tell you that the socialists are still living in the fascination of the Republic of the Council. [[Lajos Korózs: Sit down, Miklós! Aren't you ashamed? Is that why you get paid? The president's ringing the bell.]] , when a few thousand people were taken on holiday to Margaret Island, and now the program for which...
u2016-10-10-146	Excuse me, Mr. Secretary, stop for a minute. Mr Korózs, you cannot speak now in this genre, if you speak, then, unfortunately, you have the appropriate disciplinary consequences, and I do not want to give you that. So I'm going to ask Mr. Secretary of State to continue.
u2016-10-10-147	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. And by the way, they're doing everything they can to make sure that the Erzsébet program, the success of which can be confirmed by everyone, is drilled in Brussels, and not have the financial background that we have for people with disabilities, pensioners, large families, and, as you said, for many children, students, I would add, for children across the border, we've also managed to take vacations. This year the number of beneficiaries rose above 90,000 only through the Erzsébet camps, and there was a programme that I would like to highlight, the day-care Erzsébet camp at 400 points in the country. There were 740 camps where children who live in very poor, difficult conditions can be camped. I think that this programme has certainly fulfilled its expectations, and it is no coincidence that it will continue in the autumn, we have written it out now, and there will be nearly 9,000 children camping this way during the fall break. I would add that there were 2,500 children from Transcarpathia here, some 500 children of Ukrainian origin, but people who speak Hungarian or are learning it now. This message is also very important, whether in relation to Hungarian-Ukrainian relations or in order for children living with Hungarians to know Hungary. It is a pity that they want to destroy this programme in Brussels, but we will keep it. Thank you. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-10-10-148	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. It's a one-minute rejoinder, Congressman. Here you go.
u2016-10-10-149	Thank you, Mr President, and thank you, Mr Secretary, for your answer. It is also clear from its response that the goals set by the Government of Hungary and Fidesz-KDNP were achieved when the Erzsébet programme was launched. One more question, that's what I'd like to use this one minute for. As I said, this year the government spent 4.3 billion forints on the Erzsébet programme, but next year's budget shows that this amount will be increased by nearly one billion forints. My question about this is what changes in the Erzsébet programme are expected from this amount, which has already increased by HUF 1 billion next year. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-10-10-150	Thank you very much, Congressman. Mr. Miklós Soltész is also entitled to a one-minute rejoinder. Here you go.
u2016-10-10-151	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Honourable Congressman, In the following year, the support of the Erzsébet camps will increase by HUF 800 million, i.e. by nearly one billion. Obviously, we will devote this to the growing number of people and obviously to the development of infrastructure, which we have done over the last few years. Since 2012, it has been the camp in Fonyódliget, the Zánka camp, and, to add, the Transylvanian drinking camp that serves this holiday form. It wasn't like this before 2010, there wasn't such a large number of holidays before 2010 [[Lajos Korózs: We had 80,000 children on holiday! Why are you lying to me?]] And every year, year after year, whatever Congressman Korózs shouts, don't listen to him, whatever he says, the socialists have not been able to achieve this camping, and I add once again, an opportunity for recreation, which we have given to disabled, elderly people and large families. Thank you very much for asking. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-10-10-152	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Congresswoman Erzsébet Schmuck, Head of the LMP Group, wishes to ask the Prime Minister of the Prime Minister's Office an immediate question: doesn't János Széchenyi know that metro number three is not a game? It's an address. Congresswoman Erzsébet Schmuck, Group Leader, please.
u2016-10-10-153	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Minister, I don't know if you use subway three, I do. He's really in a state of disaster. The faults are on each other, where one of the trains is lit up, where passengers are transported for other reasons. Even the BKV itself admitted that the position of the line was critical. By the way, it's no wonder they haven't renovated subway 3 in 40 years. At the same time, a lot of people travel daily on Metro 3, serving about three Debrecen passengers, more than the average daily MÁV. What you need to see is that a serious accident puts a lot of people's lives at risk. Who will take responsibility if such an accident occurs? Are you willing to do this or the Prime Minister? We see that the preparations have been going on for years, but they keep pushing deadlines, changing plans while the costs are rising. In recent years, we have not seen the search for a quick solution to the renewal of Metro 3 but we have heard that István Tarlós and you are constantly arguing about this. The mayor told me today that someone was deliberately blocking the subway renovation. We know that the debate has now developed around subway replacements. Looks like the government won't let them buy new buses for the job, they'd rather buy services from fidesz oligarchs for this purpose. But who owns a bus park this big? I ask the Minister why the interest of the fidesz oligarchs is more important than the safe and high quality transport of Budapesters. [[16.00]] How long are you going to take to renovate subway three, how long are you going to risk the tragedy? And who's gonna take responsibility if there's trouble?
u2016-10-10-154	Thank you very much, Madam Group leader. I give the floor to Minister János Lázár for a two-minute answer. Here you go.
u2016-10-10-155	Thank you very much. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and First of all, I would like to start by saying that the Hungarian government and I think that all Hungarian voters in Budapest and Hungary are interested in ensuring that the Hungarian metro lines operate safely. It is well known that the Hungarian taxpayers, the European taxpayers and the Hungarian government have made a financial sacrifice in order for metro 4 to be completed, and it is also known that we are prepared to provide a significant bank guarantee, cover and guarantee that the financial conditions of metro 3 can be financed in part or, if necessary, even more than we have done so far. So we're ready to help the capital in everything to get metro 3 refurbished. It is a natural endeavour for the Mayor to do so as soon as possible, since concerns about the technical state of Metro 3 are justified. You, who use it daily, are likely to see exactly what dangers there are. I would like to tell you that the first step, which has been taken and which has triggered a debate, is a public procurement procedure for the purchase of metro line replacement bus number 3. I would like to disprove the misunderstandings here and to eliminate them, given that the Vola has applied for metro line 3 to be replaced. So the bus replacements for subway 3 would like to be provided by Volán as a 100% state-owned company. I don't think anyone has a reasonable objection to the state trying to help the capital. Of course, Volán will strive to carry out this task with buses produced in Hungary and produced by Hungarians. However, the Public Procurement Decision Committee has crossed the calculation of both the government and the capital because it has suspended the procurement procedure by declaring it illegal. By the way, I would like to inform you that on the 6th of the month X, the procurement procedure for the construction of the renovation work of the stations of the central section of the Budapest metro line 3 has been completed, and the demolition of tenders will begin on the 6th of the month X. I'll let you know the next steps in the next minute, Mr. President. Here, I've collected what kind of public procurement is in progress, and when the results are expected. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2016-10-10-156	Thank you very much, Minister. It's a one-minute rejoinder for the woman in charge of the faction. Here you go.
u2016-10-10-157	Thank you very much. Minister, one thing is certain that the people of Budapest are tired of being promised to them, and there is, in fact, a point of view. The only thing that's important is to get the metro 3 refurbished as soon as possible. Here we think you should clean up your own house, and it shouldn't happen that you're pointing fingers at each other. They've been preparing to renovate Metro 3 for three years, and we're basically saying that something will happen again sometime in the future. I don't mean to be mean, but I'm gonna do a little bit of it: how do you guys want to make an Olympics if you can't renovate metro 3 since 2010?
u2016-10-10-158	Thank you very much, Madam Group leader. Then it's Minister's turn to speak for a moment.
u2016-10-10-159	This is not a mischief, but a legitimate suggestion; you are right that the capital must develop it for the safety of passengers, for the modernisation of transport and for the international competitiveness of Budapest. Four procurement procedures are being completed. The final result has not yet been achieved in all of them, a 16 billion-dollar procurement procedure has been completed, and the tenders have been broken down by IX. 16 months: construction and additional planning of the line section between the South Kőbánya-Kispest and Népliget stations for the reconstruction of Metro Line 3, a 40 billionaire between the stations Nagyvárad tér and Lehel tér, the construction and additional design of a line section between Dózsa György út and Újpest-Central Stations, the reconstruction of metro lines 19.6 billion and 3: track construction, tunnel construction, insurance equipment, 41 billion. The procurement procedure of HUF 116 billion will be completed on the 6th of the month X, on the 7th of the month X and on the XIth. the 10th of the month. From now on, contracts will take place, and it will be very difficult for the construction to begin. Believe me, we are all interested in improving Budapest's transport significantly. That's what the mayor is fighting for, whom we support in all his struggles. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2016-10-10-160	Thank you very much, Minister. Dear Parliament, Congresswoman Anita Heringes, representative of the MSZP, wishes to ask the Minister for National Development an immediate question:. What do you intend to do with the Telecar? It's an address. Minister János Fónagy has appointed Secretary of State to respond to the urgent public task. Congresswoman indicates that she accepts the person who is responding, so Congresswoman Anita Heringes has the floor. Here you go.
u2016-10-10-161	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, It wasn't the helicopter, it was the news this summer that you were trying to regulate the carpool program. For the last time, we saw such overregulation when it was about Uber and these kinds of companies, and somehow young people are starting to shudder when they see that the government wants to regulate something that affects their small lives. This was the private pension fund that was being protected, and we saw how it ended, and this was the Uber program, which was over-regulated, and it was impossible, and that was the e-cigarie, which was also the most often affecting young people, which was also made impossible by overregulation. Now the news is that they're setting up a control body to supervise passenger transport. Their supervision will extend from 10 to 400,000 forints, and some carpoolers have already written that they have already been checked. That is why young people who, I have told you a few times in the past, are not able to make a living at the moment from their one-month pay, not from young people working in the countryside, or from young people living in Budapest. The only way they can go home to their parents is to organize on certain Facebook pages or on certain more official sites. They talk about who goes in one direction with the other, get in the car, and then share the cost of the trip. It's not a profit-oriented initiative, it's their goal to have the little money that if they put together, they can go home together to their parents. Some people use it to get to work in the morning. I think that this is a solution that should not be hated, that should not be overruled, but that young people should be given the opportunity to go to work or to travel home to their parents on weekends. Now we feel like it's like inviting your friends for a pizza barbecue, offering you the pizza oven, the raw material, and throwing the money together, and the government will control it after a while. Mr. Secretary, please tell me you're not touching the carpool program.
u2016-10-10-162	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. I give the floor to Secretary of State János Fónagy. Here you go.
u2016-10-10-163	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and The fact that if we regulate an activity which violates the purity of a market, which disregards Hungarian legislation, I do not think that it is overregulation, and this is particularly questionable to hear from the words of a fellow Member whose job it is to participate in the creation of a legitimate order that can be followed in Hungary. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and The carpool solution is a very nice idea if it really happens the way you say it does. It's very nice when modern infocommunication methods, as you say, bring together well-intentioned young people to return to their loving parents' homes. At the same time, we must see that this activity is not only used for such purposes, and that it is not only for the normal and fully-appreciable cost-sharing, but also for those who use it for profit. I suppose we can agree that the two should be separated sharply. Currently, carousel activity is not regulated, today passenger transport with a car is regulated for a fee, which does not include the car-car system. At the same time, we fully agree that by using modern infocommunication methods, modern telephone application methods, regulation must be kept up to date and regulation must be introduced that does not over-regulate, while at the same time protecting and promoting fair market behaviour. The government is working on that right now. I am convinced that the banning of the bourgeoising activity on this road was an appropriate step. If you don't mind, I'll keep going. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2016-10-10-164	Thank you very much. I would like to speak to Congresswoman Anita Heringes for a moment. Here you go.
u2016-10-10-165	Thank you very much for the floor. We really hope the government doesn't spill the baby with the bath water. The problem is that I often feel - and with all due respect to the Secretary of State - that you always look at those who, by the way, break the rules. [[16.10]] It's probably from their government that most of the people among you, and most of the members of the government, are breaking the rules. That's not what these young people do. These young people really just put the money together so they can travel home. We fear that if the government tries to decide from above, from Budapest or even from the top of a helicopter how young people can share their costs, the child will really be poured out with bath water. That's why we're really worried about carpools right now, and we're really worried about young people. The problem is that if young people feel that you're slowly over-regulating everything, they see only one option: leaving this country because they don't have the money to make a living. They can't even go home to their parents, have nothing to start a family, have nothing to buy an apartment, have nothing to buy a car with. It's very difficult to keep young people here, Mr. Secretary.
u2016-10-10-166	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. A one-minute rejoinder from the Secretary of State. Here you go.
u2016-10-10-167	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Maybe we don't live in the same country. I see young people who don't bleed their fate like you show them. [[Interviews from the ranks of the MSZP: Not to the Rogan! Defiance in the ranks of the MSZP.]] I believe that the regulation and regulation of a passenger activity at the appropriate level is far from giving you the opportunity or reason to present a national death, generational death and other such. Please maintain your standard. When we are talking about car regulation, we are discussing the need to discuss which I consider to be a perfectly appropriate thing, then let us keep in mind that anyone who is doing an activity properly and, as you say, should be left in peace, and who does not do so, and there we must not visit national death, but apply appropriate rules, which would benefit you. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-10-10-168	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Member György Szilágyi, representative of Jobbik, wants to ask the Minister of Human Resources an immediate question:. The introduction of everyday physical education served only government propaganda. Real implementation is no longer so important to the government. It's an address. The Minister has appointed Mr László Palkovics Secretary of State to respond to an urgent public task. I respectfully ask the Member if he accepts the person who is responding. [[For signal:]] Congressman's okay with it. Congressman György Szilágyi has the floor.
u2016-10-10-169	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, The introduction of everyday physical education was a milestone in the history of Hungarian public education, and it was also an outstanding innovation in Europe, which could give Hungarian students the opportunity to move and play sports in addition to the life form of the modern age. The question is whether these goals have been achieved in the four years ahead. It is well known that the biggest obstacle to everyday physical education is the lack of facilities. You spend hugely hundreds of billions on investment in prestige-sports facilities, but we do not see the government's intention to improve the situation of schools in gymnasium and sports facilities. The programme "National Public Education Infrastructure" is slow, far from running at an appropriate pace. Day - to - day physical education in the ascending system would have required an increasing number of facilities that were not built in time. Jobbik considers it to be the main problem that he does not see the government's intention to resolve the situation of the facility. We are curious whether the gym building program will develop as quickly as the sports development on the Highway. Another main objective of everyday physical education is to involve students in the long term in the system of sports associations. The majority of the Hungarian flagship sports associations have student sports and daily physical education programs. However, all work in this field must also be done by gym teachers, and without adequate remuneration. The government did not respond to Jobbik's proposal, in which we proposed to involve professionals in sports organisations in the everyday physical education process. This could also have solved the shortage of staff and would have led to a much higher level of children's professionalism than is currently being done in the current system. I ask the Secretary of State how the government intends to speed up and make gym constructions more efficient in the period until 2018, and how they are trying to solve the lack of a physical education teacher, without whom there will never be an adequate level of physical education in schools. I'm waiting for your answer. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2016-10-10-170	Thank you very much, Congressman. I give the floor to Secretary of State László Palkovics. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2016-10-10-171	Mr President, Dear House, Honourable Congressman, I think we absolutely agree that in a country where 50 percent of the population is admitted to being overweight, 60 percent of the population is calculated to be overweight, we have to do a lot of things to achieve this, and otherwise 40 percent of children have movement coordination problems, the introduction of daily physical education, which, by the way, reached its full level in the system that goes up this year, is definitely an important thing. What is the public opinion about this, I think I could quote a January statistics, where 78 percent of the respondents think it is good and absolutely supportive of everyday physical education, and of course we are constantly developing its conditionality. There's a lot to be said for the conditionality. This includes, on the one hand, framework training plans which, in addition to the usual physical education class, have provided opportunities to display sports in school education such as horse culture, sailing, kayak canoes [[Interviews from Jobbik: It is available in all villages!]] , bike, basketball, sponge handball, and now different fighting sports have also appeared. Where available, this should be dealt with and, where not available, with other types. In any case, support for the infrastructure condition for everyday physical education is ongoing, as the Member mentioned, the National Public Education Infrastructure programme continuously determines the places where investments have started. The current state of play of the first phase of the programme reflects the fact that 12 of the 24 sites have already been transferred. It has also just started: 25 classrooms, 24 school hotels are being built in the second phase of the program, and the program itself will continue. The EFOP 4.1.16.16. is dedicated to the creation of a programme called regional development of the school system, which will provide schools, classrooms, gymnasiums and sports facilities, as well as their equipment. About instructors [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] - by the way, the situation is not as terrible as the congressman said - we looked at how many people are retiring. Only this year, 530 teachers of physical education have been recruited in schools, partly in physical education, in physical education, and there is also the possibility of having a physical education course, and we are now working on how we can involve the professional association...
u2016-10-10-172	Excuse me, Secretary of State, you'll have the opportunity to finish in your last one-minute rejoinder. I am now giving Congressman György Szilágyi a one-minute rejoinder.
u2016-10-10-173	Mr. State Secretary, what you have said here, of course, is overweight Hungarian society, of course, would be a good thing, because everyone is in favour of having everyday physical education, but you forget, Mr. Secretary, that what you did four years ago is zero. You're starting to think about it now? What you listed is also zero. No gymnasiums, no facilities, no gym teachers. [[Interviews from the ranks of the MSZP: That's right!]] In order to have everyday physical education in Hungarian schools, which we supported, there are only two things missing, and everything else is there anyway. There are only two things missing: facilities and gym teachers. These two things are just missing to be a regular physical education. Then let's not talk about everyday physical education, because right now, what's going on in schools doesn't encourage and please children to play sports, it scares them away, it has the opposite effect. You should have created the conditions in four years. They have neither created these conditions nor thought about alternative solutions. [[Interviews from the ranks of the MSZP: That's right!]] Simply what can be put into the government's account for everyday physical education is a big zero! [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2016-10-10-174	Thank you very much, Congressman. A one-minute rejoinder from the Secretary of State. Here you go.
u2016-10-10-175	Then I'll finish the last sentence. Obviously, knowing the facts doesn't bother the congressman very much. [[Bangóné Borbély Ildikó: The problem is that we know the facts!]] So I'd like to finish my last thought. Involvement of sports associations in everyday physical education has been developed. This will appear soon. So much so that the regulation of this will soon be incorporated into the law, as you well know, that in the case of everyday physical education, it is possible at this moment to block the clocks. We're working to expand this. The MTA, the University of Physical Education and the Committee of the Hungarian Student Sports Association are continuously examining the conditions and effectiveness of everyday physical education, which makes suggestions for what you have said, and otherwise this is being developed. I think that's what you're waiting for - there were gymnasiums in schools, I remember, we've had them, we've renovated some of them, and it's going on all the time - beyond that. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] that they are constantly being renovated, obviously it cannot be done at the same time. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-10-10-176	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, That concludes the hour of immediate questioning. Now we move on to questioning. Dear Parliament, Congresswoman Ildikó Bangóné Borbély, representative of the MSZP, wishes to ask the Minister of Human Resources:. What does the government do to prevent physical, psychological or sexual abuse against children? It's an address. Congresswoman Ildikó Bangóné Borbély has the floor. Here you go. [[16.20]]
u2016-10-10-177	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, In recent years, more and more news has been reported about the serious abuse and criminal activity of children. The problem of the system is indicated by the fact that some of these occurred with children who were in front of the basic care, but could not prevent the various abuses they suffered. The burdened, underpaid social workers, caregivers, patronesses, the often inoperable signalling system cannot signal all problems in time. Some people are almost out of child protection. Thus, family babies, children, were starved, tortured, or sexually molested, but these were not revealed, and in many cases the abuse resulted in tragedy. There has recently been news of a case that has taken place in the other area of the supply system, in specialised care. The abuse of children's homes is particularly serious, which is linked to a shortage of professionals, a lack of adequate skills for workers and a lack of adequate professional control. This is why the Hungarian Socialist Party has submitted a parliamentary resolution proposal. We believe that we can no longer watch the inaction that the government is doing, that it amends the law every six months, but that there is no substantial change in the matter. Unfortunately, the pro-government members of the People's Welfare Committee did not support our initiative, but there were at least so many posts in the committee members that they did not vote down, but abstained on the matter. That is why I am asking Mr Secretary of State what the government is doing to protect children. What does the government do to ensure that children are not subjected to physical, mental or sexual abuse, especially in the specialized care system for children, and how long will it take to wait for the government's actual steps? I'm waiting for your answer.
u2016-10-10-178	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. The answer will be given by Secretary of State Károly Czibere. Here you go.
u2016-10-10-179	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and According to the government, any crime against children is unacceptable, but they are also abnormally immoral to exploit in a guilty manner the vulnerable situation of children who have already suffered many traumas and injuries in child protection care. In order to prevent this, several steps have already been taken, since the child protection system is intended to allow, expand and develop children's homes and foster care networks. Consider the significant expansion of foster care in the last three years, and consider egressing large, ageless children's homes for child protection. Regular annual inspections will also be carried out by the metropolitan and county government offices. An important guarantee instrument is the operation of child rights representatives and the entry of child protection guardians into the system on 1 January 2014. Even in the cases you mentioned, the guardian of child protection played a key role. He is not an institutional guardian, he is not an institutional guardian, he is a child protection guardian, which is independent of the institution. These four independent actors can ensure the protection of children's rights. If there are reasonable grounds for suspecting the staff of child protection institutions, their responsibilities will be clarified in criminal proceedings. We're gonna follow up on every single case and investigate it. In the case of children living in their families, we consider it particularly important to strengthen the child protection and welfare signalling system. Two levels have been made since January 2016. At local level, the child welfare service is responsible for the organisation of the local child protection signalling system, the development and operation of forms of cooperation. It's receiving the signals. Our task is to strengthen this signalling system. That is what we have done so far, and we will continue to do so with legislation, methodological guidelines and recommendations. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-10-10-180	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, Congressman István Szávay, representative of Jobbik, wishes to ask the Minister of Human Resources: When can Hungarian students focus only on their academic and academic advancements instead of their material problems? It's an address. Congressman István Szávay has the floor.
u2016-10-10-181	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, The majority of Hungarian students are suffering from serious financial problems, neither from constantly decreasing scholarships, nor from the support of their parents living in ever worse financial conditions, nor from the often impossible student work. Over the last ten years, the amount of student allowances has decreased year after year in terms of real value, and there has been no substantial scholarship increase for almost a decade. For example: when I was a fifth-year student in 2006, so ten years ago the student normative, the amount of grants that could be used directly to a student was 116 thousand forints, this is just 3 thousand forints more today. Based on my outstanding study results, I received a Hungarian scholarship in 2006, then it was HUF 30 250, and today, after ten years, it increased to just HUF 34 thousand, which also made it significantly degenerate. According to the Research Group of Active Young People in Hungary, in the spring of 2015, a university student lives on average of 68,000 forints, while at that time the guaranteed minimum wage was 80,000 forints net. At the same time, the proportion of dorms has barely increased, while the prices of rents, especially in the capital, have increased to multiples. Jobbik has long urged that this problem complex be resolved as soon as possible and that there be a significant increase in scholarships, both on a learning basis and on a need-based basis. In this regard, the National Conference of Students' Local Governments recently made a comprehensive proposal to the Government. We think it's worth considering. I would like to ask the Secretary of State when the government intends to finally increase the amount of student allowances and scholarships due on the basis of the above. What does the government intend to do to improve the deteriorating financial conditions of higher education students? Does the government plan to expand the capacity of higher education colleges or to renovate existing ones? I look forward to your substantive answer. Thank you. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2016-10-10-182	Thank you very much, Congressman. The answer will be given by Secretary of State László Palkovics. Here you go.
u2016-10-10-183	Dear House, Honourable Congressman, Thank you for asking. With a significant part of these, the Member is banging open gates, so much so that in the higher education strategy we have described the timetable as we move forward with these matters. At the moment, the Ministry is working on a financing regulation. We will present this in about a month. And the next regulation, which you referred to, and which we started negotiations with the student council this summer, is the transformation of the student's allowance decree and its approximation to real costs. So in this case, the EMMI bill will be published soon. As regards your question on colleges, I would like to inform you that in the last few weeks there has been a very competitive college survey programme. The experts of the Budapest University of Technology visited virtually every college in the country, and a presentation was made of it. The dorm situation is indeed not satisfactory at all, a significant part of the dorms were made in the 1960s and 1970s, then designed and completed. In this programme, we have determined how the situation will change in the coming period. Moreover, the distribution of dormitory seats in the country is not even uniform, it is basically Budapest, which did not benefit from the dormitory seats during the previous period. On average, we have set an average increase of 8 percent. This concerns about 123 colleges. Within the framework of this programme, we propose the renovation and establishment of 37 467 seats between 2016 and 2023. At the moment, there is a HUF 21 billion college renewal and college building programme in several parts of the country, in Budapest and partly in rural cities. This material is, by the way, a substitute, such an analysis has not been carried out in recent years, and this is also linked to the benefit regulation. I would also like to add that a series of opportunities have been created by the higher education strategy, where students, for example, in the framework of dual training, can alleviate the financing problems that you have referred to. Thank you. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-10-10-184	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Congresswoman Erzsébet Schmuck, head of the LMP Group, wishes to ask the President of the Hungarian National Bank a question: "Does the President of the National Bank use the home of the President of the Bank Association, and on what basis? It's an address. The word belongs to Ms. Erzsébet Schmuck. [[16.30]]
u2016-10-10-185	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, According to press reports, the President of the National Bank of Hungary uses a luxury apartment in a castle owned by Mihály Patai, President of the Banking Association, who is also the Chairman and CEO of UniCredit Bank. The market rent of the apartment is estimated to be 1 million HUF per month, although until now it is not known whether the President of the Central Bank will pay at all. If he doesn't pay, it's a criminal category, and he raises suspicion of bribery. The MNB also carries out the public oversight of financial institutions. In this way, György Matolcsy rents a flat from a player, has a business relationship with him, who is otherwise subject to supervision, regulation or conflict in financial policy steps. So here's what I'm asking you. Does György Matolcsy use the apartment owned by Mihály Patai or any of his companies? Does György Matolcsy pay rent, and if so, how much? The head of the public body supervising financial institutions is of the opinion that LMP should not be a person who has such a close relationship, has business relations with the chairman of the association of supervised entities and the head of one of the supervised banks. This is unacceptable. So I'm asking you, thirdly, will György Matolcsy resign? Thank you in advance for your reply.
u2016-10-10-186	Thank you very much, Madam Group leader. I give the floor to Vice-President Martin the Great for a two-minute answer. Here you go.
u2016-10-10-187	Thank you very much. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Dear House, I would like to inform Congresswoman that György Matolcsy's declared permanent residence is 8172 Balatonakarattya, 26 Republic Street, where he has his own property. That's the public interest data. As far as UniCredit is concerned, the activities of money market participants are always assessed impartially and transparently by the central bank. The activities of UniCredit Bank, mentioned by you, are supervised by the MNB, like the other institutions. In the case of UniCredit Bank, for example, several supervisory fines have been imposed since 2013, for example, this year UniCredit Bank received a HUF 5.2 million supervisory penalty in February for several minor infringements, while in June it received a HUF 1.5 million supervisory penalty from the Hungarian National Bank. Finally, György Matolcsy's divorce is a private matter, and the personal change does not affect the professional activities of the Hungarian National Bank in any way. All decisions of the central bank shall be taken with sufficient professional integrity, impartiality and transparency. Thank you. [[It's a rare round of applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-10-10-188	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Parliament, Congressman Miklós Simon, representative of Fidesz, wishes to ask the Minister of National Economy:. 400 new jobs will be created in Nyírbátor! How does Rosenberger's new investment help the East Hungarian region to catch up? It's an address. Congressman Miklós Simon has the floor. Here you go, Congressman.
u2016-10-10-189	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, The favourable labour market trends continue in Hungary, as competitive investment in job creation plays an increasingly important role in the continuous improvement of employment. In recent years, a total of 2500-3000 new jobs have been created in the competition sector in Nyírség. [[Dr. Lajos Szűcs is replaced by László Földi in the notary seat.]] I would like to highlight last year, when more than a thousand new jobs were created in Nyírbátor's area. There have been significant job creations of hundreds of people, including at Nyírgelsei Wing Lászőhíd, Tranzit Food Ltd., at Coloplast in Nyirbátor and at Diehl Aircabin Hungary Kft., the company that also manufactures birbátor and aircraft parts. Now it has been announced that one of the largest automotive investors, the German company Rosenberger, is making an investment worth 3.1 billion forints, giving a living to another 400 people. Needless to say, the appearance of such an employer in Nyírbátor, near the Romanian border, in Eastern Hungary, results in great progress. Such and similar success stories are not independent of the fact that the economic environment in Hungary is now stable and predictable. I respectfully ask, today more than 440 thousand people work in the competition sector in Hungary, how Rosenberger's new investment helps to catch up with the East-Hungarian region. [[It's a rare round of applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-10-10-190	Thank you very much, Congressman. The answer will be given by Secretary of State Péter Cseresnyés. Here you go.
u2016-10-10-191	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, In answer to your question, of course, these 400 new jobs are a major step in the area of market employment in this disadvantaged area. In addition to increasing the number of jobs, as you have said, I would like to present the national figures, since the 2010 government change, 680 thousand more people have been working in our country, of which the competition sector is showing an increase of about 450 thousand people. One of our priority employment policy objectives is to reduce the territorial differences in the labour market by gradually catching up with disadvantaged areas. This is why we have developed a system of regulation and support that directs investors towards disadvantaged areas. The government set up free business zones in 2013 for the priority development of disadvantaged areas, where companies can benefit significantly more from subsidies and discounts for the creation of new jobs. The German company Rosenberger, a manufacturer of automotive parts, also supports the fact that this policy is successful. The government contributed HUF 858 million from the investment promotion target to the greenfield investment worth HUF 3.1 billion. The company's development plans, which will create new jobs for around 400 people in the region, are also supported by the National Employment Fund instruments, and the preparation of additional job creation support is currently under way. This is expected to be decided in the coming months. Thus, repeating once again my first sentence, the 400 new jobs are obviously of great importance in improving employment data and employment in the region. Thank you for your attention.
u2016-10-10-192	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Mr Lajos Korózs, representative of the MSZP, would like to ask the Minister of Human Resources:. What do the results of the government's cruel social policy show? How many people have been deprived of social support in the last six years? It's an address. Congressman Lajos Korózs has the floor. Here you go.
u2016-10-10-193	Thank you very much. Dear Secretary of State, Dear House, Since the government's reign in 2010, many poor people have been further crippled. Their first measure was to reduce net wages for public work by 20 percent, and their second measure was to reduce social benefits by 20 percent, more precisely social assistance. Six forms of supply were subsequently abolished in March of last year. It is true that the previous two did not fall into your undersecretary of state, but the last six measures, in fact, were one measure, but six elements of it were already the fruit of your activity. The housing allowance was abolished, the public health care services were taken away, the equity care fee, the debt management service, the kindergarten support ceased on 1 September, and the regular social assistance was abolished. Of course, we could say that these were not significant amounts, since one housing allowance was about a few thousand forints. But to these people, it meant life. To these people, it meant that the service provider didn't shut down the power and that the children could study in electric light. Look, in light of this, it's particularly important to talk about this, in my opinion, when government members travel by helicopter to get married and have fun like party barons. I think it is a shame for the world to see on one side that 4.2 million people now live below the minimum living standards in Hungary, even as calculated by the Hungarian Central Statistical Office. They're ordering KSH not to count such statistical data in the future, not to do minimum existential research. Do they fight poverty by stopping measuring it? That is why I ask how many people and how many families have been taken away, how much money has been saved and how much these forms of care have been reduced. Thank you very much. [[16.40]]
u2016-10-10-194	Thank you very much, Congressman. The answer will be given by Secretary of State Károly Czibere. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2016-10-10-195	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear House, Honourable Congressman, The government's objective is to operate a fair, sustainable, transparent and targeted social care system, which builds on the individual's responsibility for himself, the involvement of local communities, the principle of creating employment opportunities and ensuring job opportunities and transparency instead of aid. These are the principles on the basis of which the social assistance scheme was transformed on 1 March. As a result of the measures implemented, the most important element is that, for 20 years, the State's and local authorities have previously ceased to have a very opaque, confusing, inter-divided responsibility. It's very clear who's responsible for what. The state is responsible for income compensation, 100% in public funding, 100% in public administration. The municipalities are fully responsible for the expenditure compensation, this is the other pillar, and they can provide this in the form of municipal aid. [[Interjection from the lines of the MSZP: From what?]] Local governments have a budget of more than HUF 30 billion each year to finance municipal aid. Another important element is that social law sets out the specific terms for which settlement aid should be determined, and there are cases of exceptional municipal aid where, in a situation of danger - social law 7. § - it must be established. I believe that transparency and legal certainty have been increased, that the system of social support for expenditure compensation and income compensation has been separated. We believe that further maiming does not stand in place, as the poverty statistics of the last three years show that there has been a trend turn and that all poverty numbers and risk numbers have started to improve. As regards the old-age pension minimum, we will examine the possibility of a differentiated or uniform increase. Thank you very much.
u2016-10-10-196	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Congressman Balázs Ander, representative of Jobbik, asked the Minister of Human Resources:. Integration on Gypsy Road? It's an address. Congressman Ander Balázs has the floor. Here you go, Congressman.
u2016-10-10-197	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, The purpose of education and education is the future. In good times, the growing-up generation will already receive this in the family, but that, in the light of the sobering words of the Borsod Gypsy Butterfly, I should ask: what is there in places where they do not recognize that the child is not an animal but a responsibility? Unfortunately, in many places, the basic cell of society, the family, can no longer provide adequate background for children, the XX. Two-and-a-half decades of social disintegration and crisis have led to an increase in the number of years since the political change of the 20th century. Yet, the proportion of future generations that will be taxpayers or aided does not matter. The sociocultural misery and anti-culture of opt-out are also hotbeds of crime. Moreover, as László Bogár put it, material, physical and spiritual, moral and spiritual degradation is pushing an increasing proportion of childbirths into the world of those living in the most miserable conditions. The government does nothing, even as Konrad Solomon wrote: the Hungarian school system collapsed, because schools are largely completed or abandoned by the masses of uneducated and uneducated young people who are not fit to work and refuse to comply with the most basic rules of social co-existence. So what should this school system do with those from domestic no-go zones whose family role models are criminals, their pets are pit bulls and rottweilers, and they have come to know the world of drugs very early, and nothing else besides that? Why can't it be done in time to save the eligible ones from creating a residential school network from which children who have been thrown into the abyss by the negative patterns of their own family environment can bring home other standards and culture that are hope for a better life? Wouldn't it be more appropriate to prevent the theft of the billions of integrations and finally redirect integration to the Gypsy route? I'm looking forward to your reply. Thank you. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2016-10-10-198	Thank you very much, Congressman. The answer will be given by Secretary of State Károly Czibere. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2016-10-10-199	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear House, Honourable Congressman, Before responding substantially to what has been said, it should be noted that the issue itself has been formulated with a negative edge that does not affect social integration and the building of a constrictive society, nor does it point to a real perception of problems behind these phenomena. [[Ander Balázs: Yes!]] That pit bulls, rottweilers and drugs. [[A statement from Jobbik: It is the truth!]] I think I should be the one to apologize to the Roma families for you. [[Intruder from Jobbik's ranks, the pit bulls!]] due to extreme generalization on the issue. It does not in any way help the interests of this system. [[Dr. István Apáti: Please move into a settlement. I'd be happy to take Mr. Secretary of State for a ride to Satmar.]] this type of wording and this type of problem. We believe that the catch-up strategy itself and its number one pillar, the help of children, basically includes the tools and programmes that reflect the aim of catching up on how to prevent a vicious cycle of re-production of misery. If you knew our program, which would be called the "Secret Start" house, or, for example, compulsory kindergartening or the expansion of free children's meals at two paces - this year, for all breaks - or the provision of free textbooks [[Dr. István Apáti: This is not helping! They're burning the textbook. It'll be fun to light up. It's like the window frame of the soccer house.]] All this means that these children can be helped in time to avoid crumbling, leaving school, and helping their school effectiveness. This, I think, is the goal that this society needs, not the proposal that you are proposing. I think we should help these children in their families. If you knew the model of the "Definite start" house, you would know that the child and the parent will be helped at the same time, and this is what is truly effective, not that we are taking these children out of the family to protect them or help them in a completely different way. The principle of children's rights is that they must be helped in the family in which they can make the best use of it. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the Fidesz ranks.]]
u2016-10-10-200	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Dear fellow Members, Congressman Sallai R. Benedek, representative of the LMP, would like to ask the Minister of the Interior a question, "Why do the villages at the head of the public works programme fall away from state firewood support?" It's an address. Congressman Sallai R. Benedek has the floor. Here you go.
u2016-10-10-201	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, No politics, just friendly interest. Many Fidesz municipalities have also been put in the position of doing everything they can to achieve the best possible public works programmes and to achieve an employment rate of up to 100% in their settlements. Indeed, many small settlement municipalities can produce significant results with Start Public Works programmes and spectacular results. However, unfortunately, what we are seeing now is that settlements that have performed outstandingly in this area are excluded from the list of disadvantaged settlements, and therefore those living there, although everyone is practically in public work, cannot benefit from preferential buying of firewood. This is obvious, and it is also regrettable, because, while the heads of the state forestry industry pay more than twice or three times the salary of the Prime Minister, and the waste of the operation of the public forestry sector has already been made public, it would be very, very good to help settlements that have fulfilled the government's efforts to try to give jobs on the ground to as many people as possible. Last year, a year ago, I raised this question here. Secretary of State L. Simon László said that they recognised the performance of these settlements, and accordingly they will look for the possibility that people living there who do not live in a better way than those settlements where they may be able to maintain a disadvantaged municipal title will also receive firewood support. It's been a year. Unfortunately, we don't know the results in this case. I would like to ask you with respect whether you see any chance that the inhabitants of these settlements will not be at any disadvantage, and that the municipalities will be able to help those living there with preferential buying of firewood and support. That's what I'd expect to hear from you respectfully. Thank you for the floor, Mr President.
u2016-10-10-202	Thank you very much, Congressman. The answer will be given by Secretary of State Tibor Pogácsás. Here you go, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor.
u2016-10-10-203	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, First of all, I think it is worth clarifying how the municipalities can help their inhabitants. Each municipality can use municipal subsidies to deliver to it its intention, whether for winter fuel or in cash or in firewood. [[16.50]] In addition, since 2011, the Ministry of Interior has provided municipalities with a framework from which they can buy winter fuel and give it to those in need. So here the winter fuel is purchased by the municipalities, the Ministry of Interior provides the necessary resources for this. Each settlement with a population of less than 5 thousand may participate in this programme, regardless of its tax capacity or status. So every settlement less than 5,000 inhabitants can participate. Indeed, the program is popular, since 2185 municipalities submitted applications for this option last year and 2291 municipalities submitted applications this year. The number of public workers or participation in public employment is not a disadvantage in this programme, but the number of public workers is taken into account as a positive factor in the amount of aid that can be given or granted from this year to one settlement, so where the number of public workers is higher than the number of inhabitants of the settlements, we form a ratio, where we provide a source of opportunity to buy more firewood. So the number of people employed in the settlement is not a disadvantage in this case, but an explicit advantage. Thank you for the floor, Mr President. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-10-10-204	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, That concludes the questions. It is now time for a series of proposals to be discussed. The MSZP Group has proposed that the Parliament decide on the entry and residence of third-country nationals II of 2007 in order to abolish the State bond of establishment. T/12065. Bill No. 1 on inclusion in the series of articles. The series of articles was rejected by the Economic Committee. First I give the floor to the author, within a five-minute time frame. From among the authors, Mrs Márta Demeter will be the spokesperson for the authors. Here you go.
u2016-10-10-205	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Fellow Members! Lords of the Secretary of State and Minister of State! This offshore business with settlement bonds, which the governing parties have been doing in the past, I think is one of the worst scandals in corruption cases, absolutely defenceless, so it seems that in terms of corruption, they are not trying to remedy corruption and eliminate corruption more and more, but they are increasingly seeking a world record on this issue. If something threatens Hungary's sovereignty, for example, this offshore business with settlement bonds does this absolutely, because we have seen that with a start in 2013, with the approval of the Economic Commission, a task that the Hungarian State would otherwise do to sell state bonds was simply handed to offshore companies, companies with completely opaque backgrounds, which otherwise do not pay taxes in Hungary. Thus, in the last three years, these offshore companies have had over HUF 100 billion in extra profit on the sale of settlement bonds. We understand that, by the way, Antal Rogán needs to have a helicopter ride, but I think it's an exaggeration. The essence of the construction: you can obtain a lifelong residence permit for only EUR 300 thousand in Hungary, which also provides free movement in the Schengen area; these people do business, bank, do whatever they want. So I think the whole situation is indefensible. According to the Ministry of Interior, more than 17,000 people were lured to Hungary, while, as we know, anti-immigration campaigns and hysteria campaigns were conducted for nearly HUF 20 billion. From the sale of these settlement bonds, if you stop this business now, the Hungarian State already has a HUF 330 billion payment obligation towards these companies and people. The first bond will expire in 2018, where the payment obligation will enter into force. So the Hungarian taxpayers have already committed 330 billion forints, so Hungarian taxpayers have to drink the chance to put 100 billion forints into their pockets by the way of Fidesz-near, buddy offshore companies. Whatever they claim that it is important for the state to be able to finance itself, the Hungarian state would be able to finance itself at a much cheaper rate, since those who are currently buying government bonds with this construction will receive a quadruple return. So in Hungarian: it would be possible to finance the Hungarian state with a quarter of a return, and this is in addition to the hundred billion-dollar extra-profit to offshore companies, it has already caused a loss of 6 billion to the Hungarian state. These companies do not tax in Hungary, it is clear from the answers they have given at all, because we can see that here all kinds of business secrets and investment secrets, which, I think, is preposterous. You can come here with this construction working in other countries, but in other countries it is not possible - if there is something unical in Hungary, it is very much love for this term, it is also absolute - that offshore companies sell such a construction; and they expect substantial investment, presence, longer years of value-making activity from these people, not as in Hungary, that they will otherwise receive a residence permit for EUR 300 thousand within 30 days, and there is no need to show anything in particular. It is not true that the quadruple control system is working well, and it has clearly been proven in several cases that even convicted criminals could buy settlement bonds and obtain a residence permit. So not only Hungary, but also the security of the European Union. This is an untenable situation, which is why we have submitted our bill, which would immediately stop this offshore business, which you have started, would immediately be cleared, publicly reported to the managers of all these offshore companies, as well as to the companies themselves, in full public terms, and would be subject to a 75% tax on the activities so far. So this whole offshore business has to be suspended. [[The President shall ring a bell to indicate the expiry of the time limit.]] In no way can you talk about sovereignty or security, when with this decision, if you do not support our proposal, you will also provide Hungary and the security of the Union. Thank you.
u2016-10-10-206	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Now, one representative per group of representatives can present his position in a two-minute time frame and the first independent Member who is asked to speak in a two-minute time frame. First, I give the floor from the Jobbik Group to Congressman Gábor Staudt. Here you go, Congressman.
u2016-10-10-207	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, Jobbik has opposed this construction from the beginning, and I have to say that the accusations or suspicions that arose at the beginning come back in the most harsh way; I would also say that what you have done in practice has surpassed all imagination. It's not just that there are more than 100 billion forints in the news that these mostly offshore companies have been doing so much, it's one of the half of it. They do nothing but take the people they want to settle down and take them to foreign representations. They have nothing else to do, and they can't be bypassed even if someone thinks they're volunteering for foreign representation; not to mention, they're now buying in an extra return of four times the return on the market. [[He replaced the gullible Dezső in the notary seat with Loránt Hegedűs.]] It can also be a very important aspect that we can now talk not only about greed but also about national security risks. [[Lajos Korózs: That's right!]] 'Cause it's true that convicted criminals have played the very strict 4 filter you're saying here, and they're constantly saying it on behalf of the Ministry of the Interior. You don't even care who did this, they didn't open an investigation, they didn't ask the Hungarian Nation for the data that they couldn't write, because then they could have tried. They say cynically that everything is fine, while nearly 18,000 people and family members were brought into the European Union and Hungary. If someone paid this amount - and not as a job-creating investment, because they could not answer what benefit the Hungarian nation had from the fact that these people appeared here, we expected them to create jobs, and we expected them to generate any economic benefits for the Hungarian state, the Hungarian people. They could not prove this, so this did not happen - the construction must be terminated. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]] [[17.00]]
u2016-10-10-208	Thank you very much, Congressman. Ms Erzsébet Schmuck asked for the floor from the LMP Group. Here you go.
u2016-10-10-209	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. There is no question that LMP supports MSZMP's bill... - MSZP [[Defiance in Jobbik's ranks.]] that the establishment government bond scheme should be terminated immediately. In our view, this system could not have been introduced and created at all. We have said many times that the settlement policy is not in the country's best interest at all, and it does not bring any benefits to the budget. The settlement policy only serves the Oligarchs of Fidesz, which are enveloped in anonymity through offshore companies. Billions wander into private pockets, huge business for a few. He only made HUF 5 billion in paperwork at the settlement bond business at the law firm connected to Antal Rogán. Let's see the numbers. The price of a settlement policy is HUF 92 million, but it is sold at discount prices by the state to the brokerage company. By selling a settlement policy, the intermediary company will pocket more than HUF 20 million with the brokerage fee and discount price. Overall, so far, the country has lost about HUF 100 billion in this business. There is another aspect of the immediate termination of the settlement policy, namely the risk of national security. Even at the beginning of the sale of the bonds, it was known that there was a huge security gap in the system, but it is now reported that several of the criminals who had been convicted have been able to get a residence permit in Hungary. It is also important to see that with the settlement obligation, the Hungarian government has already installed a small town of immigrants in Hungary, in total more than 16,000 people have become entitled if the relatives are counted. We're not talking about a few people, we're talking about masses that you probably don't have the capacity to scan. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] At the moment, to the services. Thank you for your attention. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2016-10-10-210	Thank you very much, Madam Group leader. From the group of the MSZP, Mr Nándor Gúr is coming to a two-minute speech. However, before I give the floor, I would like to thank you for your cooperation and give the chair to Vice-President Sándor Lezsák. Here you go, notary. [[Sándor Lezsák, vice-president of the Parliament takes the chair.]]
u2016-10-10-211	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Antal Rogán - Antal Rogán, who likes to use the helicopter, did not deal with this at the time, but with the possibility for offshore or offshore companies to implement a resettlement programme in Hungary within the framework of the Economic Committee. There are nearly 17,000 people from the third world, especially from China, but also from other countries. I have to say that this activity is accompanied by a fabulously successful profit for some people, for friends, for people and for those who suffer, for those who pay for all of this - because all the benefits that friends put in their pockets will be repaid by Hungarian citizens - while calling for national security risks or even public security risks, Russian criminals and many others will find Hungary and Europe. It would be simpler and easier and cheaper to finance from the market today, as they do through the settlement policy, and therefore it is unreasonable what they are doing, and again it is at the expense of the Hungarian people. But the point is, this story is dishonest, even because it is not for the benefit of a far-reaching majority of people, but it is for the sake of people, it is for the sake of the people. It is not random that this initiative is about ending and ending this project, this resettlement project, and, in addition, making ex post account of the rich profits of friends. My fellow Member Rogan needs to make sure that less money goes into the hands of his friends and into the moonyard. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] What they don't know is what to spend it on. Mr. President, thank you very much.
u2016-10-10-212	Thank you very much. I respectfully welcome my fellow Members and ask if anyone else wishes to speak. [[No one's reporting.]] I don't see any contact. Then I will give the floor - I see you are preparing - to Congresswoman Márta Demeter, who wishes to respond to what has been said in the debate. You have the floor, Congresswoman.
u2016-10-10-213	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Thank you to the factions that support our proposal. I'm still asking the Fidesz faction to reconsider their position, and think about it, because a very interesting example of this whole case, for example, was that there was an offshore company that had received a license from the Fidesz majority of the Economic Commission to sell settlement bonds and constructions before the company had been registered, so I think it shows about everything in the case. It is clear that the government has already handed over Hungary's sovereignty to Fidesz-near offshore companies, and these companies have virtually no control over who can get a permit to live, passport, and related discounts, and now these companies can sell these discounts on credit. I think the situation is getting worse in this case. The only solution is to suspend the existence of this bond scheme and to ensure that these companies are accounted for. If you do not support our proposal, the admission that any offshore business can take place in Hungary for filling a few pockets, whether with government support or the assistance of Hungarian state bodies, which, I think, is much worse than the current examples that have been presented so far and far beyond. Therefore, the Hungarian taxpayers will pay the price for this, the price will be very, very expensive, and if the majority of the government now does not support our proposal, then, I think, not after such a long time, a lot of people will not forget this thing, and we will return to it, and there must be accountability in this regard, not just in the case of offshore companies. Thank you. [[Interview from the ranks of the MSZP: That's right! Applause in the same place.]]
u2016-10-10-214	Thank you very much, Congresswoman Márta Demeter. Dear Parliament, The decision will take place on tomorrow's meeting. Dear Parliament, The Jobbik Group has proposed that the Parliament decide on the amendment of certain laws relating to the remuneration of mayors of small settlements T/11023. Bill No. 1 on inclusion in a series of articles. The series of articles was rejected by the Committee on Budgets. Dear Parliament, First, I give the floor to the rapporteur, Mrs Loránt Hegedűs, a better Member, within a five-minute timeframe.
u2016-10-10-215	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, I can no longer count, I am submitting this bill to the House for the last time, and I am trying to convince you, for the last time, that what you have done wrong, my honourable members of the government, namely that after 2014, the salaries and salaries of small-town mayors have fallen roughly, we are trying to correct the mistake that we have made. I know that I was not the only one who initiated this; the MSZP, our fellow Member LMP and even István Happy would have tried to bring this to the House more than once - without success so far. Now I'd like to offer you another opportunity to put on your desk. I am convinced that the decline in the welfare of these small town mayors does not reflect their responsible and sacrificial work. We know - and I have said this many times - that in this way it is possible that the monthly income of the mayor of a settlement under 500 may be less than the wages of the public employee he employs. I think it would be very important at last for this institution, the mayor's institution, to re-raise its authority to the rank that they could at least get before the 2014 elections, which they could at least enjoy. We would like to increase the salary for two categories of settlements: we would like to raise one, the one under 500 from 20 percent to 40 percent and the other from 30 percent to 50 percent. [[17.10]] There have been a lot of debates in this House on this issue, and I think that the proposals that the House could have discussed recently in a series of subjects would have offered a perverse solution; as well as the law that is now part of the 2017 Budget Act, namely that the salaries of municipal civil servants could be diverted from their own revenue by the local governments. We know that this opportunity cannot be managed by the small settlements concerned, because they do not have enough of their own income to do so. Or if they have their own income, it's because they tax the people so much either with local taxes or with municipal taxes. In any case, this must be re-indebted to the population, and this solution is unacceptable to us. That is why I propose in this law that we amend the budget law at the same time. I am saying this now, because it has been suggested at the committee meeting that if you were to make the technical objection to this House that this cannot be done in this form because the procedure for this is different, I would suggest that you submit an amendment. We are open to anything, but please support the substantial part of the proposal that changes be made in the categories of municipal law. Later on, the budgetary law can be amended in this way. I have also had countless amendments, not only in the form of such a separate bill, but also within the budget law, to find the place and order of how this could be settled within the budget, how much it would cost the country. Please, if the House were to vote on this at this moment, there would not be a total of one billion this year, but the proposal that we have put before you does not exceed the two-and-a-half-billion proposal overall. This is the magnitude by which Árpád Ibizan Habony goes into that club every day or receives tax relief from one of your pets, Andy Vajna, for, say, a six-month period. So I think that there would be a way and an opportunity for this law to be voted in favour of and to address this problem by changing the budget in the future. Thank you so much for listening. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2016-10-10-216	Thank you very much, Mrs Loránt Hegedűs. Dear Parliament, Now, one representative per group of representatives can present his position in a two-minute time frame and the first independent Member who is asked to speak in a two-minute time frame. First, I give the floor to Congressman László Varga, MSZP.
u2016-10-10-217	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear fellow Members, Dear Secretary of State, We have tabled a similar proposal to settle this issue. Not for nothing, for we see the sacrifice that small town mayors carry out, and we see how they are not paid for it. He also argued that there are clearly situations in which the public worker makes more money in a settlement than the mayor, as the case may be. This condition is untenable. I can tell you that in Borsod-Abaúj-Zemplén County, we have encountered many of these situations. We therefore support the proposal to be brief, and it is obviously also true that many, within the framework of a wide range of parties, even a pro-government Member submitted such a proposal. Actually, it doesn't make much sense why this issue hasn't been resolved in the last two years. One aspect of this question has not been raised. Obviously, in small settlements with a difficult fate, from which there is a great migration, it may arise who will take on this noble public mandate in 2019, who will be running for election. If the community is so unable, the state pays for this sacrifice, then, unfortunately, fewer people who are actually accepted in the local community will take this position. Finally, the argument is that there are so many irritating things in the budget and how many irritating luxury investments there are. Therefore, it cannot be argued that the budgetary implications of this cannot be achieved and that such appropriations could not be allocated. One question needs to be asked themselves, since most individual Members are fidesz, and they certainly talk a lot to small town mayors. You must ask yourself whether you really want to solve this problem. We are partners in this, we support the proposal. I ask you and the MPs to support this. Thank you very much.
u2016-10-10-218	Thank you very much, Congressman Varga. The Jobbik opinion will be delivered in two minutes by Congressman István Apáti.
u2016-10-10-219	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, Prime Minister Viktor Orbán answered one of András Schiffer's old immediate questions, and I quote literally: Since I have spent most of my life in settlements of less than two thousand people, I know that there is no need for full-time mayors. Well, the Prime Minister was wrong. He doesn't usually admit it, he can't bear the criticism and the truth, but it has to be said that he lived most of his life in the capital, so this part of the sentence is no longer true. Because if he had lived in the countryside, he would have answered the exact opposite of the fact that there is a great need for mayors with full-time or even social duties, paid fairly in settlements under two thousand people. It's interesting that when you read the insufferable salaries on your head, the answer is always that you get paid for the work you've done. Then why aren't the mayors of the small settlements true? Why can't they understand that the small town mayor is more than a classic political leader in the settlement? He's a shepherd of the community. People need to be held by their hands, they need to be dealt with in virtually a lot of difficult things that the mayor doesn't have to do in office, not have to do in a job. A series of challenges must be met that are never taught anywhere, in any university, college, or school, and a series of obligations that everyday life hangs or hangs around mayors' necks. It often exceeds eight hours a day. Compared to this, they are underpaid, neither social nor material. That is why we are asking you to dismiss or deviate from the bad habit of... - this has now been submitted by other groups or other Members. They're trying to think about the unfair position they've put their own mayors in many cases. Do not strengthen the contrast by giving low salaries, and do not try to drive these mayors on a bad path or corruption or force them to do so. Let's eliminate these risks, minimize these threats. I would very much ask you to reconsider and support our proposal. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2016-10-10-220	Thank you, Congressman Abbot. In the next two minutes, Mr Sallai R. Benedek presented the opinion of the LMP.
u2016-10-10-221	Thank you for the floor, Mr. President. I look around the room, and I don't know who to address my words to, because there are many MPs in the ranks of Fidesz who have not only small settlements in their constituency, but also led such a small settlement. Therefore, as much as we do, you are aware of the unworthy situation that the regulation creates in relation to the wages of these small town mayors. In the autumn of 2014, I thought it was a simple election scam, and all that makes sense is to scare off potential start-ups. After that, however, I was shocked to find that this error would not be corrected, and they continued to keep the income of small-town mayors at such a low, unworthy level, which is roughly the unacceptable category. My colleague Mrs Loránt Hegedűs and I have tried this proposal on several occasions, as she said, because it is incomprehensible to us how the government can give up on small settlements. How can the pro-government majority resign when the individual elected parliamentary representatives of these small settlements sit in their factions, and part of their voters are people living in such small settlements? Obviously, I understand that the system of foamism that lives with us does not allow us to concentrate on small voting communities, when buying cities with county rights can achieve larger masses. Nevertheless, it is obvious that the vast majority of the settlements of Hungary are settlements with a population of less than five thousand, whose long-term destiny depends very much on how they are led and what people are at the forefront. In addition to the current income factors, it is not possible to find the best, most prepared and most suitable people, but where these people are at the head of settlements at the moment, they cannot be made impossible because they are carrying out the public task. That is why I ask you in the ranks of Fidesz that, once you are aware of this problem, you convince your fellow political groups or government to support this proposal and make substantial progress in this matter. Thank you for the floor, Mr President. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]] [[17.20]]
u2016-10-10-222	Thank you very much, Congressman Sallai. The next speaker is Mr István Happy, Fidesz.
u2016-10-10-223	Mr. President. Dear Parliament, I would like to remind my fellow Members that, almost a year ago, small town mayors could receive more salaries if there had been even one Member on the opposition side last December when we voted on this issue, who would have voted on it. None of you voted for it. Then, of course, they built a nice political campaign for this, went from settlement to settlement, and said that they were sorry that there was no more wages for small town mayors. I think that with 20 years of experience as mayor, I can safely say that small town mayors need to be full-time - in certain settlements, obviously, where there is no need - and also to receive a recognised and worthy salary for their work. I am proud that in my area, at the time of the referendum, the mayors of all 23 settlements, including the mayors of small settlements, have signed a declaration in which they have jointly asked voters to participate in the referendum, and they have also taken action to participate. It also shows that the mayors, when it comes to big issues, can unite regardless of their party standing, do not matter whether they are from Jobbik, the Socialist Party or the Fidesz. It also shows that they always work for people, and they always try to do as much as possible. The truth is, Congresswoman, your proposal, as I said at the committee meeting, was too late. Such a proposal has already been made before the House T/10533. My proposal, which is waiting for it to be put on the agenda, is subject to a series of issues. I think that if they see that this is not appropriate, then it will be necessary, when we start negotiating and submitting amendments, that I would be very happy to take as rapporteur the amendments then, of course. So I would ask that, next time my proposal comes before this House, you should support it, even submit an amendment to it, and when it comes to the vote, do not act as you did last December, not to vote for it, but to support it with your vote. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of Fidesz.]]
u2016-10-10-224	Thank you very much, Congressman István Happy. No other speakers came forward. I'll ask... [[For signal:]] But I do not ask, I see that Mrs. Loránt Hegedűs, the rapporteur, wishes to respond to what has been said in two minutes.
u2016-10-10-225	My dear, happy fellow Member, I would be the happiest if your proposal were not just a series of subjects, but that it would finally be on the table before the House. We've been waiting almost six months, including myself, to finally vote on your proposal. Did it occur to you why your own faction doesn't want to bring that proposal to the House? Why don't they want to solve this problem? And when you presented the particular proposal that you were talking about, why did you put forward a perverse proposal that would not have been a solution? Because they could have really raised the mayor's salary, but they're not giving us any money. Now, this proposal, which lies before you, solves this very question. This question would finally be resolved, and I ask you to support it, because this question, in fact, as a drop in the sea, shows the fate of Fidesz for the countryside, if the mayor, which they consider not to be an office worthy of recognition, doesn't need authority, doesn't need to be added a penny, either way, nor can he receive a salary, nor is it financed from the central budget, it's not helped. Of course, as my fellow Member, István Apáti, has just said, who will take this position in the future. You do not want to correct this mistake on purpose, because you do not want to correct it because, we know, you have already said on several occasions that you are expected to have a mayor's office in less than 5,000 people after the merger. Actually, that's the goal. Not only do they want to destroy the mayor's office, stripped of its authority, but they will also bring together the mayor's offices, and ultimately they will bring the municipalities together. That's the real purpose, that's why they don't want to tell me. That's something you should say sometime. Let's be brave, confess the truth about what your real purpose is. Thank you so much for listening. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2016-10-10-226	Thank you very much, Mrs Loránt Hegedűs, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, The decision will take place on tomorrow's meeting. Dear Parliament, The Commission's reports on the publication of the Agreement between the Government of Hungary and the Government of Australia on the programme of temporary work and the discussion of the summarised amendment will follow. The government referral T/1231. a serial number and the Commission's non-autonomous texts are available on the parliamentary IT network. Dear Parliament, The debate will be the first to present the position of the Legislative Committee within a 15-minute time frame. I give the floor to Congressman László Vécsey, rapporteur of the committee.
u2016-10-10-227	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, At the meeting of the Legislative Committee on 6 October 2016, the members of the Committee held the debate on the publication of the agreement between the Government of Hungary and the Government of Australia on the temporary work programme for tourists T/1131. About bill No. 1. The board of the house rules 46. It submitted a proposal for amendment and a summary report by 33 votes in favour, thus unanimously. The draft amending proposal contains the amendment proposed by the Committee on Foreign Affairs, which basically contains technical specifications. The primary objective of the bill is to support young people, and it will be very important for young people between 18 and 30 years of age who, in the framework of the agreement with Australia, will finally have an opportunity to manage their lives in this remote country, on a distant continent, and without this bill, they will most likely not be able to do so. They are also given a chance to meet the Hungarians living there - there is a large Hungarian colony in Australia - and to cultivate our traditions, to introduce them, to establish friendships and to establish new relationships. With the adoption of the bill, therefore, some new personal relationships and friendly relations can be built between the two countries and between Hungarians outside and the younger Hungarians, but, no doubt, this bill also includes additional great opportunities from the perspective of the two countries. That is why I ask my fellow Members to support the bill and thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-10-10-228	Thank you, Congressman Vecsey. I'll ask the author if he'd like to speak now. [[Contra on Charles' signal:]] Yeah, he wants me at the end. You'll have a ten-minute window, Mr. Secretary. Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, The designated Committee on Foreign Affairs did not draft a rapporteur. It is now up to Members to take part in the time-frames on the agenda. There is no possibility of a two-minute comment during the debate. I give the floor first to Congresswoman Mária Demeter [[Interview from the ranks of the MSZP: Martha!]] , Congresswoman Márta Demeter, Hungarian Socialist Party.
u2016-10-10-229	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, The agreement that is in front of us makes it possible to implement a programme where citizens aged between 18 and 30 years of age from the two countries concerned can stay in the territory of the other country for a maximum of 200 to 200 persons per year and, in addition to the fact that this stay is not primarily intended for employment but for tourism, yet, if certain conditions are met, they may temporarily work in each other's territory. In this agreement, a number of conditions are laid down for both parties to apply for temporary work. However, we believe that this agreement can have a positive impact on the relationship between the two countries, both in terms of economic, cultural and educational terms, and in terms of tourism, and that it can clearly serve the development of relations in both human and youth areas. The MSZP will therefore support the adoption of this agreement and bill. Thank you very much. [[17 .30]]
u2016-10-10-230	Thank you very much, Congresswoman Márta Demeter. I'll see if anyone else wants to comment. [[No signal.]] I don't see any contact. Dear Parliament, The debate is closed and I am now giving the floor to Mr Károly Kontra, State Secretary, who wishes to respond to what has been said.
u2016-10-10-231	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, I have easy things to do, because there have been supporting contributions both in the general debate and now. I believe that this bill is in line with Hungary's national interests, and I therefore ask the Honourable Parliament to support the bill with their votes. Thank you for your kind attention.
u2016-10-10-232	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, The decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting. Dear Parliament, The Commission's reports on the adoption of the report on the activities of the Commissioner for Fundamental Rights and his alternates in 2015 will be discussed. H/10540 submitted by the Judicial Committee. The Commission's non-autonomous texts are available on the Parliament's IT network. I would like to inform you that the proposal is being discussed as a minority item by the Parliament. I will ask the author if he wishes to speak. President of the Commission, Mr Rubovszky, would you like to speak? [[For signal:]] It says no. Dear Parliament, I'll ask if anyone on the government's side wants to comment. [[No signal.]] I don't see any contact. I give the floor to Ms Giricz Vera, rapporteur for the Committee on Nationalities in Hungary. You have the floor, ma'am.
u2016-10-10-233	Честованый пан предс Tel: + 32- (0) 2 544 21 00 Дякувуза можность выступити. Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, The Committee of Nationalities of Hungary discussed the activities of the Commissioner for Fundamental Rights and his alternates as a related committee 2015 B/9278. and the 2012 XXXVI. on the National Assembly. Law 22. According to paragraph 2 of Section 2 of the Act, it has drawn up a resolution on which it has also taken into account the views of national national minority self-governments. The law on the Commissioner for Fundamental Rights narrowly settles the division of tasks. The Rules of Procedure are set out in Article 12. The presentation of the exercise of the delegated powers set out in Section 2 of this Article determined the structure of the accounts. It was a priority task to monitor, evaluate and control the enforcement of legislation ensuring the enforcement of the rights of nationalities, which was carried out with the assistance of the members of the secretariat. The Deputy Ombudsman held regular contacts with the representatives of the communities, attended professional forums and events. Progress is also being made on the publicity of the Ombudsman's work and on public information. The activity was supported by domestic and international media presence. The report addresses the monitoring of the implementation of the Roma objectives of the government's strategy for social inclusion. Several effective studies have been carried out on Roma catch-up. The Deputy Commissioner observed the work of the EMMI and was present as an observer at the meetings of the Anti-Segregation Round Table and the Roma Coordination Council. It is reassuring that there was no need to initiate formal action with the Commissioner on maladministration in relation to the protection of national minority rights, and this was resolved through professional cooperation. It is a step forward that, as from 1 January 2015, according to the new division of labour, the Deputy Commissioner for Nationality was able to work more autonomously in the area of nationality law. All cases of nationality are governed by the technical guidelines of the Deputy Commissioner. Progress has also been made in the opinion of legislation and government proposals. In nearly 20 cases, the Deputy Commissioner contributed to the opinion of draft legislation on nationality rights. With regard to the motion for a Constitutional Court, the motion for a revision of the municipal decree and the legal opinion, the Commissioner did not hand over the right to publish to the Deputy Commissioner for Nationality, but it indicates good cooperation and professional foundation that the publication in the area of nationality is carried out together, which is supported by the second part of the report. The international activity of the Deputy Ombudsman, which facilitated the presentation of the values of the domestic institutional system, deserves recognition. The professional work is facilitated by having employer's rights over the nationality secretariat and by giving an opinion on the relationship of members of the nationality legal department. We continue to support the use of professionals from ethnic communities. In the reporting period, nearly 200 cases were of a nationality legal nature. The report shows that local authorities still do not consider ethnic authorities to be equal partners. We are calling for more effective measures in this area. We face the problems of national minority programmes in the public media service every day, and we look forward to the results of the investigation in order to establish their solution. We share the Deputy Ombudsman's findings on the examination of priority cases: there has been a clear breach of the co-decision powers of the national authorities; a more extensive form of cultural autonomy may be represented by the transformed minority self-government; the operation of the minority kindergartens should be given priority support; separate education on a nationality basis does not constitute segregation, we support integrated education; the implementation of settlement programmes shows serious problems and problems, it has not produced the expected results; the actions of the municipality of Miskolc County City are contrary to the principle of the rule of law, they are not dignified. To sum up, the Commissioner's report embraced the areas of responsibility set out in the Fundamental Law. During the work of the Deputy Commissioner for Nationality, he established a partnership with the Committee of Nationalities in Hungary, which we propose to extend to national minority self-governments and their associations. On the basis of the above, the Committee of Nationalities of Hungary entitled B/9278 on the activities of the Commissioner for Fundamental Rights and his alternates. It supports the proposal for a parliamentary decision on the report submitted. Thank you for your attention. Дякуву за призур!
u2016-10-10-234	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr János Bencsik, rapporteur for the Committee on Sustainable Development for the debate.
u2016-10-10-235	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, At its meeting on 19 September, the Committee on Sustainable Development discussed the report and proposed its adoption by Parliament. The Committee recommends to the attention of Parliament and the Government, as recorded in the Commissioner's report on civil rights, that in the field of administrative and pedagogical training, environmental, natural and sustainability aspects should be given a greater role in training curricula. The committee agrees and supports the national tree planting programme for future generations, initiated by the Deputy Commissioner for the Protection of the Interests of Future Generations, which is based on planting a tree for every Hungarian child born in that year. We also consider it appropriate to provide the necessary budgetary financial support for the implementation of the programme, adapted to the government's demographic agenda. The Committee also considers it important to draw the Parliament's attention to the Office's resolutions on transatlantic free trade agreements and the non-genetically modified Hungary. Finally, the Committee agrees with the advocate's view that protecting and preserving natural resources requires a new approach to waste management, in particular in the process of switching to circular farming and industrial ecology. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] [[17.40]]
u2016-10-10-236	Thank you, Congressman Benchik. Dear Parliament, It is now up to Members to take part in the time-frame on which they are to be put on the agenda. There is no possibility of a two-minute comment during the debate. First, I give the floor to MEP László Teleki, Hungarian Socialist Party.
u2016-10-10-237	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear Parliament, I think it is very important that this agenda is again before Parliament, also because, as often as we talk about it, the government does not take this issue seriously, because the recommendations made by the Ombudsman in its 2015 report and in the years before it raises a serious problem that the recommendations are in place, but there is no coherence in the implementation, there is nothing in the funding budget that can address the problems that the Ombudsman represents, his signal or his colleagues have. I think it is important to highlight this because the spokeswoman has indicated what a major problem colony programmes are. I would also like to draw the attention of the pro-government representatives and the government that there are more than 650 Gypsy colonies still in Hungary, and there are nearly 100 to 110 thousand people living in unworthy conditions. This means that the government should pay attention not only because it strengthens the circle of permanent aid workers in this situation, but also because, whether in education, employment or health care, people who are in such circumstances cannot move forward, and even though the Ombudsman's report is submitted year after year and showing how good it would be to move forward on this issue, nothing is happening. Therefore, I would like to send a message here that the government should consider whether it will continue to maintain the situation that we can see on the Roma settlements, or if it wishes to do something about it. In the last four years, we have not seen in the budget the lines where it would appear, in a separate line, that Roma settlements would have some kind of funding or that they would like to spend on it; therefore, I think that we should not only think about European resources, but also use domestic resources to make a change. The other very important issue is that employment is also discussed in the report, and it can be seen there that in one thing they are trying to cover up the government's side of the problem, and that is the administrative upsurge of public workers. So the figures are cruelly good everywhere, because the number of public workers is indeed high, but these people cannot be seen in long-term employment, and this is also mentioned in the report that long-term employment should be managed at some level. Of course, in order to be able to employ these people permanently, it would be important, say, to start something in education that does not exclude the Roma from the educational situation but tries to integrate it. The reason I'm saying this is to rule it out, because think about it, you can see statistics now, that since 18 years to 16 years of school commitment, how many people came out into the world at 16 years of age, and all preparation, without education, without knowledge. It can be seen encoded and uncoded that these young people will be doomed to aid. I therefore think that there should be a first approach to education issues in education, whether they want to do something with this question, because if they can handle this issue properly, then I think there will be a lot less people who will need aid. Another part of education: it is very often visible and does not belong to the 2015 report, but in 16 we saw the report of a Committee of the Council of Europe, where it has been described in recent weeks that discrimination in Hungary has become systematic in relation to Roma. From now on, if a commission of the Council of Europe describes this, I think that we already had this systematic discrimination in 2015 or even before. The question is whether education, which, by the way, is highlighted by the ombudsman's report or by this particular Council of Europe report, is what they want to do with the situation where education segregation is directly or indirectly created; whether they want to do something with it, or whether they want to leave it there for the thirtieth time, and then life will decide what will happen to those children. I am telling you now that if those children continue to be left there, a large part of the Roma community can also become an uneducated group of people and become aided. Therefore, I think it is essential to do something on this issue, and the recommendation also shows its own problems, and the Ombudsman fully highlights it, as well as the international organisation mentioned. My last point concerns the Roma Coordination Council, which has been discussed here: I would like to point out that it is not an independent coordination council, which is working, because there are absolutely selected civil society organisations that can be connected to Fidesz, and from now on they cannot ask such truly constructive and well-defined questions, because the government tells them what to say. Therefore, social control and the role of civil control are greatly lacking in the various programmes, so I would also consider it very important to try to strengthen the role of civil control in addition to the ombudsman's report, because the support of civilians is also getting worse and more chaotic, so it is also a matter for the government to do something about it, because if it does not, then the reports have been written in vain, and even though there is an ombudsman's briefing, we will never really be able to deal with these problems. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2016-10-10-238	Thank you, Congressman Teleki. I give the floor to Congressman Sallai, LMP.
u2016-10-10-239	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. First of all, I would like to thank the Office and its staff of the Commissioner for Civil Liberties for their work, and I think that this work is perhaps one of the proofs that democracy can still be protected at a level that is a safeguard for the everyday functioning of Hungary's society. The problem can only be seen by the fact that the attention of the Government and my fellow members of the Government should first be focused on the fact that, despite the fact that all of us - party and opposition - are broadly in line with the functioning of the Office, the conditions necessary to carry out the work of the Office are not entirely sufficient. As we have seen in the majority opinion delivered by János Bencsik, the Committee on Sustainable Development has also taken the view that we should thank and accept the report, but, at the same time, having accepted this report myself, it was not possible for me to express the criticism of the minority opinion that much more people were needed. Basically, the number of cases that go to such a civil rights organisation always characterizes the functioning of society and democracy. The more challenges, the more cases, the worse the government works. At the moment, unfortunately, a multitude of cases make it difficult to work, and a multitude of everyday tasks characterize the duties of the office. And for my part, I have had the opportunity to look at Dr Marcel Szabó's report in detail and to find that many cases that should have been dealt with at government level have been transferred to the Ombudsman's office. This is also the failure of the institutional system, when the advocate is doing his job well, because he has to investigate all the cases which, overall, did not stop at the administrative level at government level. Accordingly, we need to focus on two things. One is whether it is necessary to create additional opportunities for the Office by increasing resources, and whether additional budgetary resources should be provided to enable it to fulfil this task even more, and the other is whether the powers that advocates have at the moment are sufficient. It is necessary to see that, in most cases, the report ends with the adoption of the form of the report here, but there is no real possibility for the advocates to act. Their real potential for action is very, very limited. For my part, I am pleased to see that in the Constitutional Court phase, in some cases the advocates form their opinions, but at the same time I would be happy if the advocates had real intervention if they could veto on real civil rights. [[17.50]] At the moment, in my view, the conditions for ensuring a fundamental right to a healthy environment in Hungary are not guaranteed, and one of the indicators of this is how many such cases are landed in the Ombudsman's office and how much they need to be dealt with. As it is clear from the report that work is ongoing, a large number of cases are coming in, so the lack of capacity appears, although it would be good to have very, very few submissions of this kind in a well-functioning administrative system. It would be nice to discuss only one extreme case and the report is about such extreme cases. Unfortunately, however, as the report shows, we are seeing a number of typical cases that are characteristic of the entire Hungarian administration at the moment. The reduction of the environmental and nature conservation institutions and the level of authority and the destruction carried out in this respect have resulted in difficulties in representing future generations, specifically binding the hands of the spokesperson responsible for these tasks, and its possibilities are not sufficient to do anything for these citizens' rights. With the adoption of this report, I would ask my fellow Members to look at the possibility of transferring resources to the office, of giving them extra capacity to carry out the multiplicity of tasks, and, on the other hand, to see whether it is possible to remedy the mistakes of our administrative system in such a way that the Hungarian government agency system, in which we are slowly integrating everything, is working, so as to give rise to as little civil complaint as possible. I apologise for the fact that I focused essentially on representing future generations in my speech. Obviously, many other issues concerning equal opportunities could have been brought up, but I wanted the Honourable Parliament to face what had been the result of the abolition of the environmental institutional system. By the way, the report will be accepted by our faction. Thank you for the floor, Mr President.
u2016-10-10-240	Thank you, Congressman Sallai. The next speaker is President of the Committee, György Rubovszky, the Christian Democratic People's Party.
u2016-10-10-241	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, I am very pleased that the general debate will be held a second time. Today's task is to hold a summary debate on the Commission's reports, but in the Commission's reports, there is not a word about what has been said here. I did not ask for the floor as rapporteur, because in our committee report, there is only so much that the parliamentary decision complies with the rules of the House of Parliament, which is why we propose that the House adopt it. This is the subject of today's debate, and it is not once again, in the presence or absence of the Ombudsman, to conduct the general debate that we have already had. Therefore, with all due respect, I would just like to say that the Justice Committee is 10540/2. He submitted his summary report and the debate was closed. I do not wish to continue the comment. What's said here is all repetition. Thank you very much.
u2016-10-10-242	Thank you very much, Mr President of the Commission. I give the floor to Congressman Csaba Gyure, Jobbik.
u2016-10-10-243	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, I would pick up where my fellow Members left off. It could indeed be a non-existent debate here, but legislation and house rules give us the opportunity to express our opinion in the nine minutes allowed by house rules in this case. And if there is a motion without debate, then I think that it can be discussed here. The opposition factions have all returned to what was said in the general debate, but the discussions in the general debate obviously have an impact on the committee meeting at some level, which accepts it, does not accept it, proposes and does not recommend it. I think that what is included in the Commission's report is certainly part of it, and this debate can indeed be addressed. With a few thoughts, I'd like to do the same. We have talked about many things, especially my fellow Member Teleki, about the issue of education, especially in terms of segregation or integration of education and the benefits of integrated education. We have already had a debate on this in the general debate. Obviously, education in Hungary cannot be expected and can not be done solely with segregation, because this obviously will not lead to good results, but we also said that integrated education alone is not sure that it is good either. I mentioned the example of this which occurred in Nyíregyháza, when the school that operated at the Gypsy colony - so to speak - in which the minority gypsy was exclusively involved was removed, and when it was removed, who was most outraged: it was the Roma who lived there, and they were the ones who started a series of demonstrations against the closure of the school, even though their children were carried into the best-spoken central schools in Nyíregyháza, so the children's right to education was theoretically not damaged, but rather their opportunities were better, but they were the ones who disagreed with it. The other question is, they didn't even ask the people whose kids were there to make sure it was okay. And here I mentioned the problem that if we say that everyone, every child, has the right to education in Hungary, and if the Ombudsman examines this, and it is true, and it must be true, and I also said here in the debate that basically it is also expected in Hungarian society that education can be of equal quality for all children, and that everyone can achieve a good level of professional education for them, but this should not mean that the rights of children who might want to learn should be violated. When they put such a school in the area, I talked to several teachers, and they told me that the problem was that the school that was terminated had a much lower standard of education, where the children were brought in, was of much higher quality, the children were unable to know the high standard at once, because how they would have known, and they obviously didn't understand what was going on in the class, then there were indiscipline problems, and they couldn't even learn from those who wanted to. Thus, it is not without reason, but after an appropriate examination, that it is necessary to decide why integrated education is good and must also have appropriate degrees. Jobbik has repeatedly said the kind of thought, and we have also formulated it here in Parliament, which is about those who have an antisocial attitude in schools, which makes it virtually impossible for them to learn with others, must be selected from school and put in a special school where they will be taught at their own level, using appropriate methods, and not using methods that they could not cope with at that level. But this is another issue: Integrated-Segregated education would lead very far away, which the Commissioner has also been examining. We've also raised the problem of textbook care, and we haven't had the right answer to that. We believe that the right to education also includes the right time for children to have access to the right textbooks. Experience is that textbooks are late in a series or they don't get a lot of books, so they can only learn from the Internet, photocopying, library, old books, and that is a problem. In our view, this should also have been investigated. Even Jobbik was dominant in health. I think that one of the most fundamental rights of citizens is the right to life, and one of the most important parts of the right to life is the right to health. And where can we exercise the right to health, where can we obtain it, where can we enforce these rights? Of course, in the doctor's office, in the hospitals. We learned from the ombudsman's report what the most important segments of health were. We heard about the needle exchange program, which we criticized because we think the needle exchange program is a very small segment. Obviously, the Ombudsman has a task of focusing on disadvantaged people in particular, but we believe that greater social problems should also be addressed. In this case, we have indicated a number of segments in the field of health that we believe the Ombudsman should have examined, and the Ombudsman's report should also include this. I mean, first of all, the question of waiting lists, which we did not see in the report, but in the right to health, we think it is extremely important that waiting lists be brief or not at all. In the event that they are placed on waiting lists of 300-500-600 days, unfortunately, it can also be said that time heals everything, but unfortunately, this is not always the case. [[18.00]] Unfortunately, it is also possible for the patient to die by then. Here his right to life, not only his right to health, but his right to life is also violated. As important is the question of the appointment lists in the context of outpatient care. After all, there are 60-80-90-100-day, half-year appointments, and there are similar problems in outpatient care. But we have raised the issue of on-call care here in Budapest, or we have raised another question, the problem of medical gratuity money, which would also have been good if it had been in this ombudsman's report. I would like to move on to the last thought that I wanted to discuss, and that is what my fellow Member, Mr Sallai R. Benedek, has said about what the Ombudsman's task is. Its task is to represent as broad a society as possible, even against the country, in order to enforce its civil rights. That's what we told you. We have repeatedly indicated to the Ombudsman or to the Office that, since there was a two-thirds majority here in the previous parliamentary term, the right of individual individuals or even certain Members of Parliament to ex post standard control has been removed, so that the Constitutional Court should be asked for ex post norm control, whether by any Member of Parliament or by any person, and since a serious number has been required, unfortunately, by a parliamentary group, to initiate such ex post norm control, we would have said that this role should have been taken over by the Ombudsman's office. This would guarantee the fundamental rights of citizens, and in this case it is only possible to appeal to the Constitutional Court if these rights are violated and, by the way, the legal norm is contrary to the law and the law that is born is contrary to the Fundamental Law. We believe that the Ombudsman should have exercised this right in many more cases. In this case, the Constitutional Court should have had to seek ex post control of standards a lot more often, and in this case it could really enforce it there, and it could effectively enforce it, because it makes recommendations otherwise, but with the help of the Constitutional Court it could provide effective assistance even in the event of negative regulation affecting a wider social layer. After all, the Constitutional Court has the right to repeal legislation so that it can exercise more rights. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2016-10-10-244	Thank you, Congressman Gyure. I give the floor to Congressman László Teleki.
u2016-10-10-245	Thank you very much. Mr President, I do not want to waste any more time, but I absolutely agree with President György Rubovszky because we have had this debate. I respect Mr President very much, so I wouldn't argue with him, but it is up to the opposition to tell us as many times as possible what problems it sees, because the narrow field that the opposition receives as an opportunity must always be used. That is what I have done now, and that is what I am doing in these two minutes, because I think that the problem is what is in Hungary, and the report also points out how much the number of people who have turned to the Ombudsman for various things has increased in recent years, which means that there is a big problem in the country. Therefore, it is only natural for me to speak up at a time like this. I am very sorry that Flórian Farkas is missing from the benches of Fidesz and Félix Farkas, the advocate, because I think that it would be very important for them to be here and represent the largest minority here today in Parliament, because that would be their job. But it's their soul to know why they're not here. I would just like to say one thing to my fellow Member Csaba Gyure. When it comes to Gandhi High School, we don't say there's segregation. Because both parents and children say that they are very happy to send their children there, and from now on, no one considers it to be a segregational form of education. However, in that case, not only in the Roma case, but the issue of poverty is raised, and one parent can take his child 20-30 km to a better educational institution, and the poorer, including the Roma, stay there, they grow into segregational education systems, whether they like it or not. There will be no education that will provide further opportunities for further education. As a result, that is what I meant when I spoke about an indirect and direct segregation of education. I believe that the government must in this way develop a concept that would reassure the institution of the ombudsman's office and reassure both the public and the public that it is not coded that anyone born poor will remain poor forever. Consequently, it is up to the government to try to solve this by raising education to a level that is accessible to all. For the poor, including the Roma. An integrated education should be provided by the government for everyone, because it is his job and it is his responsibility to establish such a system. I think that we will really be articulated in this country, the Roma minority, if it is able to raise the level of education as much as possible, not in segregation, but on the contrary, to strengthen integration. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2016-10-10-246	Thank you, Congressman Teleki. I'll ask if anyone else wants to speak in the remaining timeframes. [[There's no candidate.]] I don't see any contact. Dear Parliament, The debate is closed and I give the floor to President György Rubovszky.
u2016-10-10-247	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. I'll be very brief. With all due respect, I would like to ask, in particular, that no one has tabled an amendment to our proposal for a resolution, this House would be pleased to adopt the proposal for a decision tabled by the Judicial Committee. Thank you very much. [[It's a rare round of applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-10-10-248	Thank you very much, President Rubovszky. Dear Parliament, The decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting. Dear Parliament, The Commission's reports on the adoption of the report on the professional activities of the State Audit Office in 2015 and on the operation of the institution for the National Assembly will be discussed. H/10915 submitted by the Economic Committee The Commission's non-autonomous texts are available on the Parliament's IT network. I would like to inform you that the proposal is being discussed as a minority item by the Parliament. Dear Parliament, I will ask the rapporteur, Mr Sándor Czomba, if he wishes to speak now. [[For signal:]] It says yes. You have the floor, Congressman Czomba.
u2016-10-10-249	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, At its meeting on 31 May 2016, the Economic Committee of Parliament discussed the report on the activities of the State Audit Office in 2015 and supported its adoption without voting against on the basis of the related proposal for a decision. According to the Economic Committee's position, the SAO's report shows that Hungary has a very active Court of Auditors. In particular, the SAO's preventive approach and supportive approach should be highlighted. The SAO's effective activity also confirms the need to increase the protection of public funds to a constitutional level and to renew the Court of Auditors' law in 2011. Speaking of the proposal for a decision tabled by the Economic Committee without voting against, I would also like to draw attention to the fact that the SAO considered it its task, in the context of its role in the development of financial culture, to map initiatives for the development of domestic financial culture, to measure its effectiveness and effectiveness, which it published. The SAO has carried out an assessment of the organisations involved in the development of financial culture and the programmes they run. The results of the research have shown that the development of financial awareness for the whole Hungarian society is justified for balanced economic development and for reducing the risks of the financial system. The State Court of Auditors should continue to act as an active initiator in the process of developing financial awareness, using its audit experience, with its strong professional and scientific background, to act as a catalyst and a supportive function. This can be achieved primarily by participating in the preparation of the national strategy, by cooperating with certain actors in the state and by performing the tasks resulting from the existing cooperation, which I propose this time again that the Parliament authorise. All in all, the SAO continues to keep an eye on public funds, the Hungarian people's tax forints, and increasingly supports the operation of a well-managed state. On the basis of the report before us and in the light of the arguments listed above, I would like to ask you to support the proposal for a resolution, thereby strengthening the parliamentary confidence in the SAO. Thank you for your attention. [[It's a rare round of applause in the pro-government benches.]] [[18.10]]
u2016-10-10-250	Thank you very much, Congressman Czomba. I would like to point out that at the end of the debate, you have 7 minutes and 30 seconds left to say the closing word. Dear Parliament, I'll ask if anyone on the government's side wants to speak. [[No signal.]] No. I give the floor to Mr Imre Ritter, rapporteur of the committee on nationalities related to the debate, on a six-minute time frame.
u2016-10-10-251	Sehr geehrter Vorsitzender! Sehr geehrtes Parliament! Mr President, Dear House, Dear Vice President Tihamér Warvasovszky, As a minority spokesperson invited by the Committee on Nationalities in Hungary, I would like to inform you that at its meeting on 20 September 2016 the Committee on Nationalities in Hungary discussed the professional activities of the State Audit Office in 2015 B/10303. Report No 1. The Committee on Nationalities in Hungary agrees with the H/10915 presented by the Economic Committee as a designated committee. and proposed to the Parliament for adoption. In addition to this, let me make some comments from our committee on the professional activities of the State Audit Office in 2015, including, in particular, the five-year comprehensive audits carried out by national national authorities. I would like to point out, first of all, that we agree with the overwhelming majority of the findings of the Court of Auditors in the detailed report on the control of the 13 national minority self-governments, which have not been contested either by the national minority authorities or by our committee. At the same time, we do not fully understand and agree with the summary materials prepared for the press, because we believe that these summary materials reflect negatively the regularity of the management of national minority self-governments compared to the detailed report. This is essentially due to two factors: on the one hand, the Court of Auditors did not make a distinction in its essential and irrelevant question, and on the other hand, in some cases, it was in part compatible with the classification of the standard, with almost insignificant matters, such as a curtain-carnis registered at zero forints and a few beer-tables for the preservation of property. And our other more important point, which is very important for the future, is that the State Audit Office has not defined in many cases the reasons for the formation of the facts set out in the detailed findings and the tasks necessary to prevent it in the future, which has also affected and could affect national minority self-governments in the future. What exactly is this about? The State Audit Office has clearly stated in its audit programme that, based on the experience of the audit, we are helping good governance by identifying legislative contradictions and proposing to eliminate them. On the other hand, the State Audit Office revealed and saw these regulatory problems during the investigations and in the detailed report, but did not comment or propose to resolve them. Let me just give you one specific example. The law on the rights of nationalities provides for different trusting obligations for national national authorities, but the law on the management of state assets did not include national minority self-governments, i.e. in any such case they could not comply with one of the laws. So these types of findings were, if you will, unlawful facts arising from the fact that in many cases there were legal contradictions and inefficiencies in the legislation on the functioning of national minority self-governments. For the future, I would like to ask the State Audit Office of Hungary, the Vice-President, with respect to the fact that until the next comprehensive audit of national minority self-governments - there will be plenty of time to do so, some three to four years - to examine whether the summary materials prepared for the press are a true reflection of the fact that, in many cases, very good and positive detailed reports, as well as the substantial and irrelevant distinction, the provision of proportionality, the legislative contradictions and the proposals to correct shortcomings in the inspection programme, are factors that have a significant impact on the lives of nationalities in Hungary. With respect, Mr Vice-President, I would like to ask you to take these professional comments as constructive criticism, all the more so, because we continue to consider the investigations and reports of the State Court of Auditors as a priority on the part of nationalities in Hungary. I thank you in advance for your helpful cooperation. In addition to all these comments, the Committee of Nationalities of Hungary proposes to the Parliament its 2015 accounts for adoption, in accordance with the proposal of the Economic Committee's decision. Thank you for listening. Danke für Ihre Aufmerksamkeit!
u2016-10-10-252	Thank you very much, Mr Imre Ritter. I myself welcome the Vice-President of the State Audit Office, Vice-President Warvasovszky. We now have the Members' speeches in the time-frame on the agenda. There is no possibility of a two-minute comment during the debate. First, I give the floor to Vice-President János Latorcai, the Christian Democratic People's Party.
u2016-10-10-253	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Vice President, Ladies and gentlemen, As included in the proposal for a decision, the State Audit Office is the main financial and economic audit body of the National Assembly, but, in addition to its audit tasks, the primary task of the State Audit Office is to support the legislative work of the National Assembly with its experience and legal advisory activities. After discussing the 2015 accounts of the State Audit Office, it was clear that the SAO fully complied with its legal obligation last year. This is confirmed by the 221 reports published in 2015 and 26 analyses, as well as by the proposal for nearly 2000 actions to be taken in 350 cases in order to correct irregularities, deficiencies and reduce identified risks. The SAO also carried out audits in 2015 in areas of high social importance and uncontrolled, as well as in organisations carrying out supervisory official controls, and placed great emphasis on the control of economic organisations providing public services to Hungarian people. The SAO also controlled dozens of municipal and state-owned or majority state-owned companies and continued to monitor municipal district heating and waste management companies involved in the reduction of the costs, of which 35 were district heating operators and 9 were controlled by waste management companies. The audit of the SAO in this area is of particular importance because it is important for everyone to keep these entities accountable and have a sound pricing. As a typical problem, the SAO notes that the cost calculation related to public tasks did not always meet the legal requirements of companies. This is a particularly sensitive area, my fellow Members, because the cost calculation should be the basis for pricing, i.e. it depends on people paying for a public service as much as it really is worth. [[18.20]] This is precisely why the State must undertake tasks to protect citizens, taking an active role in several market segments. After all, it is very important that changes in the lives of public and municipal companies can take place in the interests of society. I have already mentioned that the State Audit Office has also taken an advisory role and has an obligation to play an advisory role. In the course of the 2015 review, we can also acknowledge the work done in this field, as they have been able to make progress in both the renewal of state management and the development of Hungarian financial awareness. For years, the Court has been committed to supporting interinstitutional cooperation and financial culture research in the field of financial awareness development. This increased responsibility has also been confirmed by the National Assembly by the fact that Article 41/2014. It recognised and supported the institution's social involvement in the development of financial culture. The SAO study, mentioned in the report, which examined the organisations involved in the development of financial culture and the programmes they conducted and managed, is noteworthy. The aim of the study was to finally develop a detailed mapping and evaluation of the Hungarian financial culture and financial awareness development initiatives and to carry out a realistic assessment of the characteristics and shortcomings of the Hungarian training systems and programmes. We can say that the development of the financial awareness of Hungarian families is a public matter. The financial vulnerability of families in times of crisis needs to be eliminated and future reforms and education strategies for financial culture should be prevented. The SAO study published in connection with the development of the financial awareness of the Hungarian population is of great help to this, and I hope that my fellow Members like to shoot this, because it concerns areas of priority for the future. It notes that programmes and training for the development of financial culture are low, despite the fact that significant public funds are being used for training. In addition, it is a problem that most of the courses are for high school students and are only one or two hours long. Taking into account the findings of the study, it is also essential to increase the financial knowledge and financial awareness of the needy adult groups as well as students. In parallel with the development of the financial culture of individuals, it is also necessary to rethink the regulation on market participants, which concerns all of us, in order to ensure that the risk taken by using financial products and services is transparent and easy to understand. Ladies and gentlemen, The SAO fulfilled its statutory tasks both in the field of audits and in the context of its increasingly widespread advisory role in 2015, which is clarified in the proposal for a decision, and the KDNP faction therefore proposes that all support the proposed decision. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2016-10-10-254	Thank you very much, Vice President Latorcai. I give the floor to Congresswoman Erzsébet Schmuck, LMP.
u2016-10-10-255	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, The LMP does not see the SAO's activities in the same way as Mr Sándor Czomba summarized. The State Audit Office is the main financial and economic audit body of public bodies and municipalities using or managing public funds. As such, it should operate in accordance with the laws applicable to it and without any external influence. However, this independence at the State Audit Office seems to be lacking. In 2015 the SAO carried out mainly political orders during its public scrutiny; I could mention: NAV, forestry, universities, hospitals. In such cases, the SAO's interest is always focused on organisations with which the government has some short-term political goals. These are typically the preparation of personal decisions, the removal of high-level managers, and I can also mention NAV, forestry or universities, or the support of the need for organisational changes, or the conduct of alibi checks on scandals and abuses involving the operation of certain public bodies. In particular, it is worth highlighting the recent SAO proposal to raise the wage ceiling for state leaders. It is quite obvious that this was requested from the State Court of Auditors at a higher political level, because it would have been difficult to explain in itself why they should now suddenly be radically opposed to their previous position, when they criticized the urisation and high public salaries of the last 8 years. However, the SAO's purely independent professional proposals established the measure. This is a very good example of the current role of SAO. In any case, it is typical that non-comprehensive financial and economic controls often limit the areas that the SAO intends to examine. They rarely leave out areas where embarrassing results can be obtained, and there are frequent simple compliance checks among them. Within the framework of the latter, the deadlines for the adoption of internal rules, the updating of regulations, the proper keeping of records, the accounting shortcomings and the recent findings of internal control and minor deficiencies in the internal control system have been identified. It's good for government clients because it's a way to bring up organizations. Any subsequent measure may be supported by a magnification of non-significant malfunctions as appropriate, but it may be maintained that the maintenance or supervisory bodies of the organisations concerned are also liable to be faulty. In such cases, the SAO's proposals are mainly aimed at establishing labour law liability, which is either taken into account by the audited organisation or not. In recent years, it is also possible to note that the SAO has been examining any type of public body, and the findings are increasingly being made on the same level as the SAO, which we believe may indicate a decrease in its professional standards and an increase in political influence. Otherwise, an increase in political influence necessarily entails the professional breakdown of the internal organisation system. By conducting a comparative analysis of the 2009 and 2015 SAO reports on the NAV, for example, it is also apparent that while in the former case the SAO clearly pointed out systemic problems in the operation, it is only very vague to discover in the last report. And the reason for that is not that the NAV suddenly became an organization without any problems. What is important is that alongside Péter Polt, László Domokos is the one who is most responsible for creating a false and false picture of the fight against corruption in Hungary. At home and abroad there are misleading settings about the excellent resistance of the Hungarian government administration system to corruption. Unfortunately, we can experience the opposite. Thank you for your attention.
u2016-10-10-256	Thank you very much, Congresswoman Erzsébet Schmuck. I give the floor to Congressman Dániel Z. Carpathian, Jobbik.
u2016-10-10-257	Mr President, Dear House, Weird déjà vu takes over a person who listens to a debate about another SAO report, or even discusses the ideas that arise, since we have had the same debates at a given time, and it is obvious that the governing parties, since they have been in power, have generally tried to encourage Members to support them, and we oppositionists will see things that cannot be seen. Indeed, it is amazing that the Court of Auditors may at all have an attempt to push the pay ceiling of different salaries where appropriate. There is no normal professional justification for this; there are no market needs to support such a recommendation in the current national economy. [[18.30]] There must be an awkward wink between the government and a professional organization. But I am much more disturbed by the debate between us that has been returning for years, according to which the better representative, László Nyikos earlier, is now telling us that the public finances of hundreds of municipalities are uncontrolled in Hungary, or are very little controlled, and the conclusion is that the system is being refined, of course, but we cannot expect a hundred percent in this respect. However, we still see that they have not been able to make progress on public finance control at systemic level in recent years, even according to needs. What, on the other hand, is a little blurring out the security, is a mass of efforts to deepen the financial culture. It would be possible to hold debates on whose task this would be, and I state that it is not necessarily the Court of Auditors' basic task. Mr. Matolcsy also tried to include a similar additional activity in their core activity, with little success; they were as lame as their various investments, the expansion of the real estate portfolio. What, though, is the most difficult forint in times of crisis? Exactly the property stock. It can be seen that education of basic financial knowledge is currently a joke within the education system, and it is not up to the instructors, and it is not up to them to put themselves in this area, but to keep the Hungarian population stunned in terms of basic financial knowledge due to the lack of development of the system. The real joke for me is that, in six years, the government, the professional organisations together, could not put a recommendation on the table that would have produced meaningful results in the field, and it was not possible to achieve that it would be easier to protect itself from foreign investors or even government political business players who, by means of unhealthy collusions, were organized to rob the Hungarian population because of the self-preparedness of the next series of foreign currency loans or Quaestor scandals. For the sake of the minutes, let us say once again that the Fidesz-KDNP government contributed to the organised looting of the Hungarian population, and, unfortunately, those professional organisations were not at the top of the situation when they let a settlement not take place at the rate of admission, but indeed almost HUF these so-called loans at the market rate, causing hundreds of billions of dollars of damage to Hungarian residents, and providing a very good service to friendly banks that turned out to be a little closer to friendship between the MNB President and the former functionary of the Banking Association. Therefore, we do not like similar close friendships, mergers, winks, fair SAO recommendations, but we do not want to see them pushing the pay ceiling, but rather, in terms of public finances, let us say, all Hungarian local authorities are controlled in their depth, so that in Hungary the fate of a single forint is not left in the dark. Thank you for your attention. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2016-10-10-258	Thank you very much, Mr Dániel Z. Carpathian. I will ask if anyone else wishes to make use of the opportunity to speak in the remaining timeframes. [[No one's reporting.]] I don't see any contact. Dear Parliament, The debate is closed, and since the rapporteur, Sándor Czomba, does not want to take advantage of it, I declare that the decisions will take place on tomorrow's sitting. Dear Parliament, The debate between the European Union and its Member States, of the one part, and Canada, of the other part, on the Comprehensive Economic and Trade Agreement, the Commission's reports on the position on the signature of CETA and the summary amendment proposal follows. The government referral is H/12180. The Commission's non-autonomous texts are available on the Parliament's IT network. I declare that the presentation will be discussed as an EU item on the agenda by the Parliament. Dear Parliament, First, the position of the legislative committee and the formulated minority opinion will be presented in a 15-minute time frame. Of this, Róbert Répássy, the rapporteur of the committee, has an eight-minute time frame, to whom I give the floor.
u2016-10-10-259	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, The Legislative Committee discussed H/12180 on 6 October. Parliamentary motion No. 1. During the Commission's debate, the Committee discussed in detail the amendment of the Committee on Sustainable Development and its content and discussed the amendment of the Committee's party members. As regards the amendments, the pro-government amendment clarified, on the one hand, the leading part of the Parliamentary resolution proposal by making it clear that the Parliament should adopt a firm position on the matter. On the other hand, the majority position was that the Parliament had to make a substantive decision during the ratification of the agreement, so it had to make a substantive decision on the agreement when the full text of the agreement, its full content, was known and it was also known under what conditions the European Union had adopted and the conditions under which the members of the Council of the European Union, the Council of the Union, had accepted the agreement, the conditions under which they had accepted this agreement. It is therefore very important on this issue that ratification will be a substantive decision, I can say that it is not an automatic, usual debate. In addition, the Committee's majority position was that it was also necessary to provide for the issue of provisional application in the parliamentary decision, because the agreement was planned to be applied provisionally before ratification, subject to certain conditions and certain restrictions. Therefore, the pro-government majority of the committee proposed that the provisional application should not be approved by the Parliament with regard to the provisions laid down in the competence of the Member States, since this would weaken the decision on the substantive consideration of ratification. In summary, the debate was primarily about how the Parliament should decide on the agreement at all, when to decide on the agreement, and what the circumstances and conditions of provisional application should be. As I said, there was a majority position here, and the Legislative Committee adopted its amendment in favour of 24 yes, 7 abstentions and 1 gender. From this it was possible to anticipate that the summation amendment would also be made by majority, but I would like to report to the Parliament that the Committee adopted the summary amendment with one vote against, nine abstentions and 22 votes in favour. This leads to the conclusion that, by the way, Gábor Fodor, who expressed his liberal position, was the only member of the committee who took the view that the amended proposal for a decision had to be rejected, and that the majority of the committee supported this summarised amendment, while nine abstained, i.e. did not vote against it. Dear House, I do not want to put the debate on long, and I think the parties will now repeat their position here. What I can say, however, was that there was a strong need for the Members in the majority position to make certain ratifications a substantive decision, not a mere automaticism, a mere formality. In this spirit, we propose to the Parliament the adoption of the resolution. Thank you for the floor, Mr President. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] [[18.40]]
u2016-10-10-260	Thank you very much, Congressman Répássy Róbert. I now give the floor to Congressman Gábor Staudt, Jobbik, who presents the minority opinion formulated in the committee.
u2016-10-10-261	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, Indeed, there has been a heated debate about the proposal, and although the words of Répássy Róbert would suggest that it is quite clear, acceptable to everyone, and it can be seen what will happen after this is brought into Parliament, well, that is not exactly the case, because on the one hand, a proposal has been submitted to the Legislative Committee that will push the real decision. The Parliament will not decide what its position on this agreement is. The initial open-ended, supported, not supported, compared to the proposal, will be seen by one, and when it comes back to the confirmation, we will see that it is supported or not placed for discussion. We supported this amendment because it is obviously better than the Parliament's support, or it is an important point to prohibit recognition of provisional effect, so that it does not enter into force until then. This is all right, but when we had to vote on the summary, we abstained, because we already believe that we should have voted no, in the committee and in the Parliament, the majority should have said no to this agreement. This is all the more true because we see it, and this has been said in the committee that there is a delay. If the news can be believed, in spite of the position of the majority of the Fidesz fraction, Viktor Orbán seems to be pushing this issue through, Viktor Orbán and some of his fellow Members who ignore the fact that this allows the introduction of GMO products or GMO products, the TTIP front door of the whole convention or the dispute settlement mechanism of the state and of businesses and multi-company companies may even raise EU legal issues, even if the breach or insufficient consistency of the basic contracts may arise. But it seems that you are waiting for or anesthetizing your own faction, or that some kind of power battles are happening in the background, but with reference to the fact that this text may change, you do not wish to make a decision about it now. I asked the committee what could change, what they expected. Some kind of additional protocol, or reservation, or whatever it is that has not come to the fore in five years, has not been brought up by the Hungarian party or other parties in the course of a five-year trial, and now they will think that this will bring about what, Hungarians or the Hungarian government or governments of other countries, governments of EU countries, and thus the text can change? We didn't get an answer to that, although, frankly, I don't think there's any change in the text here, not in too much and not in Cardinal matters. What we do know, however, I have to say that it is not too persuasive, inconclusive, and that is what it is projected to be, and it has been said naturally in committee as a minority opinion, because I have to convey to you that this is already the vision of TTIP, the trade agreement with America, the US, in so far as it is likely that this will also be played there, on the one hand, there is a government levitation of the decision, on the other hand, and on the other hand, there are tough statements about what has to be in it, and on the other hand, if it is not, we will end up meeting with the argument system which, even now, if it has not come up for five years, and how the Hungarian Government and the Hungarian National Assembly can do not accept it in the Union, let us say, as the only country - although it would be good if we were not alone - throw this in the trash bin, and after five years, it says that it is not harmful to Hungary. Now, at TTIP, you always say that we don't see the final version yet, that the final version will develop, and then in the light of the final version, you can decide whether you support it. But when we get the final version, they're gonna say, let's say we can't throw ten years of negotiation out the window, so let's support this draft. So that's our concern. To put it this way, let us say the rusty prick, that the majority of the Fidesz-KDNPs will end up with this proposal, if there is no supplement, if there is no better text, if it is worse, but they will accept it, and according to the news, they will accept it at the pressure of Viktor Orbán. The press news is also about not only press news, but also statements that we can actually talk about a low GDP growth of less than a tenth of a percent, which is virtually not within the percentage of error, but can also go into hard negative; there is no statement that has shown Hungary the huge benefits that it could have as a disadvantage in the other pan of the balance sheet. I must also say that one thing is certain: agriculture and Hungarian agriculture will be the loser of this. That the Hungarian industry, or, let's say, the German multi-companies working in Hungary, or, let's say, how much of these car companies can profit, because they may profit from it, but how much of this remains in Hungary, and how much of it will become a profit for German owners, we can imagine this from the experience of recent years. So we would like the Parliament to say no to this initiative now, and the government would put its position clearly and openly on the table and not float it. Name the person who would like to support this. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2016-10-10-262	Thank you very much, Congressman Gábor Staudt. I'll ask the author if he wants to speak now. [[For signal:]] Yes, I'll give the floor to the Secretary of State of Magyar Levente.
u2016-10-10-263	Mr. President. With respect, I would like to respond at the end of the debate.
u2016-10-10-264	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, The designated Committee on Foreign Affairs did not draft a rapporteur. I now give the floor to Mr János Bencsik, rapporteur of the Committee on Sustainable Development for the debate, within a six-minute time frame.
u2016-10-10-265	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, At its meeting on 3 October, the Committee on Sustainable Development discussed the Government's proposal for a free trade agreement between Canada and the European Union, as well as the Treaty annexed to it, and, as a majority opinion, concluded that the biggest problem with this draft contract is that it puts private interests before the public interest, the mere capital interests before the common good. Its clear aim is to remove barriers to trade, thus removing regulatory barriers, since trade relations between the European Union and Canada have been able to operate freely so far; as far as the tariff is concerned, this 3-percent tariff has not affected the volume of trade. At the same time, the different regulatory environment between the two cultures has made it difficult for companies from overseas, Canada and Canada to enter the European market, as European economic and social culture based on the precautionary principle is constrained with a risk-based approach to Anglo-Saxon, American social and economic culture. It should also be seen, and this was also established as a majority opinion at the committee meeting, that the scope of the agreement would cover companies with Canadian premises. [[18.50]] It also has more than 400 Canadian establishments of companies established in the United States, i.e. these companies will be subject to the legal scope of the Agreement and will be granted access to the European Union market on favourable terms. The Committee also concluded that the term "pre-emptive' was not included in the 1600-page contract text. There is a metaphorical reference to the practical application of the precautionary principle. The Treaty itself states that the parties will clarify their dispute with regard to the WTO SPS regulatory system, taking into account this agreement. This is the veterinary and phytosanitary agreement adopted within the World Economic Council, which, in turn, refers to the practical applicability of the precautionary measure so that it can only be introduced temporarily by the Parties. Therefore, if a national legislation makes a restrictive decision based on the precautionary principle of consumer protection and health protection, it can only do so temporarily. The next problem we have found is that several times the text of the contract refers to the fact that it is a living, so it is a continuously evolving and developing treaty. Once again, the Parties shall finalise disputes or issues which have not yet been sufficiently developed, in agreement with each other, through dialogue. Again, this involves questioning the precautionary principle. The question of investment and investment protection arises in the contract as another issue of dispute. This is also related to what I said earlier. In fact, the treaty raises investors above national state jurisdictions and European law, and thus the interests of investors are placed above the common good. In the event that an investor takes out the contract and initiates proceedings on the basis of it, and the arbitration court also draws up the contract and says that there is a reference to the WTO SPS system, in which the precautionary principle can only be applied temporarily, the court may say that, ladies and gentlemen, this transitional period is over, and accordingly, the national legislature should be obliged to lay down these restrictive elements and kindly pay the compensation established in the applicant's register. As a result, national jurisdictions, Parliaments and parliaments may take steps backwards in terms of public health and labour law. For this reason, the Committee decided to submit an amendment by which it initiated the rejection of the entire Convention by 5 votes in favour, against 3 abstentions. However, it was sad to note that the Legislative Committee did not support this amendment tabled by the Committee on Sustainable Development. Thank you for your attention.
u2016-10-10-266	Thank you very much, Congressman Benchik. It is now up to the Members to take part in their speeches within the time-frame on which they are to be put on the agenda. There is no possibility of a two-minute comment during the debate. First, I give the floor to Congressman Richard Hörcsik, Fidesz.
u2016-10-10-267	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Several of my fellow Members in this debate this evening have already participated in the general debate, where it has become clear that Parliament has reached an exceptional opportunity by examining an international treaty before signing. I believe that the government acted correctly in the spirit of the parliamentary decision of 11/2016 already mentioned, when it brought this question to Parliament. I believe, fellow Members, that we can have a instructive and exciting debate behind us, and although there may still be an open question, the proposal for a resolution also gives the government the opportunity to express support for the signing of the CETA agreement. We also know that the signing date will be on 27 October, but the Council meeting at which the Union representative will be authorised to sign the agreement will take place next week. We also know that there is a need for consensus in the European Union on this issue, i.e. the agreement of the governments of all 28 or 27 Member States. Ladies and gentlemen, Since the Romans, we have known that books have their own destiny - habent sua fata libelli. I feel that this statement also applies a little to international contracts, since sometimes the events caused by the contract go far beyond the provisions on content. I would like to mention an example: the refusal to sign the EU-Ukraine Association and Free Trade Agreement led to a direct uprising and political and cultural change by the Ukrainian President at that time. Ladies and gentlemen, CETA seems to be beyond itself. In some European countries, the fear of globalisation is embodied in this Treaty. And it is common for us to watch in Europe that citizens are affected by fear, even those who oppose it, and not hope. I feel that this is why it is necessary to examine this contract in detail, without anger and bias. For example, it is worth answering the opponents of the contract with facts. There's only one thing I want to mention, and I'm not bringing up the rest. We know that CETA provides for free trade, but in sensitive sectors, individual products will be subject to tariff quotas and the provisions are precisely listed in Annex 1 to the Treaty. For example, processed shrimp, buffalo meat, is subject to a certain tariff quota. The tariff quota for chilled or frozen beef and veal in Canada will reach the maximum six years after the entry into force of CETA, i.e. 45 thousand tonnes. And on my count, that means 10 ounces of Canadian beef per year for every European. This tariff quota represents 0.6 per cent of EU consumption. Since hormonal products cannot be imported into the Union, Canadian breeders will have to produce or produce beef in a separate food chain. The provisions of the EU-Canada Animal Health Treaty for meat and meat products have been included in CETA for this purpose. It was just an example of many. I would also like to mention that CETA is a so-called mixed agreement. So not only the European Parliament, but all the parliaments of the Member States, including the Hungarian Parliament, will also need the vote and the strengthening of the regional parliaments of some federal Member States. We know this procedure doesn't take a year or two. I could also say that this question will be with us for several years. At this point, I would also like to state that the European Commission has been in that position for a very long time, exactly until July of this year, and we know that we have often debated that CETA is exclusively within the competence of the European Union. [[19.00]] But on this issue, thank God, the Commission has seen that it is wiser to give in to the pressure of the Member States, including the pressure of the Hungarian government, because we have been urging for years in various forums that the CETA agreement should not be decided behind the backs of the national parliaments. Ladies and gentlemen, If we look at the current situation of the European Union, I believe that it does not matter at all what further steps the Member States, the EU institutions, will take to keep the Union together. We also saw that last week the Speakers of the Member States held an informal meeting in Bratislava, and a few weeks ago there was a summit of Heads of State or Government in Bratislava, where all participants agreed that certain positive messages should be sent to citizens in order to strengthen the European Union. It is clear that signing the comprehensive agreement between the EU and Canada would be a serious and positive message for the Union's partners and the future of the Union. [[Z. Carpathian Daniel: Shame on you!]] Ladies and gentlemen, In the general debate, I have already mentioned that CETA, I might say, is epic. But I do not think that it should be confused with the most influential ancient Greek epic, Iliasia Homer. There's no Achilles, there's no Hector, there's no Agamemnon, there's no Trojan horse. I would like to underline that the Canadian agreement is not a Trojan horse. In my opinion, it cannot be seen as the forerunner of the TTIP agreement with the U.S. which is still negotiating. I would like to emphasise this because in recent weeks there has been a lot of pressure on CETA and at all on free trade negotiations and agreements. I am convinced that we must approach the issue not primarily on an emotional basis, but on a realistic basis, the new opportunities for economic cooperation between the Union of 500 million inhabitants and Canada of 38 million inhabitants. [[István Jakab, vice-president of the Parliament takes the chair.]] Ladies and gentlemen, Finally, I would like to point out that the legislative committee's amendment correctly clarifies the text of the proposal for a decision, and that it also creates some consistency with the parliamentary decision of 11/2016 of June. It shall also record a guarantee element by refusing to approve the provisional application of the provisions of the CETA Agreement laid down in the competence of the Member States. This therefore also means that provisional application can only cover matters falling within the exclusive competence of the Union. Accordingly, provisions relating to the permanent investment court may not be applied after signature, but only after ratification. Finally, I would remind my fellow Members that Parliament will also have the opportunity to exchange ideas, debate and decide on the CETA agreement itself, as the ratification procedure is much further away, in two, three, five or six years. This process, therefore, will mean years at EU level. Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask that the Legislative Committee, by its amendment, support the adoption of the proposal for a decision. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of Fidesz.]]
u2016-10-10-268	Thank you very much, Congressman. Welcome, fellow Members. Dear Parliament, A statement will be made by Congressman Tibor Bana, Jobbik Group. Here you go.
u2016-10-10-269	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear fellow Members, I find their attitude outrageous and cynical, because, compared to what has been said before, it has appeared here at committee meetings that you are trying to hide behind the fact that the provisional application has been included, as a summary amendment proposal, and they believe that this is done in terms of our national self-determination, and they are trying to communicate outwards that, of course, you are fighting a freedom fight in this matter, too, and that you are defending national interests. However, the reality is radically opposed, and it is glad that the opinion of the Committee on Sustainable Development has also been shown in this direction, and the speech of our fellow MP János Bencsik is certainly a fresh spot in this respect, and I trust that there will be others in your benches who will express their views in the same way during the vote. After all, the argument that they put in this amendment is extremely cynical and deceitful, they change the text of the resolution proposal a little bit, and then they think that it is possible to tell the public that, after all, the Parliament did what it could, and that the substantive questions will be decided only later. Well, that's not true. Since the text is final, it will not change in substance, so in this way it would be possible to say a decisive no to this convention, because it is extremely harmful to our country from the point of view of food safety, environmental protection and health protection, but I could mention the narrowing of labour rights guarantees, or the fact that it will put multinational companies in the position, and that this free trade agreement will have very negative consequences for Hungarian small and medium-sized enterprises, if we allow it to come into effect. We right-wingers do not want to let this happen, and fortunately, we can see that there are those at European level who are firmly in this position. There have been large demonstrations in Western Europe, but I would like to note that 107 NGOs, including the Green Reply NGO, have sent a call to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Trade, asking the Government not to support the EU-Canada Free Trade Agreement. And, of course, you can play with the words here, you can say that ultimately, the ICS is not the same as ISDS, and then in the TTIP it can appear in this way, well, it is also a false argument. The State-investor dispute resolution mechanism has not substantially changed in the overall trade and economic investment in CETA, so it contains a message similar to the previous ones, which means that the multinationals can sue the nation states, and now, my fellow members of the government, most of you want to side with this treaty in an astonishing and outrageous way. And yes, my fellow Member Hörcsik, we say that this is the hallway to the TTIP, the EU-US Free Trade Agreement, and that this argument in this debate clearly shows that this can be your position at the end of the TTIP, but we trust that, by then, by the time the negotiations are pushed out, there will be a Jobbik government for the country, and we will prevent it from happening on the basis of a serious mandate of voters to do so. Because if it is up to you, you will certainly support this agreement, which is clear to the sun, but it is sad that you have spoken double over the last few years. Not at first anyway, so there are many examples of how many times they have done this and how many times they have always said that they should sit at the negotiating table, but then we will see how these agreements will develop, and in the end we will be able to express our opinion. Yes, in all cases, what happened during the Socialist-Free Democratic governments and during the Fidesz governments was that this argument was sold to the Hungarians, and then at the end they supported every proposal - I think here, too, the Lisbon Treaty - which was extremely damaging to our sovereignty and our national self-determination. There is one difference between the two, since most of the text of the Lisbon Treaty was not known by the Members of Parliament when they voted in 2007, but now in the case of CETA it is up to us what it is about. So it is even more outrageous and unacceptable that, in the end, although there are some countersounds, and you can be pleased with that, but the government and your strong people seem to have a clear position that this should be supported and thus give the necessary authority to the competent persons to sign. This is an extremely significant step backwards from the previous proposal for a resolution, which was adopted here in Parliament a few months ago, and which stated that yes, it is necessary to enforce the interests of Hungary either in the GMO case or in the State-investor dispute resolution mechanism, and with such an attitude, the position of CETA will have to be established. That's not what happened. Numerous American companies have a Canadian subsidiary, so this also supports the argument that, fortunately, more and more people are making in Hungary, and I think there are serious moves to be expected in the future that TTIP is indeed embedded in this agreement before us, the negotiations of which were also as opaque as in the case of the EU-US Free Trade Agreement. [[19.10]] And I would like to point out one more thing: when the Commissioner responsible for trade policy was here, Commissioner Cecilia Malmström, then she said amazingly that, of course, large demonstrations are taking place all over Europe, but the majority are not involved in these movements, so it is essentially possible to say that Europeans are in favour of this trade agreement. Well, that's another cynical and deceitful argument, and I trusted that Fidesz would not appear in the debate with such comments, but unfortunately I was disappointed. On the other hand, we should take the risk that you said, and we believe that standing up for our national self-determination, that the government should definitely say no to CETA, even because our fellow Member Hörcsik pointed out that only consensus could be accepted. It should be prevented in any case, and I would like to underline it once again, unfortunately we have already said that we will be right, and that will be the position of the government and the governing parties. But I am asking you, in this way, in the last word, in a quotation sign, to review this before tomorrow's vote, and I trust that the majority of the Members of the Fidesz will ultimately vote in the same way as our fellow Member Bencsik expressed his opinion. We better guys are doing everything we can against CETA. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2016-10-10-270	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congressman György Szilágyi, Jobbik Group.
u2016-10-10-271	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. In short, Dr. Richárd Hörcsik said that what a great achievement it is that CETA will have to be approved by Parliament. Why would there be a result when you're gonna vote for him? Or I do not know if they will actually vote, because as I listened to Congressman Hörcsik, he said that there is no need to be afraid of compensation, whether from the point of view of Hungary or the European Union, that there is no need to be afraid of genetically modified foods. Mr. Congressman, it would be best if, say, you put in a deposit, a lawyer lodged a statement that, if there is any compensation or genetically modified food, you would be able to guarantee it with your entire assets, because you could say such things. By the way, I would like to explain that there were three important issues at the TAB meeting. These three important questions have not been answered at all. One of the important issues was whether Fidesz supports CETA and TTIP or does not support it. They didn't give me an answer. Mr. Hörchik, I hear you'll probably support him. The other question was whether Hungary would be handed over to multinationals, whether Hungary would be given to multinational capital. They didn't give me an answer. And there was a third important question that came up after Gábor Fodor spoke, when he said that we liberals, he sat there alone, and I asked him who he was, liberals. Does this include Zsolt Németh? Does that include most of the Fidesz? Are you going to return to the Liberal International? So you're gonna vote for this? The only problem was that János Bencsik was not there at the TAB meeting. I thank you very much for at least expressing your arguments openly, clearly and honestly. And we have also clearly seen that one thing that is certain, János Bencsik is not a liberal, he will not vote for CETA if he gets here, in front of Parliament. I'm afraid you're going to commit treason, and you're going to vote for it. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik. A statement from Jobbik: Don't praise him so much...]]
u2016-10-10-272	Dear Parliament, Statement by Mr Róbert Sallai Benedek, LMP Group. You have the floor.
u2016-10-10-273	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I've been looking for a quote here, Matthew 5:37. Keep talking like that, yeah, no. What's on top of that is from evil. This is what I would expect from the government and conservative values to say yes or no. What has been said here, and the position of the Legislative Committee, as you have said, is about misconception from evil. This is when we are practically unable to get to know the specific position that Fidesz-KDNP wants, what it wants, and what it stands for. Basically, I think that in many cases this issue is not just about trade, and it is not just about international relations, it is a matter of world view. The fact that there are very big problems in the world, I think all of you see it, because everyone who deals with public life sees what is happening in China, what is happening in India, what is happening in the whole African continent, and what is the transatlantic geopolitical need for European cooperation, which even raises opportunities for such cooperation. The question is that this free trade agreement, or what is ahead of us at the moment, only CETA, strengthens these unfavourable processes or may hinder them. In my own belief, and this is what I am talking about, that it is partly a worldview issue, agreements of this kind and this kind of free trade system, this globalisation process, which has brought a significant part of the world's problems to us, to the European Union as well as to all the rest of the world. The question is that this is the way that humanity wants to go, or maybe it's thinking in another direction. When it comes only to words, Fidesz-KDNP and its leaders and Prime Minister Viktor Orbán also regularly talk about national sovereignty, talking about the issue of the migrant referendum or the quota referendum, it has been regularly said that society must decide on the issue that concerns us. At the moment, I think that this is the real issue of sovereignty. This is what we need to talk about, whether we are fully serving Hungary's interests in the larger Member States of the European Union and whether we are serving the European Union's interests in international wholesale trade and multinational companies. Obviously, it would be good if we could have a substantive debate, and Mr Secretary of State could do his thoughts as a participant in the debate, but I know that this is a final debate and not a general debate, and that these thoughts cannot be repeated. But I must tell you frankly that with pro-government support, when my fellow members in the Committee on Sustainable Development supported us to reject it completely, I was confident, because I saw that you did not want some level of cooperation with the European Liberals, Cecilia Malmström and his policy, and you do not identify with it, but you stand up for national interests and values. It seemed to you that the sovereignty of the nation was important, and what I saw in the Committee on Sustainable Development, thanks to the courage of some of my pro-government fellow Members, was a good feeling that we could agree and think together on this truly national decisive issue, as we should in many cases decide on the fate of the country together. Compared to this, what you have just said, whether by my fellow Member Répássy or President Hörcsik, means by selling out the country, by making a fake policy, that we will talk about it and then we will come back to it later, that is what is from evil. This is when we do not speak straight and respond to what our values are. If our common values are important, if the future of Hungarian businesses, the Hungarian food security, the preservation of the natural wealth of the Carpathian Basin, the sustainable use of its natural resources is of least importance to you, then we should not support the kind of free trade convention system that is roughly equivalent to a qualified treason, as they deliver the society of the country to the basic interests of another continent, another country; in this case, even more. I think that there are still those ideas in Fidesz, and there are also the values that have been created at some point, and many of them have the fact that what they represent here is roughly the unsuitable category if they vote for it. I ask my fellow members of the Government to listen to what Mr Orbán asked for in 1990 in the colors of Fidesz, to listen to the password from my pop number, which is the beginning of your heart, so that for once loyalty to the nation, loyalty to the country, loyalty to the party and loyalty to the Prime Minister are much more important. I ask you to reject this agreement on the basis of your conscience and to support the protection of Hungary's sovereignty and society by saying no to CETA. Thank you for the floor, Mr President. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2016-10-10-274	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I wonder if anyone else would like to speak on the agenda. [[For signal:]] I give the floor to Congressman Richard Hörcsik. Here you go, Congressman.
u2016-10-10-275	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, I would just like to respond very briefly to the speech by my fellow Members Szilágyi and Bana, whose opinion I respect. You have to cross a bridge when you get there. That's when we have to pull out the big book to talk about whether or not we're going over there. When the final word has to be said to the Hungarian Parliament, it will not be tomorrow, it will be two, three or five years from now, and unlike my fellow Member Bana, I hope that there is still a fidesz majority of Parliament who can say it. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-10-10-276	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I'm asking if there's another candidate. [[No signal.]] I don't see any other candidates. The debate is closed. I give the floor to the Secretary of State, Magyar Levente, who wishes to respond to what has been said in the debate. Here you go, Secretary of State. [[19.20]]
u2016-10-10-277	Mr President, Dear House, I would just like to reflect very briefly on the debate on CETA and not mention the content elements that have been discussed in detail in previous forums and on previous occasions. If I may, I would not go through this in-depth debate again, I would simply like to address the formality aspect which, I think, can be interpreted as a clear result of the previous parliamentary resolution, namely that this resolution clearly states that no provisional application can be made in areas falling within the competence of the Member States, which is clearly due to the firm standing of Hungary, the Hungarian Government and a number of other Member States. This alone gives us the opportunity - and do not prejudicate, where appropriate, the steps to be taken in four to five years' time - to take a responsible decision when the time comes, based solely on the temporary application of the country to the EU's competence. I would therefore like to stress that we are not deciding on the entry into force - the whole process can be cancelled and stopped later in the ratification process - but we are deciding that the Government can sign the agreement at the end of October. Dear House, I would also like to draw attention to the fact that, after all, the precautionary principle appears to have been published with binding effect on the Convention, although the bilateral binding interpretation or declaration will not contain a clear reference to the precautionary principle, it only refers to it in a metaphor. At the pressure of the Member States, including Hungary, the European Commission has decided that our concerns about biotechnology and the pharmaceutical industry will be adequately addressed by issuing a binding declaration with a clear statement of the precautionary principle, so I would like to comment on the fact that this most controversial aspect of the agreement is thus resolved with satisfaction. Just as it is reassuring that the investment protection aspect, as it also falls within the competence of the Member States, will not be applied. Certain Member States will certainly apply it temporarily in their ratification, and we will also be able to take a position on this in the ratification process, whether we intend to decide on provisional application or whether we intend to make the whole convention impossible by taking a negative decision when ratifying it. I think, overall and summing up the debate, that the two key points of discussion, GMO and investment protection, will thus be resolved in a satisfactory manner. Otherwise, the objections and comments in this regard, unfortunately - and this was not a building experience - were, in the rarest case, only objective and, in particular, legal and text-based. Unfortunately, we often had the impression that the speakers, whether in favour of CETA or in favour of CETA, were aware of the specific content of the relevant text in the rarest case. Although this is a four hundred-page agreement and, of course, we do not expect anyone to draw up a legal opinion on the text as a whole, it might have been expected that we could have had a substantive professional debate on the relevant counterverse parts, but unfortunately, this was only given in the rarest case, because once again, a delayed debate of faith has taken the character of a joint reflection on CETA. In any case, Honourable Parliament, I see that we have been able to settle the content issues fairly reassuringly, and we have been able to answer the doubts that have come from any side and have served as the basis for the establishment of positions to condemn and not conclude CETA, and, overall, an agreement could have been reached to serve the interests of Hungary. And if we see that it does not serve Hungary's interests - although we see little chance of doing so - then Hungary, thanks to the Hungarian Parliament and the Hungarian government, will still have the opportunity to stand up, the Hungarian Parliament will have the opportunity to do what we have fought for for for a long time to stop the process in the future. Thank you very much for this opportunity, Mr President. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-10-10-278	Thank you very much, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, The decisions will take place on our meeting tomorrow. Dear Parliament, The Commission's reports on amendments to the laws governing cooperation in the EU and international criminal matters and to certain criminal law laws for harmonisation purposes and the summary amendment proposal follow up. Government referral T/1232. The Commission's non-autonomous texts are available on the Parliament's IT network. I declare that the presentation will be discussed as an EU item on the agenda by the Parliament. Dear Parliament, First, the position of the Legislative Committee and the formulated minority opinion will be presented in a 15-minute time frame. I give the floor to Congressman Vas Imre, rapporteur of the committee.
u2016-10-10-279	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, I would like to inform the Parliament that the Legislative Committee discussed T/1232 on 6 October. The draft law amending the laws governing EU and international cooperation in criminal matters, as well as certain criminal law laws for harmonisation purposes, was tabled by the Committee with 23 votes in favour, with 13 abstentions, without voting against. The summarised amendment contains, on the one hand, the motion of the Judicial Committee, with the exception of its three points, and the legislative committee's own amendment, which replaces in part the three amendments tabled by the Judicial Committee. The summary amending proposal contains mainly linguistic and technical clarifications, as well as the legislator, in accordance with European Union law, provides for the possibility for the national arrest warrant issued by the investigating authority to serve as the basis for a European arrest warrant. At the committee's meeting, Jobbik was primarily critical of the amendment of the fact of hate speech and, more specifically, of the crime of incitement to hatred. With the amendment, however, the bill provides for the possibility of introducing provisions that harmonise with international expectations and are compatible with Hungarian criminal law traditions in the Btk., while allowing the case law to open a more precise, new-thinking line of interpretation. In addition, the amendment serves to further strengthen the previous legislative intention of the Fourth Amendment to the Fundamental Law of Hungary under Article IX. It has already been launched through the addition of Article 4 to ensure that more effective, complex action is taken against hate speech. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-10-10-280	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, The minority opinion will now be presented within a seven-minute timeframe. I give the floor to Congressman Gábor Staudt. Here you go, Congressman.
u2016-10-10-281	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, I listened to Imre Vas, who gave the opinions of the committee, but he did not understand exactly what happened there, I must say, and it is therefore very good that I can say this in the minority opinion. Otherwise, a slightly different, even very different, position was expressed by the Socialist Party and Jobbik. Since I am now expressing my only minority opinion, I must briefly describe both of them. On the one hand, Gergely Bárándy of the Socialist Party said at the meeting that they would like the facts of hate speech to be included in the Btk., and he thought that what the government was trying to modify in the Btk. was only a certain modification of the facts of incitement to hatred, and he thought, by the way, that this would be possible under the Fundamental Law, i.e. the introduction of the amendment. [[19.30]] That was what, by the way, the Socialist Party has said several times. What did we say, the Jobbik said? Imre Vas, my fellow Member, we have criticized not only that, nor that we have criticised the fact that you are touching it. Inciting hatred to the facts. The government has the right to amend the Btk., especially because it can be done with a simple shot. Even the opposition does not need any approval, it is not a two-thirds law. What is a bigger problem, and this has also been raised here in the general debate, and this is what the Commission's debate was about, is that you are hiding behind the Union and you are referring to EU law when these amendments are made. What's this about? We have seen that the Hungarian law is literally in line with what the Union expects. So our obligation to harmonise ends with Hungary having to adopt or maintain a law that complies with EU obligations. That's right. If you look at it word for word, the content of the Hungarian law corresponds to what the Union expects. Another issue is that judicial practice in Hungary, and here we are talking about judicial and constitutional practice across governments, has developed an interpretation of this fact. He has created an interpretation that the Union does not like. What can be done in this case? Obviously, the Hungarian government can be called upon to change the facts. The government can do this in its own right, but not by referring to the need to harmonise these laws, because these laws are currently harmonised. So the debate is not about what and how they change, but about whether it is possible to harmonise case law, judicial practice, constitutional law practice, or whether the Union expects Hungary to harmonise them. And this is where the point begins that they could not make a legislative reference that would expect, because we do not have an obligation to the Union to harmonise judicial practices beyond the literal text of the legislation as a requirement; because that is what we are talking about. In fact, I suggested at the committee meeting that this was in fact contrary to the decision and freedom of interpretation of one of the branches of power. After all, the Hungarian Parliament can do so much, and all the Union can do is literally claim these laws in Hungary. Now, in this situation, you are going to set a precedent, and Róbert Répássy, even in the general debate, and perhaps in the committee, was pleased that he was happy that we could now, with the help of the Union, take down a crystallized practice in the Constitutional Court more than 20 years ago. I think that we should not be happy, we should be sad, because the Hungarian government has practically called on the Union to subjugate a judicial practice; because that is what this is about. If, in the future, other judicial practices do not suit you or the Union, and it is in particular the Union that is a more critical point, then they will intervene in the same way. Of course, there can be a reason for this, but we can't even see clearly what the expectations of the Union were. After all, and I said that at the committee meeting, and this was something new here compared to the general debate, I asked that the material of the pilot procedure, or at least the letter that the Commission sent to the Hungarian government, be provided with the basis for this to be expected. Now, the contents of this have been described, sent to me, but not to the original material, with reference to the fact that this is not public. How, then, as legislators, do they expect us to vote for this when we do not see what really came from Brussels as an expectation? That you're following it, you're not following it, you're interpreting it in a broad sense, you're interpreting it narrowly? Believe me, this is important because, in cases where it was verifiable, when a directive had to be transposed, this is not a small number of times, legislation has been introduced by reference to the fact that this is an EU requirement, it is included in the directive. But when we have looked at these guidelines, they are usually formulated in a range from one to one, and it can obviously be strictly, less strictly implanted and transposed into Hungarian law. And you, the government, in many cases, either I have to say, in most cases, did not choose the best solution for the Hungarian nation, or the references were false, so it was not exactly what the European Union expected, and it was not exactly what you brought into the Parliament. So we are skeptical and, by the way, I also asked the president of NAIH whether these materials are really quasi-encryptable or can be treated as classified. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2016-10-10-282	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I will ask Mr Pál Völner, Secretary of State, if he would like to speak now, or if he would like to discuss the agenda later. [[For signal:]] Yes, Mr Secretary of State has indicated that he wishes to speak later. Dear Parliament, No rapporteur was presented by the designated Judicial Committee. It is now time for the speeches by its representatives. I would like to inform you that the agenda is being discussed in a time frame. There is no possibility of a two-minute comment during the debate. I give the floor to Congressman Gábor Staudt, Jobbik Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2016-10-10-283	Only very briefly, I do not think that there will be too much debate here, although we should, by the way, because we are talking about issues that affect the fundamental foundation of the Union, EU law and its application in Hungary. But what I would like to say here, among the normal comments, is that, by the way, the proposal, the salad proposal, which is before us, also contains a lot of eligible provisions. So it's just a point I've given you about the fact of incitement to hatred, but I also have to say that it's very difficult to cast a normal vote in these cases. After all, when a package is presented to the Parliament, when a number of proposals for a positive amendment are put before the Parliament, in many cases, we could say yes to these good points. But unfortunately, there's one or two in it, like this one, which is the only reason we can stay. After all, if these were to be included in the standard deviation and we said yes to them, then we might actually give up a point of Hungary's sovereignty that seems small, but is of any importance in principle. And believe me, this could set a precedent. Brussels has a great appetite, and I must say that it is boundless. And if they see that in a pilot procedure, when, moreover, Hungarian legislation is already harmonised in this case, the government blows so quickly, they will do so in other cases as well. I think it would have been good if there had been still bargaining and the legal arguments had been made towards Brussels. We don't know where you're going, because these are classified correspondence, so it would have been nice if these arguments had gone further. And even if the Commission had not been convinced and, where appropriate, an infringement procedure had been initiated, it would have been possible to amend these laws or this place of law. So I must say that we cannot appreciate what is happening, as Róbert Répássy said, that you are pleased that this request came from Brussels and are pleased that you can now include judicial practice and constitutional judicial practice in the area where harmonisation obligations can be regarded as existing. We are not happy about this, and I will say it again, and we would like this not to set a precedent. Believe me, this pendulum can even swing back to you at a later point in the story. So I have to say that this has not been handled elegantly, so we will only be able to abstain from the whole proposal because of what has been said here. Mr President, thank you very much for the floor. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2016-10-10-284	Thank you very much, Congressman. I would like to ask my fellow Members if anyone else would like to speak on the agenda. [[There's no candidate.]] I don't see any contact. The debate is closed. I give the floor to Mr Pál Völner, as rapporteur, to respond to what has been said in the debate. [[19.40]]
u2016-10-10-285	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Honourable Congressman, Thank you, on the one hand, for the agreement of the Jobbik Group on most of the proposal and for its professional acceptance. I would like to say a few points in connection with the amendment of the Btk.; therefore, that although the framework decision itself - the transposition, the former - does indeed cover the content of the framework decision, but on the basis of the comments, for example, the wording concerning a group, and now also uses the expression against the Framework Decision itself or one of its members. Thus, this will be the extension of terms within the legal facts, and the ongoing infringement procedure itself, since the Hungarian legislation does not correspond literally to the adopted framework decision, is why this amendment was made in part, but this does not mean that anyone provoked Brussels to initiate an infringement procedure in such a case, or that any practice would have been changed by the Hungarian government. That is what I wanted to add to what I said, and thank you very much for your participation in the debate. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-10-10-286	I thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, The decisions will take place on our meeting tomorrow. Dear Parliament, Following the review of the central offices and the district Commission reports on the amendment of certain laws relating to the strengthening of offices and on the presentation of the tasks of certain budgetary bodies and the discussion of the summarised amendment proposal. The government referral is T/19107. The Commission's non-autonomous texts are available on the Parliament's IT network. Dear Parliament, The debate will be the first to present the position of the Legislative Committee within a 15-minute time frame. I give the floor to Congressman Vas Imre, rapporteur of the committee.
u2016-10-10-287	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, I inform the Parliament that the Legislative Committee is the house rules 46. T/11907 on the amendment of certain laws relating to the review of central offices and the ratification of district and metropolitan offices and the delegation of tasks of certain budgetary bodies. The Committee presented a proposal for amendment and a summary report with 20 votes in favour, 8 against and 4 abstentions. The summarised amendment contains 44 points out of the 55-point motion of the Judicial Committee on the one hand and the Legislative Committee's own proposal, which also clarifies the remaining 11 points. As the Secretary of State said at the committee meeting, the legislation has been drawn up for almost ten months, and the consultation is practically pending the adoption of the bill. However, I believe that the work invested is not in vain, since it is part of the 21st century. A new milestone has been set up in the Hungarian administration of the century. With the strengthening of district offices, we are getting closer and closer to a system of administrative traditions that is at the same time modern and efficient. Please support the adoption of the bill. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-10-10-288	Thank you very much, Congressman. I would like to ask the Secretary of State whether he wishes to speak at this stage of the debate or later. I give the floor to the Secretary of State.
u2016-10-10-289	Mr President, I do not wish to respond to what has been said here. I can say that the government supports the single proposal. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-10-10-290	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, No rapporteur was presented by the designated Judicial Committee. It is now time for the speeches by its representatives. I'm asking if anyone wants to speak. [[No one's reporting.]] I don't see any contact. The debate is closed. Secretary of State has already indicated the position of government. I'll ask you again.
u2016-10-10-291	Mr President, the debates took place at committee meetings. There, the representative of the Government responded to questions on the Judicial Committee and on the TAB. It is mainly technical amendments to this bill and to ensure the freedom of government to organise a new organisational background structure. Since there was no substantive debate here, there is nothing to respond to. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-10-10-292	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, The decisions will take place on our meeting tomorrow. Dear Parliament, Next up is the 2007 LXXXVI on electricity. The Commission's reports on the amendment of the Act and the debate on the draft amendment. The government referral is T/19101. The Commission's non-autonomous texts are available on the parliamentary IT network. Dear Parliament, The debate will be the first to present the position of the Legislative Committee within a 15-minute time frame. I give the floor to Congressman László Vécsey, rapporteur of the committee. Here you go, Congressman.
u2016-10-10-293	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, On 6 October 2016, the Legislative Committee discussed T/11901. LXXXVI of 2007 on electricity A bill amending the Act was tabled by the Committee with 22 votes in favour, 13 votes against and no abstentions, and a summary report. The summarised amendment contains the amendments of a linguistic and codification nature proposed by the Economic Committee, which have been supported by our committee. The Commission's meeting raised a dispute that is closely linked to renewable energy sources, i.e. how much the government supports wind energy production. At the same time, Mr Secretary of State said, I think he will say that in Hungary renewable energy sources and methods of energy production should be supported, but supporting the production of renewable energy sources does not mean that the government should put rational consideration in the background. In order to justify this, there are about 170 wind turbines operating in Hungary today. Their utilisation for electricity generation capacity there is around 23 per cent, i.e. very low. Hungary needs a type of energy strategy that takes account of the natural characteristics of the country, and on this basis we prefer solar energy in the energy strategy. It is very important to note that in relation to wind energy, we are basically talking about the production of industrial wind energy, so this bill is also born in relation to the production of industrial wind energy, but in rural areas, in suitable areas, wind turbines that can partially produce the energy needs of private dwellings can continue to be built, and in this respect there is no restriction in the new regulation. I would therefore ask my honourable Members, this House, to support the bill. Thank you for your attention, Mr. President. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-10-10-294	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I will ask Mr Nándor Csepreghy, as rapporteur, whether he wishes to speak at this stage of the debate. [[For signal:]] Not at the moment. Mr State Secretary points out that he intends to speak at a later stage in the debate. Dear Parliament, No rapporteur was drawn up by the designated Economic Committee. It is now up to the Members to speak within the time-frame on the agenda. I give the floor to Congressman Robert Benedek Sallai, the LMP Group.
u2016-10-10-295	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, Obviously, I do not want to repeat my statements in the general debate, but I have tried in full good faith, even though I do not agree with the directions of the proposal, to make use of an amendment. It is completely incomprehensible what the Economic Committee found wrong with it, since I did not violate any political interests, I was merely trying to put on a slightly more professional basis the pieces of legislation that were a little superficially regulated at the moment. Unfortunately, this has not been supported, and my efforts to do so have failed in the detailed debate. [[19.50]] There is one thing that needs to be clarified clearly: Hungary is the only place in the European Union where the windmill has not been built since 2010, Hungary is the only one in the whole EU once. Twice: since 2010, neighbouring Romania has multiplied wind revenues. At present, one and a half times the electricity produced by the Paks Nuclear Power Plant is what our Romanian neighbours can produce. But it is not just that, obviously we could look at all the other countries in Europe, Germany, Denmark, what results they can deliver, and this is what my fellow Fidesz fellow Member is coming to say, that rational aspects must also be taken into account, and he also said: his natural characteristics. Why, do we have a uranium mine? Can we handle it? It is virtually impossible for Hungary to operate a nuclear power plant in a sustainable manner at the moment. It is a completely false direction, and unfortunately, Viktor Orbán connects the country to an atom, which is unacceptable in the 21st century. In the first century, since there is virtually no other country in Europe that would go in this direction, Hungary is the only one who is completely restraining it. The fact that the solar energy support systems have been implemented is obviously a matter of fact, since there have been such support from several operational programmes, but Hungary is also the driving force behind, and there has not been any substantial progress in this. To which is rational, obviously we have heard clever answers other than the secretary of state, one is that the sun is not shining, and the other is that the wind is not blowing. Obviously, we had to respond to this because we only need adaptable, fitting, adaptive energy systems that meet the natural characteristics of the Carpathian Basin. The southern counties of Hungary, where the number of sunny hours is above 2000, are obviously capable of making progress in solar energy supply, but also a significant part of Hungary is capable of making efforts to produce wind energy. We are not talking about a large part or a few percent, but there could be virtually a sustainable long-term system, and basically it could be created to take into account the audited data of the European Wind Energy Alliance, since more than 80 percent of the total energy generation capacity in the EU was renewable energy, mainly solar and wind energy. Hungary is one of the wrong directions, which is going in a completely different direction, and unfortunately, in the detailed debate I have failed to convince you that what you are doing about Hungary's energy vision is very, very negative and should be condemned. Only in the EU in 2015, a total capacity of 28.9 gigawatts was built into the system, 44 percent of which was a 12.8 percent gigawatt wind power plant, 30 percent, 8.5 percent gigawatts solar power plant, and in visible volumes only gas and wind power plants were built almost exclusively in Eastern Europe, and the nuclear power plant has not been built anywhere for many years. Wind energy is a common option, it is not a political question of who is pro-wind energy. If we think wisely and sustainably about Hungary's energy vision, then it is a much more forward-looking, much more the 21st. It would require a corresponding energy system for the century, in which it is not for the state to invest. Paks is based on Hungarian taxpayers' money. There are many European examples of how local governments, local businesses and local farmers were able to participate in such energy cooperatives. If we do not enter this direction, we are guaranteed to connect the country to the atom for the long term, and this is what makes it very, very difficult to leave due to the specialities of energy systems. I ask the Government to reconsider its fate and try to take the European path that the vast majority of EU Member States, including those to the east of us, have chosen for a reason, because the 21st edition of the 21st edition of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union has been adopted. In the first century, only this direction can guarantee that our offspring, future generations, will be given energy systems that will not endanger their livelihoods in the future. I ask the Government and my fellow members of the Government to do so. Thank you for the floor, Mr President.
u2016-10-10-296	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I am asking my fellow Members if they have any further intention of speaking. [[No signal.]] Since I do not see a candidate, the debate is closed and I give the floor to Mr Nándor Csepreghy. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2016-10-10-297	Thank you very much, Mr President, for the opportunity to speak. I had the pleasure of discussing this issue with the Members at the opening debate and at the TAB. I ask Mr Sallai that when we talk about government energy policy, he accepts the view that just because we do not consider one of the means of renewable energy production to be optimal in Hungary, this does not mean that the government is anti-renewable. On the one hand, the agreement signed with the European Commission to increase the share of renewable energy to 14.6% by 2020 and, on the other hand, to finance a number of investments where we do put in place renewable energy-generating instruments proves the contrary. But even though you are trying to make a joke about this, Congressman, there are different environmental features that are true of Hungary. For example, parts of the country that are suitable for the deployment of wind power plants cover around 7 percent of the country's territory. It is also a fact that wind power plants, built so far in Hungary, show that built-in wind power plants have used around 23-25 percent of their capacity compared to the capacity available. It is also factually true that in recent years several investors have been allowed to build wind power plants, but these wind power plants have not been built. And it is also a true statement that it can be seen that, in general, it is not business logic, but the logic of the aid policy that dictates the renewable capacity of some investors. If Members have followed up on the debates in the press on, for example, the problems of the new German energy policy, then they can see the disadvantages of an over-strengthened, over-intensive and inadequately thought-out energy policy based on renewables. To talk only about the residential side, such as the fact that German citizens pay three times as much for 1 kilowatt hour of electricity as Hungarian citizens. And when the Hungarian government makes energy policy decisions, it basically takes two aspects into account or has to take into account - I am talking about the current Hungarian government - one of which is how it can provide security of supply, the second, how it can offer the various types of energy to the general public and business use in the cheapest possible way. When I am talking about the fact that the government is committed to renewable energy sources, I think and expect the representatives of the Hungarian Parliament, as citizens, to make a prudent decision that when an alternative solution is offered to a country compared to classical energy production, they will consider which of the most optimal options is available, and in the case of Hungary, solar energy and geothermal energy are the two areas where Hungary can achieve results with the highest efficiency. And why isn't it the wind? It is not the wind because, as I said, industrial research proves or shows that around 7 percent of Hungary's territory is capable of producing electricity with wind energy. To build a wind farm, you'd have to split an area of about one and a half square kilometers. The analogy that we have already discussed with the Member of the opening debate, which places, for example, the amount of electricity produced by the wind turbines to the same extent as Paks's electricity, roughly means that 15,000 square kilometres should be cut from Hungary. Such capacity could be used to install wind wheels capable of producing electricity similar to Paks production or equivalent. The other story is that countries where this works have different environmental and natural characteristics. For example, in Austria and Romania, there are countless reservoirs of pumped hydroelectric power plants, which means that when people consume less, but wind wheels still work, these power plants essentially pump water into the mountains, and when they need higher consumption and more electricity, they produce electricity by lowering them. These capacities are not available in Hungary, which, I think, should also be considered when making such proposals. Overall, I would like to say that the Hungarian government is committed to renewable energy sources, there is a type of wind power plant, which is not the most optimal for Hungary. Why is it that the European Commission says that each Member State has its own power to decide in what type of energy mix it wants to ensure its own security of supply? It is precisely because they know that we have to face completely different talents here in Hungary, such as, say, the Netherlands or the northern European Union Member States. So I ask Members that, when speaking as opposition or pro-government speakers in the Parliament, they should sometimes also look at the reality of what they are arguing about in Hungary, and not only does the political attitude of the party determine the party's speech on this issue compared to the government. [[20.00]] I do not doubt that the Member is committed to renewable energy sources, but Hungary, as on other issues, must choose the way in which it can actually achieve real results. This can be realised by taking into account the importance of focusing on solar energy and geothermal energy in Hungary, but here it is necessary to spend as much as possible, because it is really possible to hope for the creation or creation of an energy mix that would reduce Hungary's energy dependence. By 2020, Hungary will not be an energy independent country, but its external dependence can be greatly reduced, including through these investments. Thank you very much for your kind attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-10-10-298	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, The decisions will take place on our meeting tomorrow. Dear Parliament, The Commission's reports on the Habsburg Ottó Foundation and the final amendment proposal follow up. T/12176 submitted by MEPs János Lázár, Fidesz, Zsolt Semjén, Imre Vejkey and György Rubovszky, KDNP. The Commission's non-autonomous texts are available on the Parliament's IT network. First, the position of the Legislative Committee and the formulated minority opinion will be presented in a 15-minute time frame. I give the floor to Congressman Vas Imre, rapporteur of the committee.
u2016-10-10-299	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, I inform the Parliament that the Legislative Committee discussed T/12176 on 6 October 2016. The bill on the Habsburg Ottó Foundation, submitted by 23 votes in favour, 7 against and 4 abstentions, was submitted by the Committee. The summary amendment contains the text-focusing provision supported by the Judicial Committee. I think it is a great honor and opportunity for Hungary to keep the legacy of Otto Habsburg in our country. Ottó Habsburg was always proud of his attachment to Hungary, he took our country's case to heart. Ladies and gentlemen, it is time for us to take on board the legacy of Otto Habsburg, given that the Government of Hungary undertakes to establish and finance the archives in accordance with current legislation and budgetary possibilities. Please support the bill. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-10-10-300	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, The minority opinion will now be presented within a 7-minute time frame. I give the floor to Congressman László Varga.
u2016-10-10-301	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, As I present the minority opinion, I must first of all express our support for the proposal in substance. Of course, we agree that Otto Habsburg's legacy and heritage must be properly cherished, and we must find the right way to do so in our position. An amendment was tabled accordingly. It is also well known to my fellow Members that, almost ten years ago, even at the time of the MSZP governments, the decision in Parliament was made to prevent local governments, local governments and governments from creating foundations, and in this sense public foundations have ceased. It's obviously a kind of transparent public administration, and I think it was an important decision, and I think it's a good direction. Our amendment was also about the fact that, by the way, Ottó Habsburg's legacy and legacy can be best maintained by finding funds in the budget, in the budget of the Prime Minister's Office, on a scale similar to that which the government intends to allocate through foundations or through a foundation. We therefore believe that although it is very important to care for Otto Habsburg's legacy, his inheritance, the government does not choose a good method, this method cannot be supported in this way, it was for this method that we did not support the proposal, which is why I say this minority opinion now, and therefore we will not be able to obviously support the proposal in tomorrow's vote either. Our amendment was not reflected in the summary amendment by the TAB, so I would ask you - we have another day - to consider our proposal. Let's not start a precedent that I don't think is good in Parliament on other matters. Thank you, Mr. President.
u2016-10-10-302	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I will ask Mr Imre Vejkey, as rapporteur, whether he wishes to speak at this stage of the debate or later. [[On Dr. Imre Vejkey's signal:]] Yes, you have the floor, Congressman.
u2016-10-10-303	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I would like to speak very briefly. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, The Habsburg family offered Hungary's Government the historic cultural legacy of the last Austro-Hungarian heir to the throne, Otto Habsburg. The Hungarian government welcomed the offer with thanks and considered it important that the estate be placed in a decent place and in a decent way. In our view, the most important thing is that this cultural heritage, which is unique in Europe, really goes to the right place, and therefore - by reviewing the amendments - we have decided that we cannot accept the amendments made by the MSZP, because they affect the achievement of the objective. However, we unanimously accepted the TAB's summary amendment proposal as its authors. On this basis, I ask the honourable Parliament that T/12176 be so. Bill No. 1 on the Habsburg Otto Foundation, and T/12177. Proposal XXXVIII of 1992 on public finances. Act and Act LX of 2006 amending certain related laws Act CLXXXI of 2011 on the judicial records of civil society organisations and related procedural rules. It's about amending the law, please accept it. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-10-10-304	I thank the Member for his speech as rapporteur. I would like to inform you that you will have an 8-minute time frame for the closing word. Dear Parliament, I wonder if the Secretary of State would like to speak on behalf of the government. [[On the signal of Nándor Csepreghy:]] The Secretary of State has indicated that not at this stage of the debate. I would like to inform the Honourable Parliament that the designated Justice Committee has not presented a rapporteur. It is now up to Members to take part in the time-frame on which they are to be put on the agenda. I give the floor to Congressman István Szávay. Here you go, Congressman.
u2016-10-10-305	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Mr. Secretary. Congressman! On the part of Jobbik, I explained our position on the proposal in precise and detailed terms in my speech by the lead speaker; I regret that there was no meaningful comment from the authors. I told you then, and let me confirm again that, together with the fact that we see and believe that the Habsburg family's perception of Hungarian history is rather dubious, and we are aware of that, of course, and we believe that Otto Habsburg has done what he has done in recent decades, and that he has really stood up for Hungary on several occasions and raised his voice for Hungary. Therefore, to cherish his memory would be an Eligible, supportive effort, just as it should be acknowledged the noble gesture that the Habsburg family has made by offering this legacy. Nevertheless, I cannot keep quiet that I heard - and perhaps not just me - with a rather bad taste in my mouth - that we had to make a decision on the establishment of this foundation on 6 October; I do not think that this was a lucky coincidence. I originally took the position here a week ago in the debate that we can support the creation of the foundation itself in principle if we get answers to some of our questions about this - this has not happened. So I suggested to the Jobbik faction, which our faction leadership has accepted, that we will refrain from setting up the foundation, including because of the arguments that we have heard from my fellow Member Varga here. Nor do we consider this to be the right way, not to mention that I have a rather strong objection to the way in which Mr Vejkey acted as rapporteur in that debate. [[20.10]] We wanted answers to some of our questions from Congressman Vejkey or even Secretary Völner, and we wanted answers to the question of, for example, who, how, on what basis, will this foundation function. Do we see any guarantees, do we see any assurance that we will not create another Fidesz party foundation? Congressman Vejkey spoke of the common high national significance of this matter with his usual anointing. He even said that he was confident that there would be a consensus with Otto Habsburg on this proposal. It was just that he refused to answer the essential questions when, in one of my speeches, I specifically asked Mr Vejkey to do us a favour and to honour us with the fact that he would not only answer in the closing words, but that there really should be a substantive debate on these issues. Or whether there is a guarantee that this will not only be a once-in-a-lifetime opportunity for the government to violate this ban in 2006 and to set up all kinds of public foundations freely from here on out. We can see that's probably what this is about. Despite the fact that I specifically asked you to do so, Congressman Vejkey cowardly ran away from this debate. By the way, we also heard when the Secretary of State Völner, sitting in front of you, turned around and told you not to answer him when I asked him these questions, and then Mr Vejkey stood up in the closet, and as if nothing had been said here, he read in paper that he was very sorry that the opposition had reservations with Otto Habsburg. So that is the level of the debate that I would like to point out. We will therefore not be able to support this proposal, the establishment of this foundation. We do not see any guarantee that you will not abuse this and, unfortunately, I will go forward, I am sure that you will abuse it. You have no intention of putting any social, political or any consensus behind this proposal. There will be another Fidesz party foundation, like the National Remembrance Committee. That was also the case, was it not, that it was a common national matter, which you, of course, took for yourselves. This is how the Fidesz-KDNP acquires another corner of national politics, memory policy. Not to mention that I should go on to the second practical part of the matter now, since there is another bill, and that is to make the necessary legislative amendments to the foundation. I would just like to repeat myself, for the sake of order, in three sentences: we recommend that you go through the way that every civil society organisation in Hungary today has to go to court on any matter, whether it is the registration or even the transfer of a change. We have a new civil law passed a few years ago, it bleeds from a thousand wounds, clearly, it cries out for change in many ways, it completely renders the operation of the Hungarian civil sphere impossible. And instead of finally being willing to submit a proper consultation, after consulting the stakeholders, this is not typical of you, by the way, they would finally be willing to present a comprehensive amendment to the civil law, compared to this, hiding behind the name of Otto Habsburg, shamelessly, otherwise, I would like to say that, hiding behind the name of Otto Habsburg, they will now open the civil law for the second time, for nothing but to find a way to escape for themselves on a problem matter. That's what Szilárd Németh did recently, when he tried to destroy the Csepel Workers' Home, he did. The only reason we opened the civil law was to give him a legal opportunity to do so. We are now opening the civil law only to ensure that you do not have to be ashamed of the Habsburg House, how long it takes for a civil society organisation to register in Hungary, otherwise they wouldn't be finished by the end of the year. You can obviously know that if you don't listen to the civil sector from anywhere else, or if you don't have more accurate information from there, Congressman, then you can know that from the crappyness that was around the National Youth Council a year or two ago, which the government created, and they couldn't register for a year, because they filed papers that the court has been throwing back after months of waiting. And even government lawyers couldn't register a civil society organization in a year. Here is the civil sphere in Hungary, let us deal with these issues instead. If they touch the civil law, they should touch it in such a way as to deal with general problems affecting the sphere, not just to open a loophole and a way out for themselves. So obviously, this proposal to amend these laws will not be accepted, because we do not agree to another personalised legislation; even if the government does so by reference to Otto Habsburg. And the foundation, by way of derogation from our original intention - and you can only point to yourself about it, Congressman Vejkey, I assume you will not answer me now, only in the closing section - we will not be able to accept it because we have no guarantees, no guarantees of the problems that we have raised. In fact, you have not even honored us with the possibility of a normal dialogue in this regard. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2016-10-10-306	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Secretary of State Nándor Csepreghy. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2016-10-10-307	Mr President, Thank you very much for the floor. Allow me, Mr. President, to respond to a few points. On the one hand, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that tomorrow, when the decision is taken on this issue, it will be 11 October, not 6 October. [[István Szávay: I meant the TAB.]] So if this is the only reason why Jobbik decided not to vote, then the 11th will be the decision when Parliament can decide on this. On the other question: I understand the initiative to amend the law on the problems of civil society organisations to Jobbik, but I do not think that is the issue. This question is about the fact that Archduke Károly Habsburg made a generous offer to Hungary. The government would like to create a legal form whose subsequent eligibility is also feasible, with a board that can only be created with the agreement of the family, fully with the agreement of the family, and which, I think, can cultivate a political heritage that is Hungary XX. Indeed, it is decisive in its 20th century history, and it is also decisive in creating a Europe that is significantly different from today's, based on strong and Christian foundations. I think that such an offer must be fulfilled, and if it is necessary to establish the legal framework, the Hungarian government must support it as an initiative. We take note of the absence of Jobbik from the case, we acknowledge that you do not consider this matter to be such an important issue, we acknowledge that you can find political arguments that give you the power to stay away from it, in this respect I consider the position of the MSZP to be much more correct, who at least says that it can agree with this proposal in substance. Once again, I agree with the question of comprehensive reregulation of civil society organisations, but it is not part of this decision. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[Dr. Imre Vejkey applauds.]]
u2016-10-10-308	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, I'm asking if anyone else would like to speak on the agenda. Yes, I give the floor to Mr István Szávay, in the time frame available.
u2016-10-10-309	Thank you very much for at least giving me some sort of substantive answer, Mr Secretary, even if we do not fully agree on that. Then let me make it clear, Mr Secretary, that there is no slipping or twisting in the record, and I will tell you clearly: basically, we have no substantive objection to the establishment of the Habsburg Otto Foundation, the care of Otto Habsburg's memory and the care of his heritage. I'd like to make that very clear. It's not that we have an objection, it's the way you want it to be, the way you want it, the way you want it, the way you want it to be. I would like to make this very clear. The 6 October concerned last week's decision by the TAB, but obviously the Secretary of State did not pay attention precisely, so I am not talking about tomorrow's decision, but about what Mr Vas Imre presented. So that's our exact position on this case. You read it accurately, that's right. I would therefore like to emphasise once again that we have changed our position, among other things, precisely because of the attitude of the author and because of the lack of answers to our concerns or questions raised. I said this basically in support of this in my keynote speaker's speech. The fact that we do not support the related legislative amendments was clear last week as well. Here, Minister of State, you provide the government with additional licenses, shorter binding deadlines for courts, 15 and 30 days, which do not involve any civil society organisation, and civil society organisations would be happy if their administration were as simple in court as yours will be. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2016-10-10-310	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I ask my fellow Members, Mr Secretary of State, if anyone else wishes to respond. [[No signal.]] I do not see an application; the debate is closed. I will ask Mr Imre Vejkey, as rapporteur, if he wishes to respond to what was said in the debate. [[For signal:]] Yes, you have the floor, Congressman. [[20.20]]
u2016-10-10-311	Mr President, Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, First of all, I must inform my fellow Member, Mr Savay, that in the context of the general debate, I did answer the questions he asked, and I have also answered all the opposition representatives' questions. Ladies and gentlemen, I must stress once again that everyone understands, too, my fellow Member Szávay, that the purpose of the amendment is, therefore, to give Parliament the opportunity, to give the Government the opportunity to establish a foundation on the basis of a separate mandate given by law, that is, the Parliament could authorise the Government to establish foundations in a special case. This means, ladies and gentlemen, that, by adopting the new law, the National Assembly would authorise the Government to establish a foundation, which in this case intends to organise the establishment of the Habsburg Otto Foundation. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-10-10-312	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, The decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting. Dear Parliament, Next up is the 1992 XXXVIII on public finances. Act LXV of 2006 amending certain related laws Act CLXXXI of 2011 on the judicial records of civil society organisations and related procedural rules. Discussion of the Commission's report on the proposed amendment to the Act. T/12177 submitted by MEPs János Lázár, Fidesz, Zsolt Semjén, Imre Vejkey and György Rubovszky, KDNP The Commission's non-autonomous texts are available on the Parliament's IT network. I will ask the rapporteur, Mr Imre Vejkey, if he wishes to speak. [[For signal:]] The Member points out that he does not wish to speak at this stage of the debate. Dear Parliament, I ask my fellow Members if anyone wishes to speak within the context of this agenda. [[There's no candidate.]] I will ask Mr Secretary of State if he wishes to speak. [[On the signal of Nándor Csepreghy:]] Secretary of State says no. Dear Parliament, As no one has spoken in the debate, the debate is closed. As there has not been a debate, I would like to ask Mr Vejkey, as rapporteur, whether he wishes to close. [[For signal:]] Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2016-10-10-313	Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, In view of the fact that you have not agreed to speak here in this debate, I would also like to ask you to support the proposal as well. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2016-10-10-314	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, The decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of today's agenda. It is now time for the speeches after the agenda. After the agenda, Mr Zoltán Magyar, Member of the Jobbik Group, applied for a speech with a title on the difficulties of agricultural education. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2016-10-10-315	Thank you for the opportunity, Mr. President. Dear House, Fellow Members! You must have noticed that the Jobbik faction has focused on education today, and most of our speeches have sought to explore and offer solutions to problems related to domestic education. So I would also like to use the opportunity after the agenda to focus on my own area of expertise, agricultural education, and to draw attention to a number of things, to bigger or smaller problems. I'm trying to put it constructively. Here, political gain is clearly not the aim of Jobbik, but of drawing attention to these areas, offering the government the opportunity to act and solve these problems. I would like to start with the fact that it is obviously well-known that this should not be described for a long time, that the natural characteristics of our country are particularly good for most sectors of agriculture, although it is also a sad fact that the concentration of land and aid has not increased our competitive advantage in this area. Unfortunately, there is also a drastic decline in the conservation power of the countryside. This is something that my fellow Member, Mr Ander, will commemorate in his series of speeches after the agenda, so I do not need to mention it here either. But to what do we owe it? Among other things, agricultural vocational training is far from receiving enough attention from the state. There are fewer and fewer students, and as a result, fewer and fewer good professionals emerge from the institutions. It is important to stress that, by the way, some small steps on the part of the government could significantly improve this situation. I am not referring to the gold-cheated host courses, which, of course, have a role to play, but we remember very well what news this course has come up in connection with ground-privatisation. So you can't replace vocational training in any way. The problem indicated by several directors is that, in the case of institutions subject to the agricultural portfolio, when the institution, let us say, generates revenue, and this can be a significant revenue for their own school, the entire amount is used by the Ministry for maintenance costs, and thus the institution itself has no advantage, neither for investment, maintenance or maintenance, so that they have no additional opportunity. I said this at the Committee on Culture earlier, as one of my submissions wanted to remedy this, which was registered with my fellow Member Dóra Dúró and Sebestyén Vágó, in which we wanted to ensure that at least 25 per cent of the amount received from farming could be decided freely by the institution itself. It also justifies this change, in our view, that, in addition to the quality of agricultural education, the good teaching staff and institutional skills, we believe that the 21st century is unimaginable. presentation of centuries-old technologies, without awareness of them. These often require a level of investment by the institutions, which must be accompanied by additional resources. In this way, it is easy to see that many of the tens of millions of HUF machines, tools and technology would already pay off in the medium term, but, let's say, in the way we outlined, this should be paid to the institution. So we look forward to seeing whether progress can be expected, whether the Ministry of Agriculture will take over the practice of other ministries, and whether it is willing to reverse at least part of the revenue generated in this form to the institution. We also need to mention a few points about higher education. Here we have talked a lot about serious funding problems, and the various harmful effects of the Bologna process on agricultural higher education are also worth mentioning. It is a very big challenge for higher education institutions to have practice orientation only in words, but in practice there is little chance of getting acquainted with the already mentioned XXI. With centuries of technology for students coming here. The outflow of young teachers from the sector is a major problem, by the way. Today's data came from a small rural institution: only 7-8 talented young educators, PhD students, assistant professors, adjutant, have given up in the last year, and the same news has come to me about the other faculties, which, in addition to all other problems, also anticipates the dilution of the teaching structure. I've had a lot of similar problems. Here, too, I would like to draw the government's attention to much more in this area after this agenda, because without it there will be no quality agriculture in Hungary. Thank you for the opportunity. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2016-10-10-316	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Member Mr Ander Balázs, Jobbik Group also applied for an after-the-meeting address when boarding with the title of the last safe house. I'll give you the floor in five-minute time frame.
u2016-10-10-317	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, A few hours ago, in the form of an oral question about integration on the Gypsy route, I raised the question of boarding schools, which was completely twisted from the pro-government side, and they wanted to make it look like an extreme thing from a devil in the answer. [[20.30]] It's not like that at all. I would just like to give you a few examples of the fact that boarding schools do exist. Think of the best boarding school in the world, in the middle of the Swiss Alps, in fact set up a private school called Aiglon away from all settlements, where the annual tuition fee is about HUF 25 million. Students from 60 countries around the world are expected here between the ages of 9 and 18 years old, and discipline is certainly emphasized in education and education. Or there is India's most famous private school, Bishop Cotton School, a 155-year-old school in Shimla, India, where the annual tuition fee is equivalent to HUF 1.2 million. Horribile dictu: the morning alarm is at half past six, it is mandatory to make bed for students, and discipline, order, is considered a very important goal here as well. Or I could talk about the mission of the Franciscans in Transylvania. Since 1993, about 5,000 children have been admitted by the Saint Francis Foundation of Déva under the leadership of Csaba Böjte. At present, more than 2,000 children are taken care of, cared for, and protected in 82 settlements. But I could also mention the Gandhi High School in Pécs, where 85 percent of the students are college students, and after graduation, about half of the students here continue to study in higher education. We have to admit that if they weren't given the opportunity to learn in this form, they would fall from these opportunities. The question should also be asked what is the situation if the family background is inadequate, there is no proper family socialization. Obviously, the state must do everything in its power to correct this. Jobs must be created, properly prepared educators must be placed in the school, and they should be paid. Or we could be thinking about the school system, which the government now wishes or is about to write out by removing lifesaving resources from many, very well - functioning schools. However, it should also be mentioned that there is a level when all this is already limited. There are few such state interventions and corrections, at least at this level, when parents are at an antisocial level and pass these samples on to their children, when their desire to put themselves in the culture of outsiders is actually a form of hostile tribal mentality when it is necessary to intervene in a more serious form. Such a place is the Zita Special Children's Home in Kaposvár. It was created in their biological family or even in the child protection system for young people who have mastered behavioral patterns, which are in fact opposed to the values of society or the majority culture, or, let's say, the school, and they dared to write it here in their founding documents. The problem is that this school, this institution must provide solutions to young people with such difficult problems in three counties, the counties of Somogy, Tolna and Baranya, and it has only 32 seats. So it must be said that too little, and too late, are these young people, according to the teachers working there; at the age of 14-15-16, these children have little to start with. Why is this place so small? According to a report for the Education Office in 2014, there are over 8,000 private students in Hungary. More than 10 percent of these private students are such, so almost a thousand students who have been expelled from school because of behavioral problems. In many cases, it is precisely because the parent is a partner in this and sees the teacher as an enemy, or he himself says that he cannot deal with his own child. Only in the event that the teaching of 23 others in one class becomes impossible because of three children, I think the question of where the other students' rights are is entirely legitimate. Whoever destroys the normal schedule, who destroys normal work and endangers the development of others must be removed, otherwise spontaneous segregation comes, which, unfortunately, we can experience in many cases in Hungary. It is obvious, by the way, that boarding school is a very resource-intensive thing, it cannot be a mass institution, because then the effect of being a man of the flies is unleashed. It is not our goal, nor our goal, to create some kind of prostitute or criminal trainer in this form. The other question is, where would there be a source? Ladies and gentlemen of the government, we should not steal the integration money. That's all. Thank you for your attention. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2016-10-10-318	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speeches after the agenda. Thank you for your work. Parliament will resume its session at 9 a.m. Meeting day's closed. Good night. [[Meeting ended at 20:34 p.m.]]
