u2016-08-22-0	[[The people in this room stand up and greet the voters' community. When the chairman of the meeting takes his seat, the people in the room will sit down.]] Good morning. Ladies and gentlemen, I warmly welcome all of you and welcome all of you who are monitoring our meeting today from within the House or from outside the House. The Second Summer Special Meeting of the Parliament is hereby opened. I would like to inform you that, in the chair of this meeting, Lajos Szűcs and Dezső Reliable notary will be of assistance to me. We now have speeches before the agenda. Mr Bernadett Szél applied for a speech before the LMP Group entitled "Do not make a difference" between Hungarian and Hungarian. Here you go, Congresswoman.
u2016-08-22-1	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear empty pro-government lines! We are all aware of the significance of today. The only difference between the opposition and the ruling parties is that the representatives of Fidesz and KDNP did not come here because they know the stakes. The stakes are whether the Hungarian Parliament will put an end to the fact that the electoral system virtually divides the political community of the nation. And the fact that the governing parties did not come today proves that the governing parties, Fidesz and KDNP want to distinguish between Hungarian and Hungarian people. The position of LMP is very clear: there should be no difference between Hungarian and Hungarian. However, Fidesz has developed and apparently kept alive an election system that goes against this principle in its entirety. And when we draw attention to it and say that all this is unacceptable, and we intend to use our democratic powers to eliminate this situation, you, honourable parties of government, prevent the Hungarian Parliament from carrying out its work. I stress that the fact that the governing parties boycott today's parliamentary session means that the Fidesz and the KDNP Members are not fulfilling the mandate they have received from the voters, because you, my honourable pro-government colleagues, are practically failing to represent the interests of the Hungarian people who have gone abroad - we are doing so. Then how dare you campaign that you will represent 15 million Hungarians? ! This promise, like many others, was also a lie. You have to see, this almost two thirds of almost empty horseshoes proves that Fidesz has decided to distinguish between Hungarian and Hungarian, ignoring everything that it has been talking about for many years, and on which it has obtained the support of many, many people within and outside the borders of Hungary. We can certainly learn three things from today's boycott of the governing parties. On the one hand, that Fidesz and KDNP refuse to represent Hungarian citizens who have gone abroad; on the other hand, that the government is not willing to equal the right to vote; and, on the third, that the governing parties have demonstrated with this exactly today's boycotting that the referendum is a power technique trick for them. It is not, therefore, that the government side is really interested in the views of the people on the issue that you have put on the paper. This referendum was initiated by you. Then why are you not interested in the opinion of hundreds of thousands of Hungarians on this issue? If you were serious about the referendum, you would allow all Hungarians to have equal voting rights. Dear Parliament, Anyone who wants to vote should come home - that was what the Fidesz Group leader said about the fact that the electoral rules today do not equal the standards for people with Hungarian citizenship. If you leave this country, you live abroad, you study, you work, Fidesz says you're worth it. Exactly how much? About nothing from the point of view of your civil rights. That's what Fidesz thinks. It should be seen that Fidesz and KDNP have practically managed to introduce double standards in Hungary in terms of voting rights due to their net power technical considerations. But this isn't just about voting rights, by the way. It wasn't just that Fidesz took over and completely arbitraryly divided the political community of the nation. What stands in the background here is practically the fate of the hundreds of thousands of Hungarian compatriots who now, most of the time, are not forced to live in Hungary. They are the students, students and teachers who fled the centralized and ravaged education system. They are the doctors and nurses who have been hindered by Hungarian health care in ruins and who have been deprived of their vocations by you, dear Fidesz and KDNP, in your own country. They left because they wanted to heal and make a living for their families. I am talking about engineers, IT experts, skilled factory workers, professionals who are masters of their profession, but those who have never been appreciated by this government have just begun to talk about them, that they have seen the economy collapsing around, without them; entrepreneurs who have not been searching for offshore tax havens, like minions around the government, but just looking for where they can exploit their talents. The majority of these people are in this situation because the government has not done its job properly. The LMP is committed to building a country from which no one has to leave under duress. The government failed in that. Unfortunately, after today's boycott, many may feel disappointed in the Fidesz again. One thing is certain: the LMP stands by its principles and we will make sure that no one is forced to leave Hungary and that there is no difference between Hungarian and Hungarian people.
u2016-08-22-2	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. On behalf of the Government, Mr Pál Völner, State Secretary, responds. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2016-08-22-3	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and He began his speech with Boykot. As far as I can tell, 60 percent of the LMP is boycotting today's session. [[Dr. Wind Bernadett: And what percentage is that at Fidesz?]] So let us be a little careful with the words, and perhaps we should address the technical issues that were really addressed by the question itself. [[Dr. Wind Bernadett: Do you have the quorum?]] Speaking of regulation itself as a basic issue: Hungarian legislation, for example, follows the Finnish pattern within the EU. [[Dr. Wind Bernadett intervenes.]] I've heard it, Congresswoman. [[Dr. Wind Bernadett: Only I didn't lie. Interjection in the ranks of Jobbik, and he did not put his hand in his pocket.]] So you're following the Finnish pattern. That Finland would not be a democracy and that they would not have the right to vote, such attacks have not yet been met in the press or in professional institutions. The regulation itself is not the regulation of Fidesz, it is the same as the previous regulation. So if there's such a great anti-democratic deficit would be in this matter, then I believe that this could have been discussed earlier, and not here in the middle of the summer in political performance, as in the last case, when not even the rapporteur was present in the Chamber on the part of the opposition - it is very difficult to discuss the agenda. Now, thank God, we don't have to deal with this problem. The current legislation creates a clear, transparent system, so it does not allow some to abuse false statements at the time of the election. We remember from certain periods of Hungarian history - although some parties may be from the opposition with nostalgia - when they tried - and successfully - to machine the election results with so-called blue tag elections or even by mobilizing the dead. This regulation excludes this. [[Dr. László Kács: Get your hands out of your pocket, Pali!]] The Hungarian Constitutional Court in April of this year is 3086/2016. It dealt with this issue in its decision and concluded that the legislation which you are objecting to does not restrict the right to vote. This is a technical procedural rule, which, as I mentioned, has serious reasons for transparency by exercising its right to vote or returning home at foreign representations. I would point out that there are examples in Europe where the voter may not only be able to return home, but also have to return home, because he may be fined if he does not vote on that day. Compared to this, I think there is a much more humane regulation in Hungary, and it rests on an objective aspect of the place of residence, which the person concerned can himself make with a statement in the district office or even at foreign representations, change, and from that point on, ask to be added to the list of voters in the letter. So this technical opportunity is still available. The Constitutional Court also pointed out in its decision that the decision of the European Court of Human Rights in the case of Vámos and its associate v. Hungary was not acceptable to the request in which the European Convention on Human Rights infringed the possibility of voting in the letter. Thus, a decision in Strasbourg confirms that Hungarian legislation does not violate any fundamental rights. It should also be pointed out that, when the regulation itself was adopted, the European Council's advisory body on constitutional issues, the Venice Commission, dealt with this issue and concluded that this is a point that falls within the discretion of the State. This happened in 2011, so not so long ago. [[9.10]] The Venice Commission has concluded that it is not a basic electoral principle, it is not a general electoral principle, when such a technical issue is regulated, but a matter falling within the competence of the Member States. [[Intercom from Jobbik's benches.]] As I said, if one person does stick to that right, then this title change option opens up to him. Allow citizens to decide, first and foremost, in what form they want to exercise this right. It can therefore be concluded that this is a matter of organisation, the regulation of which is not disproportionate in order to preserve the purity of the election as a whole. I would point out that this is indeed a two-thirds question. In recent years, this issue could have been raised several times in five-party negotiations, or even in parliamentary committees, and should not have been raised on an ad hoc basis by rushing from the beach. [[Intercoms from Jobbik's benches.]] The other is that we are also talking about an issue on the part of the opposition, which we also consider to be unjustified because it is so sudden to make such an amendment, we believe, [[Dr. Tamás Bellozó: Unfortunately, time is up. We'd love to hear the president ring the bell.]] is not transparent. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2016-08-22-4	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Mr László Szakács, from the MSZP Group, also applied for a pre-meeting address with the title "Privacy, public speaking, responsibility." I give you the floor. Here you go, Congressman.
u2016-08-22-5	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Fidesz and KDNP fractions, which are not present, which make it impossible to hold a parliamentary meeting today! The position of the Hungarian Socialist Party on this issue has been straight-line and very, very consistent, because we have always said the same thing since the adoption of the single-party electoral law. Since then, we say that there is no distinction between a voter and a voter, no distinction can be made between a vote and a vote; and one party cannot, at your convenience, be made more difficult for infinitely, and the other one is made easier for infinitely to cast his vote, to exercise his suffrage. Today is a good day for us to see who's the distance between his ears and his brain. In fact, it is still questionable how the Fidesz and the KDNP doubles stand; we are not likely to find out today, but that is not the biggest problem today. I think the pro-government speakers should be preparing for a magic trick today. [[Deterioration from the benches of the MSZP.]] We could also say, like Rodolfo: "Beware, for I am a cheater!" I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm [[Bangóné Borbély Ildikó: That is often!]] You will say that the opposition wants to make the referendum impossible. They're gonna use this... [[János Halász: Have you read...]] Yeah, we read the paper. They will argue with this that we want to make this referendum initiative impossible, and you cannot do so in a credible way. [[Intercoms from the benches of the MSZP.]] Where were you on February 23, this year, when the Hungarian Socialist Party entered the NVI with a referendum initiative, because we wanted to cancel the closing hours on Sunday, and the NVI was full of bald people? Where were you then? ! [[Dr. Pál Völner: We weren't there! To intervene:]] What didn't they do about it? ! [[Dr. Laszlo Varga: This is no joke!]] In a matter of days, we found out about the personal interactions. What have you done? Did they file a complaint? [[Ildikó Bangóné Borbély: Ah!]] Did they raise their word? Did you at least get an internal investigation into the Pálffy Ilona who sent the police to take care of it? No! Ilona Pálffy told me live that she sent the police because she didn't want police action there. [[Interviews from the benches of the MSZP: That's right! Shame!]] Is that possible? Is that how it works, Mr. Secretary? I'm glad you're here from the Justice Department. You're gonna send him away so the cop doesn't take care of it? ! Mr. Secretary. It's a very, very bad offer, it's a very, very bad message. And what have you done? I'll tell you exactly, I can sum it up: nothing! They lay low in the weeds until Viktor Orbán came home, then closed his eyebrows, and you felt sorry for him, and that's all that happened. Well, you don't protect the most important institution of popular democracy, the referendum, from us. You have nothing to fear from us. Only everyone should have the same voting rights; they can do it just as easily! Do you want to protect Hungary and Europe? Well, you couldn't protect the entrance to the N.T.A.L. and the lobby. [[Deterioration from the benches of the MSZP.]] There was a bunch of bald guys, and you didn't do anything. [[Bangóné Borbély Ildikó: Because they sent...]] It's probably because you didn't want it, and you don't have any intention of it. You do not offer to exercise democratic rights in Hungary. Do you know what you're offering? Bald guys and slogans and fear. [[Interview from the benches of MSZP: That's right!]] A lot of fear. This does not make Hungary strong. This does not make Europe strong. You will not make Hungary strong. Do you know who makes Hungary strong? From those who, despite seeing all the wrong and wrong decisions in your corruption, are still working for this country in health care, education, factories, public administration. Even when they see that it is not up to them today to decide how successful they are, how hard they are, how smart they are, how brave they are, but who their dear guide's index finger points to. And they grow out of the ground Butchers, Speders, Simicskas, Garanchik, Andy Vajnák - this is what the Hungarians see, and yet they stay and work here. They are working because they are European and want to stay in Europe. We represent them, and it is in their interest that we stay in Europe. That is why we say that those who stay at home stay in Europe. Thank you so much for your attention.
u2016-08-22-6	Thank you very much, Congressman. On behalf of the Government, Mr Csaba Dömötör, State Secretary, responds to what has been said. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2016-08-22-7	[[Interviews from the benches of the MSZP: Sit down! Dr. László Kács: Couldn't you have been a more serious person to respond to?]] I've listened to you, and I'm asking you to do the same to us. [[The president's ringing the bell. Dr. László Kács: We are not obliged to do anything!]] You spoke of two referendums in your speech. [[Dr. László Varga: Let's hear what you're saying...]] One was about Sunday's opening hours. It is clear that the MSZP was not really interested in opening hours on Sunday, it was not about working on Sundays, it was about political hysteria. [[Intercoms from the benches of the MSZP.]] This can also be seen from the fact that they continued to collect signatures after the case had ceased to exist because the government withdrew the initiative and the law. [[Ildikó Bangóné Borbély: Oh! Dr. Zsolt Legány: You got the point. Zoltán Grimlock: He just said he'll be back. What'd you take back?]] As far as the other referendum is concerned, because that is more important, because we have heard two speeches here from the opposition, and I think that there is little mention of the real stake in the referendum. [[Dr. László Kács: Have you read the newspaper? Z. Carpathian Daniel: Shame!]] You gave the address of your speech to the public, to be responsible, if I recall correctly. With regard to responsibility, I think that the MSZP has a lot to do. On 2 October, there will be a referendum that will determine the fate of not only Hungary but perhaps also Europe for decades. [[Interviews from the benches of the MSZP: Lies! Don't lie to me.]] We must decide whether they can determine who we live with outside Hungary. [[Bangóné Borbély Ildikó: Not with you!]] What does the MSZP do? Undeigned to the Democratic Party, the Hungarians are asked not to leave, not to express their views. [[Zoltán Grimlock: You stopped him! How much better?]] It's hard to deal with that, Congressman. It is difficult because it is not about parties, but about the future of Hungary. The stakes are too high. Although the majority of immigrants are victims, [[Interviews from the benches of the MSZP, among others: It is about lives!]] Hungary should not be obliged to take part in immigration. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] assume all social, economic and security risks. It is a risk we cannot and cannot take. If the MSZP really cares about responsibility [[What about Rogan's bonds? 15,000, 16,000...]] Then he does not ask voters to stay away, and he gives a clear, honest answer that he will say yes or no in the referendum. Today is an excellent opportunity for [[Lajos Korózs: The only stupid answer to a stupid question is...]] to clarify this question. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from the benches of the governing parties. Interviews from the benches of the MSZP, including Zoltán Gőgös: What about Rogán?]]
u2016-08-22-8	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Why does the Jobbik-MSZP cooperation want to make the referendum impossible? Mr János Halász, from the Fidesz Group, spoke before the agenda. [[Interviews from the benches of the MSZP, among other things: Let's hear it! Ouch! Zoltán Grimlock: Where is Mengyi? You're taking protection money? It's ringing.]] I would ask my fellow Members to make it possible for them to be given both before and in response to the agenda. Here you go, Deputy Group Leader. [[Dr. Tamás Bellozó intervenes.]]
u2016-08-22-9	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, The Olympics ended in Rio this morning. On behalf of the Fidesz and the Fidesz fraction, I congratulate our athletes, coaches, helpers. We appreciate the sacrifice of the Hungarian Olympic team. [[Applause from the benches of the governing parties.]] [[9.20]] This meeting today is best suited to saying such sentences within these walls. But that's not why we're here. There is a proposal that our opposition fellow Members would like to discuss; let us see how we get here. Firstly, an extraordinary meeting can be held if more than 40 Members initiate it; this can only arise from the opposition side, and only if Jobbik and the MSZP come together. This just happened. [[Mr. Novak intervenes.]] Of course, that's not how it started. Congressman Szávay put forward a proposal at some point in early August, and we held a five-party consultation. And what happened at the five-party meeting? The MSZP did not come and said that Jobbik would make this proposal on the initiative of Fidesz, and the MSZP centre also said that it was the proposal of Mr Savay, who was calculating and uncredited. It'll be ten days, and what happens? The Socialist Members will sign the proposal and initiative of Congressman Savay with their own hands. [[It's an intervention from Jobbik's ranks.]] Well, so much for the truth of the socialists. But we have a proposal ahead of us, let's look at what it is and why we don't support it. We do not support it because we can already see that the referendum on 2 October is impossible, but we also have a substantive and procedural problem with the proposal. Firstly, because they want to amend a law that has already passed the test of the Constitutional Court, which has also passed the test of the Court of Human Rights in Strasbourg [[Interview from the lines of the MSZP: Then it can no longer be modified! It's in the granite!]] which contains the recommendations of the Venice Commission, and therefore the Venice Commission considers this law to be good, and even under this electoral law there was a parliamentary election in Hungary in 2014, on the basis of which we all obtained our seats. So, we're talking about a law that, if we change it, we can only risk disturbing the system, and we don't need that. And what you would like to have is a particular concern in procedural terms, because there is a planned referendum on 2 October when we can vote against the compulsory resettlement of migrants, but when there is already a set date for a referendum, we must not amend a procedural law - it is a disregard for democratic traditions. [[Interviews from the ranks of the MSZP.]] The campaign is already underway, the voters' notice has already begun, and you want to send new notifications, but there's no time for that. If we adopted this law and acted in accordance with your amended law, we would not be able to carry out the referendum on 2 October, and that would bring about an unconstitutional situation, since the President of the Republic has laid down this law. That is why we are saying, and it is true, that this opportunity, which you are asking for, would make it impossible to hold the referendum on 2 October. Of course, I understand that there are people here who want to do this. Members of the MSZP, my fellow socialists, obviously want to do this, because earlier, when we had to fight migration, we had to make laws here in Parliament, they did not support that issue, they did not support the technical border closure, the building of the fence, the use of defence. You are still trying to prevent this referendum from taking place, but it would be simple: as the Secretary of State said, you should finally respond to whether or not you support the compulsory resettlement of migrants, yes or no. They're supposed to answer that, but they didn't do it today. Let's hope this happens sooner or later. The Jobbik's position in favour of the MSZP is particularly interesting, and it seems to me that it is becoming more vague. It is very important that you say that you must go to the referendum and vote against it. That's very good. But please note that this proposal, together with the socialists, makes this referendum impossible. Can the socialists fool you, my dear fellow Members? [[Interjection from the ranks of the MSZP: How weak! That's a team effort, huh?]] Don't let that happen. Listen to this. The position of the LMP is uneven: they have something to clarify, because they said earlier that there was no need for a referendum, and then there was a time when Bernadett Wind said that there was a need to go and vote against. [[Dr. Wind Bernadett: Show me this statement.]] They will clarify this position; now that their group is about to renew 20 percent, see if it will succeed. So we do not support your proposal, because it would make the referendum impossible, and the referendum on 2 October is important, because we can tell Brussels that we are not asking for their mindless migration policy, compulsory resettlement, and we are asking everyone to participate in this referendum and to jointly reject the compulsory resettlement quota. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A rare applause in the ranks of Fidesz.]]
u2016-08-22-10	Thank you very much, Congressman. On behalf of the Government, Mr Csaba Dömötör, State Secretary, responds. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2016-08-22-11	Honourable Congressman, Dear House, Allow me to draw attention to three worrying phenomena in relation to the referendum beyond what the Member has said. One concerns freedom of opinion, the other concerns incentives for electoral participation and the third concerns public information. We have already been shocked by the fact that the Joint Party called on its followers to destroy the government's billboards for referendums. It is unworthy of a parliamentary party, if it can only express itself by ruining itself instead of arguments, although otherwise we would be very curious about the opinion of the Joint, its sincere opinion on the quotas in Brussels, especially because they had previously collected signatures in favour of quotas. I think it would be a fair procedure to give a clear answer to the question of 'yes' or 'no' in the referendum rather than vandalism. Secondly, we cannot go without saying another thing: several people ask Hungarian citizens to cast invalid votes, such as Tibor Szanyi from MSZP, and so does the Hungarian Helsinki Committee. Amazing and incomprehensible [[Zoltán Haughty interrupts.]] if those who are supposed to put citizens' rights on their flag are campaigning for invalid votes [[Zoltán Grimlock: The invalid vote is also a vote!]] Especially if we know that the referendum is one of the fundamental institutions of democracy, one of the most important instruments of expression. All Hungarians also rightly expect them to tell us whether or not they support or not forced resettlement instead of industrial slapping. Finally, there is one more thing: many left-wing politicians and public figures claim that the whole referendum has run out of reasons, since only 1,200 immigrants should be admitted by Hungary. This claim is deliberately misdirected [[Zoltán Pride: Why, how much would you need?]] Hungarian public opinion. Although it was a one-off decision, a case-by-case decision on the admission and resettlement of 1200 immigrants, Hungary attacked this at the European Court of Justice. However, Brussels has proposed, beyond that, that there should be a permanent mandatory relocation mechanism for the future and, most importantly, without a top ceiling. He did so by making it invaluable how many people would arrive in Europe, with a million and a half arriving last year. If this number does not decrease, Hungary should accept up to one segment of immigrants, and the left cannot deny that the European Commission has also made a written proposal for a penalty of HUF 78 million per person for countries that do not accept forced resettlement. [[Dr. Wind Bernadett: But that's not what this is about, it's about the vote.]] I ask you, where can this amount be raised? For this reason, we call on left-wing parties and public actors who attack the referendum not to mislead the public. The referendum on 2 October is not about the parties, but about the future of Hungary; there is too much at stake to risk. If Brussels double-crosses the new quota system, there will be no going back - they will decide who to live with outside Hungary. We can't and can't take that risk. We would like this to be seen by opposition parties, despite their obvious party policy considerations. [[Ildikó Bangóné Borbély intervenes.]] Thank you for your attention. [[A rare applause in the ranks of Fidesz.]]
u2016-08-22-12	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Mr Rubovszky, Member of the KDNP Group, with the title of cheating help, applied for a speech before the agenda. Here you go, Congressman.
u2016-08-22-13	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and Gentlemen, I am in the lucky position that I have been a member of the Hungarian Parliament since the spring of 1994 and I have been or have been a member of the preparatory committee that has dealt with the preparation of the vote, the amendment of the electoral law and electoral procedural law. I would like to say that, to date, we have not been able to bring to this House a proposal with at least two-thirds support. Let's start at the beginning. In 1994, when the Parliament of 94 was established, the government coalition led by the MSZP amended the electoral law in the first session: it changed the municipal electoral law, made it a one-rounder, abolished the threshold of effectiveness and validity. [[9.30]] So he has made an incredible transformation, gave the mayors the opportunity to participate in Parliament, and I would like to stress that then the citizen living abroad or staying abroad could not exercise his voting rights, only if he came home to Hungary, there was no possibility of voting at foreign representations. In 2003, the Constitutional Court's decision to challenge this was issued, and then the agreement and consensus was reached that our citizens abroad could cast their votes at foreign representations. Dear Parliament, With regard to the current plan, a number of arguments have already been made, and I would like to draw attention to two things. I contacted the Christian Democrat delegate of the Election Committee, who informed me that the authors had not consulted the Election Committee. I also contacted the President of the Election Office, who told me that she knew the current draft from the Internet, there are countless loose ends in it, but the Election Office was not contacted by the authors either. So this is a proposal without sufficient preparation, and I would like to refer to the following data. [[Dr. László Kács: But when Fidesz does that, it's okay.]] At the 2014 elections, our citizens - I am talking about 14 people abroad, so ten years after the introduction of the right to vote - 28 000 people have applied for a vote abroad and 25 000 of them have used their voting rights. So I think it's an extremely good ratio, and it's available at the moment. I reject the arguments that we distinguish between Hungarian citizens and Hungarian citizens. Excuse me, when a Hungarian citizen living abroad cannot cast a vote on an individual representative, is that not a difference? ! Hungarian citizens living in Hungary can surrender to abroad and even vote from home if they are abroad. And why should foreigners be granted this right? The situation in the Highlands, I imagine, who opened an office in Dunaszerdahely, is well known [[István Szávay: That's right.]] But let me tell her that she's logged in to the election. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] Highlanders all gave domestic addresses because they dare not even publish their address and dare not go to foreign representations on election day. [[István Szávay: That's why we have to solve the problem.]] It's impossible to do that after such a history. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-08-22-14	Thank you very much, Congressman. Mr Pál Völner, State Secretary, responds to what has been said. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2016-08-22-15	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Honourable Congressman, First of all, I would like to thank you for this small historical overview of the opposition parties' rights to vote and the rules on referendums, and perhaps also for the past action of the MSZP, so that they are the exact ones who blame the current regulation. [[Dr. László Varga: We are to blame again. Finally!]] who did not give Hungarians abroad the right to exercise their voting rights abroad. It can be seen that today is not about a legal issue, but is part of a purely political game, an attempt to make this concrete referendum impossible. They want to undermine the public confidence that exists in the electoral system. [[Dr. László Kács: The bald ones. Oh, no, with Men. Zoltán Grimlock: The Mengyi has just rocked it.]] and call for boycotts and absenteeism on a matter for which they want to make it seem possible for as many people as possible to vote. So it's a crazy logic loop, which I think would be hard to explain to either the press or the simple people. The other issue, which I did not explain in detail in my previous comment, is also one of the problems and we can talk about a practical problem, we all remember the problem of letter voting in relation to the Austrian presidential elections. So when we are talking about the purity of elections being threatened by such an opaque regulation, there is a specific example of it in neighbouring Austria, where the previous election result turned out to be odd, there were many invalid votes, and the Austrian Constitutional Court, even if it didn't specifically say that the election was cheated, calculated with an atypical difference of such a weight that it said that the election had to be repeated. Indeed, this would be a successful attempt if we introduced an extension of the vote in the letter, and there would be a similar scenario in Hungary, which would really make the referendum impossible, but I would ask you to look sometimes further, so take Parliament's work seriously or to maintain the purity of the electoral system... [[Demercation and intervention in the ranks of opposition parties. Dóra Dúró, showing: Why, are you taking this seriously? The president's ringing the bell.]] Obviously, a serious faction cannot give itself to a frivolous initiative; I would say this only in parentheses for yelling. So, technically, when there is a situation where public confidence could be shaken by such an ad hoc suggestion in the electoral system, it would be in your favor, no doubt. So you're really acting as a professional politician, but you're not responsible as a politician, because you're trying to confuse me with a moment's interest. What has also been said in Mr János Halász's words that in the middle of the campaign, we would indeed draw on a problem, and then run to Brussels, Washington, Turkey, who prefer relations to talk about the Hungarian democracy deficit, to change electoral procedures here in the middle of the campaign. So I think you're studying the history of the last twenty or a few years, as Mr. Group Leader has suggested, and look at how difficult and how many conciliation processes it is to succeed in establishing a coherent and truly sustainable regulatory system over a long period of time, and do not try to improvise and create confusion in relation to an ad hoc referendum event. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-08-22-16	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. " Why does the government give up hundreds of thousands of Hungarians? " from the Jobbik Group, Mr Szávay István applied for a speech before the agenda. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2016-08-22-17	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Dear stumped Parliament, About seriousness, Secretary of State Völner, you spoke with your hands in your pocket for five minutes in front of the empty pro-government benches. This is a question, my fellow Members, that if you had wanted to, you could have resolved it several times over the past four years or over the past five years or five years. There was no political will for this on your part, as it seems to be now. Liar and childisher than liars now come up here and we have heard from government representatives and representatives of the government. We also said this in 2014 before the elections, Mr Fisherman's Secretary of State, we did not just come up with two parliamentary resolution proposals to the House, which you voted against, the Hungarian Permanent Conference's closing statement adopted with two consensuss last year and the year before contained the settlement of this issue, which was then voted by the representatives of the governing parties and the government. Now you are trying to put this issue on a purely legal level or with legal arguments to justify why this is okay. They are talking about the Venice Commission, the Constitutional Court, and we have drawn attention primarily to the moral aspect of this: we are talking about unfair discrimination with a rule of law. And the Constitutional Court, by the way, has also stated that not only what you emphasise, but the Constitutional Court has also stated that Parliament has the right and the opportunity to establish additional detailed rules that will make it easier for people living abroad, who are permanently abroad, or to change the conditions for participation in the vote. So there are no such concerns. Congressman Rubovszky, I'm sorry, what was 10 and 20 and 50 years ago - what does that have to do with today's debate? [[9.40]] You can go back up to 50 and 100 years. 20 years ago it was not possible to vote for Hungarians living abroad, 100 years ago it was not possible to vote for women, and 200 years ago there was not even a choice. So that's a pretty frivolous argument, I'm sorry. As regards my address in the Highlands: Member, the Hungarians in the Highlands do not dare to ask for the electoral package at their own postal address because you have been unwilling and unable to solve their problems for six years, because in the last six years, it has always been important for you to have a friendship with Fico and Slovak-Hungarian cooperation, and not to achieve something about the amendment of the Citizenship Act, and still to this day in the Highlands, there is an unethical, discriminatory civil law, which is why Hungarians in the Highlands do not dare to ask for their package of letters to be addressed. Let's look at some arguments. The most important thing is that Jobbik wants to prevent the referendum, and in conjunction with the MSZP, who deceived us or what they were, this was not entirely clear, by the way. Of course, that's not what this is about. [[Dr. Pál Völner: What belongs together grows together!]] We have always had a clear position on this issue, we do not regard the referendum as the best way to resolve this matter, but rather the fact that the prohibition of introduction is enshrined in the Fundamental Law. Obviously, that's not what you want, and obviously you want to use the referendum for political hysteria. This could have been done much simpler and safer. But once there is a referendum, we have made our position clear: Hungary does not need to fit in with people who cannot and do not want to fit in. Of course, we say no to that. There's no time - it's not true! There is time, there is time, there is no political will, Congressmen, for your part. If the basic law of granite and stone could have been amended five times in three days, this could have been resolved in the next month and a half. And there was another very funny argument, and Lajos Kósa said that there was no time to inform the people living abroad. Well, if you don't mind, gentlemen, it is not Hungary that informs people living abroad, but that those who live abroad should indicate that they would like to vote abroad and give a foreign mail address, so that we can resolve the discrimination that, say, a Hungarian from North England, which is the usual example, will have to travel to London, travel for several hours, take a day off, get in line, while his colleague from Transylvania or southern Hungary who lives with him in a household or a sublet can do so simply by letter. This is an unacceptable discrimination, which should be resolved, but you do not wish to do so, but rather say that you should register for Hungary and then you can vote. And that's another amazing argument. Does Hungary want the Hungarian Parliament, the Hungarian government and Hungarian public life to have the aim of removing these Hungarians from Hungary as much as possible? ! Shouldn't we strengthen their bond with Hungary? Most of these Hungarians have left this country because of the disastrous economic policies of your socialist governments and of your pre-eminence. Obviously, you are afraid that, unlike Hungarians across the border, they will obviously identify with the government's policy in a smaller proportion, since our proposal is not only about the referendum, but also about the possibility of participating in the elections. I am very sorry that you boycotted this meeting, that your representatives did not come to Parliament. This proposal could have been voted 'no', but this proposal will be put back in front of the House, and by then you will have to come up with more excuses for not supporting it. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2016-08-22-18	Thank you very much, Congressman. I'll ask who's willing to answer on behalf of the government. Mr. Pál Völner, State Secretary. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2016-08-22-19	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, First of all, I thank the Member for having at least one strong opinion that Jobbik is encouraging voters to go to the referendum and vote against it. That was at least a clear and understandable position. [[Dóra Dúró: We told you a thousand times!]] On the other hand, I could not agree with everything when one of the most experienced Members of Parliament [[Intercoms from MSZ and Jobbik.]] we accuse him of being a liar and childish person; then maybe we should think about it. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] That there are steps in law development that cannot be missed, and that everything should not be thrown out for what happened five years ago, ten years ago or 20 years ago. But you may have to enroll in law school, which my esteemed colleague has done, and as a legally executed person, you might not have to criticize him when he talks about legislation or the application of law. This may require more experience and more depth on these issues. Calling those forums a liar and a child, I think about the Court of Human Rights, the Constitutional Court, the Venice Commission, in your statements, it was an exaggeration. Or just what I have quoted, the decision of the Austrian Constitutional Court, which was also made on this subject, is, I think, a very strong swing compared to what is said here professionally. You're out of passion, strength, mood. [[Dr. László Kács: From Power?! It was the bald ones who were strong!]] try to politicalise rather than raise a professional question, it could be discussed professionally in concrete terms and raised in those committees or those places. So that's all I wanted to say, because the rest is just a rerun, and I wouldn't want to waste your time like you might do for others. Thank you for your attention. [[Gábor Vona: I would like to hear the arguments again! A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2016-08-22-20	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speeches before the agenda. I declare that President János Áder sent a transcript of the State Secretary's discharge from the mandate to the President of the Parliament. I would ask Mr Lajos Szűcs to present the transcript of the President of the Republic.
u2016-08-22-21	Mr László Kövér, President of the Parliament, Budapest. Mr President, I inform the Parliament that Article 9 (4) (j) of the Fundamental Law and central government bodies [[Zoltán Grimlock: Hurry back, for the following will be you!]] and XLIII of 2010 on the status of members of the Government and State Secretarys. Law 55. The mandate of Mr Tamás Köpeczi-Bócz, State Secretary of the Ministry of Human Resources, on the proposal of the Prime Minister [[Zoltán Grimlock: What could have been wrong?]] This Decision shall enter into force on the day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Budapest, 25 July 2016 Sincerely, János Áder.
u2016-08-22-22	Thank you very much, Mr. Notary. Dear Parliament, I would like to inform you that we have received a motion to suspend the immunity of our Fidesz fellow Member, Mengyi Roland, Ksb.1229/2016/17-I. I'm on a case against the Attorney General. The President of the Parliament has issued the motion for examination to the immunity committee. Dear Parliament, I declare that 45 Members have submitted the necessary supporting signatures to the XXXVI of 2012 on the National Assembly. Law 35. In order to facilitate the exercise of the voting rights of citizens resident abroad who are resident in Hungary, the XXXVI of 2013 on the election procedure was initiated by the Parliament to convene an extraordinary meeting. T/11693. for the purpose of the discussion of this proposal. [[9.50]] In order to facilitate the exercise of the voting rights of residents of Hungary residing abroad, the XXXVI of 2013 on the election procedure was initiated by the Parliament to convene an extraordinary meeting. T/11693. for the purpose of the discussion of this proposal. (9.50) I would like to inform the Honourable Parliament that Jobbik's group has initiated the negotiation of the bill by way of a derogation from the House Rules of Procedure. There was no consensus on this at the House Committee meeting, so the Speaker did not present it in the absence of the necessary support. Dear Parliament, We will now decide on a proposal on the agenda put forward under presidential authority... in an entire minute, because it is scheduled at 9:50 p.m. that Parliament will have a quorum from then on. [[Moore in the opposition benches. Interview from the ranks of the MSZP: See if they come in.]] So, with all due respect, I'm gonna ask you [[Interjection from Jobbik's ranks: Hope dies last!]] to take this one minute... [[Intercoms from the ranks of MSZP and Jobbik.]] See, some people are still coming. And here I am returning to Mr Secretary of State's comment that he spoke out that the LMP Group was incomplete, and that the factions will now have to ensure a quorum. [[Interview from the ranks of the MSZP: I've got it!]] I will also inform this House that the two hours do not go together, so the big clock and the official clock that is on our monitor is not exactly the same. It's 9:49 in 59 seconds. I'll establish it's 9:50, the quorum has to be set from here. Dear Parliament, We are now deciding on a proposal on the agenda put forward by the President. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts the recommendation on the agenda. Please vote by raising your hands. [[Vote. Dr. László Varga: Visible majority! Deterioration in opposition benches.]] That would be true, but I also see how many seats there are in there, because the number of cards inserted is 49, so in this sense the Parliament could not accept the proposal. I would also like to announce that Mr Lajos Kósa has by letter initiated a repetition of the vote using a ballot counting machine. [[Intercoms from the ranks of MSZP and Jobbik.]] In accordance with the motion, I now ask the Parliament, with respect, to vote. I'm asking you if you're going to accept the proposal on the agenda put forward by the President. Please vote using the ballot counting machine. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament is unable to reach a decision by 45 votes in favour, 4 votes against and no abstentions. [[Ildikó Bangóné Borbély: Shame!]] Dear Parliament, In the absence of a proposal on the agenda adopted on the basis of the provisions of the Rules of Procedure, no item on the agenda may be discussed. I would like to inform you that the next meeting of the Parliament is expected to take place on 12 September 2016. Thank you all for your presence. The meeting's closed. [[The meeting ended at 9:52 p.m.]]
