u2016-12-08-0	Good afternoon. It's 9:00. We'll start work. The 31st day of the autumn session of the Parliament is hereby opened. I would like to inform you that you will be able to assist me in the chair of this meeting, Mr Lajos Szűcs and Mr Dezső Szűcs. Welcome to our guests and to all those who monitor our work. Dear Parliament, A joint debate on the proposal to amend certain laws on financial and economic matters follows. The government referral is T/13159. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. I would like to inform you that according to the House Rules adopted, 15 minutes for the opening speech, 15 minutes for the legislative committee's speech, 7 minutes for the presentation of the minority opinion, 30-30 minutes for the speakers of the political groups, 8 minutes for the independent Members and 10 minutes for the closing. Dear Parliament, First, I give the floor to Minister for National Economy Mihály Varga, the rapporteur of the item on the agenda, within a 15-minute time frame. Mr. Secretary, please.
u2016-12-08-1	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, A bill will be tabled today that, I think, will build on the results of recent years and anticipate the opportunities of the coming years. In recent years, the Hungarian economy has taken a course that rightly fills all of us with confidence. The Hungarian economy has reached a stable growth path. This growth allowed the economy to be on a stable growth path of between 2 and 3%. The main sources of this increase were industry, manufacturing and agriculture. The performance of the service sectors has also been excellent in recent years. If we look at the development of investment in this area, the Hungarian economy came out of the economic crisis it came into after the 2008 global economic crisis. The performance of the foreign economy, the export performance, is a strong source of confidence. If we look only at the data of the 9-10 months that have already been available this year, then we can see that the Hungarian economy is also on a growth path from the export side, because while our export performance has increased by more than 4 per cent, imports have only increased by 3.9 per cent, i.e. the Hungarian economy and the Hungarian foreign trade are on an additional track. This means that until the end of September there was a surplus of around EUR 7.7 billion of Hungarian foreign trade. If we look at the indicators of public finances, this also shows that this growth is stable and has created a consolidation of public finances at the same time, because, while we have achieved a very large deficit rate in previous years, and which has been sanctioned by the European Union, we have not been able to meet the necessary and required conditions and requirements, as a result of which Hungary has been subject to excessive deficit procedures, in recent years we have now reached a stable deficit rate of less than 3 percent. Last year it was only 1.6 percent. We have good reason to believe that there will be a deficit level of around 2 percent this year as well, and that the level of public debt has also decreased step by step, since, while this was 83% of gross domestic product in May 2010, this level has fallen to 74,6 percent at the end of last year. I must add that, of course, the expansion of the economy has brought about an increase in the number of jobs. Jobs have increased significantly, with 695 thousand more working in the country today than six years ago. The unemployment rate fell from almost 12 per cent earlier - 11.8 per cent in 2010 - below 5 per cent, which means that according to recent statistical official data, 4.7 per cent was the number of unemployed. So we are approaching the limit where it is possible to talk about full employment, the level at which - yes, and we can see this - in some sectors of the economy, temporary labour shortages and not labour surpluses are becoming increasingly characteristic. So it is a happy news that the government's aim is to reduce the level of debt at the same time, while at the same time increasing the number of jobs in the country, has been achieved and much more people are working in Hungary today than a few years ago. This level of employment was also associated with an increase in actions. Year after year, real earnings have increased significantly. This year - we have data at the end of September - net real earnings have increased by 7.6 percent without any particular government support measures, which means that the expansion of the economy has accompanied the increase in wages that we all expect, because it makes sense for our economic steps and actions to be able to plan the future more safely and more stablely, and that as the actions grow, people can also live better; so everyone can take a small step forward, and everyone can see that economic growth is not an end in itself, it is not for us to enjoy macro numbers, but for us to be able to plan the future more safely, more stablely, and for people to have the opportunity to save or increase their consumption. This is how we come to the dividing line, the presentation of which is one of the logical steps of the current bill. This electoral line is based on whether and whether the further growth of the Hungarian economy can and should be based on cheap wages. If we look at the figures, we can see that, while the performance of the Hungarian economy is roughly two thirds of the European Union's average, either per capita or in aggregate, the wages have only increased to a much more modest extent in recent years. The level of income is approximately 35-40 percent of the EU average. So we say that the Hungarian economy has the potential and the opportunity to look ahead a little longer. There is a possibility that wages will be caught up at a faster pace and increased at a faster rate. Of course, all these must go hand in hand with ensuring that the efficiency and performance of the economy is not reduced as far as possible. So we need to see that, while wages will rise faster, we have seen that this year, too, nearly 8 percent real wage growth has been achieved, while innovation, education development, increasing the value added chain, increasing the cost of education, so that investment in human capital, investment and performance are closely linked. This is the starting point for the government to negotiate with the social partners that should be agreed at the end of each year on a regular basis on wage changes in the coming years. Not primarily for the government - let me add - the government is simply moderating this negotiation - employers and workers must agree on the growth of these wages. If and if this does not happen, then obviously the government will enter here and try to influence events in a sense that an agreement is reached. Now I have to say to you that we have been able to take a very important step, because we have sat down this year in these negotiations knowing the good and stable position of the economy, knowing the consolidated and safe foundations of public finances, we have said that a longer-looking framework agreement of at least six years has been reached, and that this framework agreement should also include not only negotiating wages, but also dealing with efficiency, productivity, or what we are now calling competitiveness in a fashionable way, in this area as well. [[9.10]] The agreement that we have been able to conclude with our partners is therefore historic, since we have not only been able to agree on wages, but we have also been able to agree on measures to increase efficiency and competitiveness that have not taken place in the last 26 years. We have concluded a six-year wage agreement, and in this six-year wage agreement, I must say that it is a curiosity that we have not only agreed on the next year, but on the period until 2022. One more thing I have to say is that the social partners have been able to overcome the tiny little one's own interests, and they have felt that there is now a historical opportunity, in the context of the stable, more predictable conditions of the world economy or of the European economy, to bring this agreement to an end. So everyone has accepted the framework of this agreement. I know there will be a lot of debate about these today, but it is worth recalling that this agreement was signed by the Democratic League of Independent Trade Unions, the Hungarian Trade Union Association, the National Association of Workers' Councils as permanent employees of the Competitiveness Consultation Forum. From the employer's side, it was signed by the National Association of General Consumer Associations and Trade Associations, the National Association of Employers and Industrialists and the National Association of Entrepreneurs and Employers. So all social partners supported the conclusion of this agreement. That is why, of course, it is possible to say that this should be changed here, and this should be changed there; but I have to say that we have reached a good compromise with our partners, and this has been supported either on the employer's side or on the employee's side. In fact, it was supplemented by signatories who took part in this consultation with the right of discussion. This agreement was signed by the Hungarian Chamber of Commerce and Industry, the National Association of Strategic and Public Service Associations, the Cooperation Forum of Trade Unions and representatives of the Association of Intellectual Trade Unions. What is this agreement about? Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, It's about keeping priorities. After all, priorities include the fact that value-making work must be the result of decent wages and decent income for workers in order to regenerate their workforce, human capital from day to day. That is why we agreed to reduce employers' public burdens significantly in several sets of steps, including several steps, over the next six years. The first part of this, which lies before you and is awaiting adoption, concerns the level of corporate tax and the level of employer contributions. What exactly is in this agreement? We're reducing the level of corporate tax to a uniform rate of 9%. This means that the previous rates of 19 and 10 per cent will fall to 9 per cent. So whether it is a small business or a medium-sized enterprise or a large enterprise, everyone is better placed by this tax reduction. We, as we said in 2010, this government is the government of tax reductions. We want to reduce taxes, we want to reduce burdens to make it easier for us to take on jobs, and we want income to be more than people. Here, I would like to stress that this key reduction will leave some HUF 30 billion in the small and medium-sized business community, obviously more in the large business community. But they are the ones who make the bulk of the tax payments, and this, I think, is in proportion to what we expected from this step. This will help everyone, and at the same time we will significantly reduce the contribution rates. The government has undertaken to submit it to Parliament and proposes to accept that the level of employer contributions for the following year should be reduced from 27 per cent to 22 per cent, and then reduced from 22 per cent to 20 per cent for 2018. Here, the government has also committed that if a higher gross wage increase is achieved in 2017, we will initiate an amendment and reduce the level of the employer's contribution by another half a percentage point, i.e. up to 19.5 percent. I think that this is going to be a very serious, very significant change, because this reduction in the burden of contributions was an old request either for small entrepreneurs or for medium-sized or large entrepreneurs. This will significantly help to enable the income that remains and remains to be spent either on wage increases, wage increases, the retention of better workers, skilled workers or additional investment and development. As a further step, the level of the employer's contribution will decrease by 2-2 percentage points annually from 2019. Therefore, if the increase in demand exceeds a level of 6 per cent, the government has undertaken to further decrease the level of the contribution by 8 percentage points in total over these years, reducing 2-2 percentage points each year. By doing so, Hungary will achieve a very serious reduction in the tax burden and contribution burden. In addition, both the employer's side and the government's side have undertaken to increase wages. Let's just say a few more words about that. The minimum wage level will increase by 15 percent next year and 8 percent thereafter in 2018. The so-called minimum wage or the minimum wage for skilled workers will increase by 25 percent next year and by an additional 12 percent in 2018. These wage measures and wage increases create the possibility of achieving, indeed, some 40% real earnings growth in Hungary over the next six years. I must stress once again that both employees and employers have accepted this agreement. They also see a good chance and hope, together with the government, that this wage increase, this wage increase, will be achieved, and this should not be accompanied by a deterioration of efficiency and competitiveness. Ladies and gentlemen, The bill also includes further amendments and minor amendments. I do not wish to mention these now in the absence of time. I ask you to support this agreement, this six-year wage agreement, because it has been concluded at the end of a very serious series of negotiations. All social partners support it. I trust that you, as Members of Parliament, will also contribute to this. Thank you for your attention. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2016-12-08-2	Thank you very much, Minister. Dear Parliament, First, the position of the Legislative Committee and the formulated minority opinion will be presented in a 15-minute time frame. First, I give the floor to Congressman Vas Imre, rapporteur of the committee. You have eight minutes, please.
u2016-12-08-3	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, I would like to inform the Parliament that, under the derogation from the adopted house rules, yesterday the Legislative Committee discussed the amendment of certain laws on financial and economic matters T/13159. The Commission submitted a legislative proposal and a proposal for amendment and a report with 25 yeses, 7 nos, without abstentions. The summarised amendment contains the pro-government proposals of the Legislative Committee marked with point 1 and a significant part of the also pro-government proposals marked with point 2. These include, on the one hand, text-focusing, technical amendments and, on the other hand, substantive amendments. I would first like to say that none of the background material was supported by the Legislative Committee. I would like to focus here on the amendments tabled by the MSZP. On the basis of the proposed amendments, the MSZP disagrees with the reduction of the corporate income tax - two-key, 19- and 10-percent corporate income tax - to 9 per cent, and did not agree to reduce the 27 per cent tax on wages to 22 per cent next year and 20 per cent for the following year. The government representatives didn't really know what to think. The pro-government amendment No 1 was fully supported by the majority and by points 1, 6, 15 and 20 by number 2. The Secretary of State Tállai, present at the committee meeting, responded with satisfaction to the questions raised. In addition to the fact that they did not know what to think why the MSZP did not agree with the amendments, not to say so, but most importantly, it was formulated in the Members that the three tax reduction packages of this year - on the one hand, what we adopted at the end of spring, at the beginning of summer, on the other hand, what we adopted on Tuesday and, on the third, the bill before us - would like to introduce a tax reduction, which, according to my memory, has not yet happened in Hungary. [[9.20]] Even though it was not directly on the subject within the Legislative Committee, the Secretary of State replied to the false news of whether or not pensioners should make tax returns on Elizabeth's vouchers. The Secretary of State reassured the members of the committee that the person who spread this was based on a misinterpretation of taxes and that pensioners do not have to pay taxes or make tax returns before Christmas or even after the Elizabeth vouchers to be received this year. Overall, we believe that the government's move to introduce a tax reduction is to be praised. We are pleased that we have also been able to agree fully on this with our partners. This is to improve the country's competitiveness. I ask my fellow Members to support the adoption of the bill, because it is one of the keys to the country's development. Thank you so much for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-12-08-4	Thank you very much, Congressman. The minority opinion will now be presented within a seven-minute timeframe. I give the floor to Congressman Sándor Burány. Here you go.
u2016-12-08-5	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Minister, Dear House, Allow me to draw attention to three specific circumstances, and then, of course, I will also talk about the amendments in line with what was said at the committee meeting. The first particular circumstance: due to the departure from the house rules, a debate will take place here in this House when we discuss the bill and the amendments tabled to it at the same time. We also supported this derogation from the house rules, in order to ensure that Parliament adopts as soon as possible the tax laws which should apply from 1 January. This does not mean, of course, that we would agree with this law, what is in it. Let me draw attention to the second particular circumstance. Mr Vas, on the one hand, stressed that the majority opinions were not delivered at the committee meeting, but that was obviously what the pro-government representatives were thinking. Well, this is a very specific genre in the Parliament: the majority rapporteur is speaking not at the committee meeting, but at the committee meeting, what the members of the government think is. As I recall, this has not been the case in this House, but it is better to know the thoughts of pro-government representatives later than never, if not at the committee meeting, at least at the plenary session of Parliament. The third particular thing is that my fellow Member, Mr Vas, completely misunderstood the opposition argument and a number of its elements. In this connection, I regret to say that it appears that the PISA survey should be extended not only to students but also to Members of Parliament, and that they should be tested in this House, because my fellow Member, who is a fidesz, is apparently suffering from drafting problems. Then let's do it again, my dear House. Dear Secretary of State, Because I see that there has been an exchange of seats on the government side, Minister Varga has not had the opportunity and arrival to listen to the lead speakers here in the walls of this House; then let me tell Mr Secretary of State - although he was there personally at the committee meeting - and once again my fellow Member Vas what our arguments were. First of all, let me say that this agreement is a coercive agreement. Minister Varga has been given the task of going to the wall by Viktor Orbán. He did so, but it was clear from the statements around the signing that several advocacy organisations would disagree with this agreement in this form and sign this agreement as a coercion. It's like a big folk hurrah surrounding this package, but let's just say there's no such thing. And that is not the case, because the problem with this bill is exactly what some of the advocacy organisations have said to the public, and what was explained yesterday at the committee meeting by opposition representatives, in particular the Socialist Party; namely, although there is no doubt that Fidesz is consistent in one thing, but that the damage in this area is consistent, this consistency is aimed at reducing the burden of either employees or employers, the greatest, the most sought-after, the best-off, and the burden of the worst-off. This agreement also includes this. Dear House, Let's be clear that the corporate tax is currently two-key, 19-and-ten percent. This border stretches at HUF 500 million. At present, 19 percent of those with a tax base of more than HUF 500 million have to pay. Making it a single key means that the government reduces taxes on a few tenths of all businesses, in exchange for a drastic increase in the minimum wage of 15%, and increases the wage burden on small entrepreneurs. The amendments made by the MSZP were aimed at keeping the burden on small businesses from increasing or even reducing as far as possible, thereby achieving what the government's proposal cannot achieve so that workers could earn a net minimum wage of at least HUF 100 thousand. Our proposal would save the largest businesses, from 19% to 9% for multinationals. We consider this to be considered and even supported by the small business community alone. We would leave that 30 billion forints with small entrepreneurs, but in return we would also leave the hundreds of billion forints that the government will release to the largest companies, we would spend on the growth of small businesses and the minimum wage. We have presented a package that, by reducing contributions, allows small businesses to reduce the burden somewhat, but primarily the net amount of the minimum wage reaches HUF 100 thousand and finally exceeds the minimum wage, because the unfortunate situation in Hungary - unlike Western European countries - is that it is impossible to make a living from the minimum wage. We also submitted a proposal to increase the pension by more than 3 per cent. The government's proposal in this area is limited, whether from the situation of pensioners, including pensioners, or from the inflation projections of the Hungarian National Bank. We tabled these motions yesterday at the Legislative Committee meeting. We regret that our pro-government fellow Members have not supported these motions. If the Parliament accepted our proposals, the burden on small businesses would be reduced by allowing the net minimum wage to be increased to HUF 100,000 without the small business operators falling into it. Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, Mr. President. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2016-12-08-6	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, It is now time for the speeches by its representatives. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the factions have 30-30 minutes, and the independent Members have 8 minutes in total. As the first speaker to be announced, I give the floor to Mr Mihály Witzmann, representative of Fidesz. Here you go.
u2016-12-08-7	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, I might as well start by saying that until the day before yesterday, Santa gave children chocolates and gifts, he has added another pleasant surprise to this House, a new tax package in a positive, meaningful and favourable sense. [[9.30]] Well, the word "tax package" obviously sounds strange, it is not a coincidence that when you hear this expression in Hungary, you will start to shudder, because in the past, during the socialist-liberal government, the word tax package has unfortunately become known in Hungary as a kind of synonym of the austerity package. However, there is a huge difference that, as long as during socialist governments this word usually meant a tax increase, this present tax package, if I may use that word, is as pleasant a surprise to tax-paying citizens as the children of the Santa gifts I mentioned earlier in the morning in the window. But if I put it seriously, then indeed, in a word, the essence of this proposal, I could say that the bill before us is about reducing the burden, because it is clear from the amendment that again the tax burden on labour, this time the burden on employers, which I believe is a useful and good direction in any way, is being reduced. In the event of such significant changes in the tax system, I think it is appropriate to briefly summarise, look back and sum up the changes and events in Hungary's tax policy over the past few years. I think we all remember the time when the submission of tax laws automatically caused stomach cramps in Hungarian people, because, as I referred to earlier, it usually meant an increase in burdens. For a few years ago, during the period of socialist governments, we could not imagine, nor dared to think, that any tax reduction would be possible. And if, in rare cases, these or such were to happen, such was the question of VAT, for example, to stay on the ground of objectivity, there was a temporary reduction, but there soon after the elections it was discovered that the socialist government only wanted to use it as a sort of electoral catch, a political trick, or, perhaps, a kind of political honeycombage for the sake of election success. The first thing they did after the vote was to increase the VAT rate again, and to raise it to a higher level than it was before the reduction. The Socialists started the tax increase already in 2003. Corporate tax was raised, medicines and textbooks increased by 5 percent and continued in 2005. The tax relief for families with multiple children has been abolished or reduced. In addition, companies operating in disadvantaged regions have also reduced the rate of corporate tax relief. It is important to stress that these steps have been taken by a government, so to speak, to the left. The standard VAT rate was reduced from 25 per cent to 20 per cent before the 2006 elections, but after the elections the reduced rate of 15% was abolished, so a number of products automatically came into this 20 per cent VAT category. Then, in 2009, the key to normal VAT was added to the top by a further 5% increase. Fortunately, today we are living in different times, because we no longer have to argue about who and how much more their payments are going to be, but about who and how much they can be reduced. Tax cuts mean one thing, namely that the State will remove another burden on taxpayers. From 2010 onwards, the civil government has once again made families the winners of the tax system. Today, it can be said that the state does not punish, but recognises, that the more children they have, the more tax benefits they can receive. Thanks to this family-friendly approach, over the past four years some 800 billion forints remained in the pocket of Hungarian families, 1.1 million people lost their taxes, and more than 300 thousand people did not have to pay taxes at all. Only at the beginning of this year, personal income tax rates decreased from 16 percent to 15 percent. This 1 percent decrease may not seem to be a great number at first sight, but just think, ladies and gentlemen, that this alone has left some HUF 120 billion in the economy or, in other words, in the pockets of the Hungarian people, in the citizens who pay taxes. According to the latest plans, 2017 will bring new tax reductions for both families and businesses. The tax bureaucracy will continue to decline, and we hope that Hungary's competitiveness will continue to increase in proportionality. From January 2017 the tax relief of two children will continue to increase again, the first-wives' discount will be more favourable, the VAT on the most important foods will be reduced, and the NAV will take responsibility for the preparation of the claim. There will also be a number of benefits for small businesses, with a doubling of the amount of income of the kata, eho and taxation of farmers and family farmers will also be more favourable. Investors in support of innovative enterprises may benefit from a discount. In their case, their investment may be reimbursed up to 25%, irrespective of the subsequent profitability of the investment, by reducing the corporate tax liability. I also think it is important to stress that, as a result of the single-key personal income tax and family tax relief, around 460 billion in 2011, 475 billion in 2012, almost 540 billion in 2013, nearly 600 billion in 2014, and around 660 billion forints in 2015 could remain with Hungarian families. The change in the system of the former Saja, the introduction of the so-called single-key personal income tax system, first 16 percent, and then 15 percent in 2016, in six years, if we aggregate the former data, we can see that it left some HUF 3600 billion to the taxpayers. Despite opposition and foreign criticisms, it has also been innovative and successful that the state has sought to correct and balance public finances not only by further taxing people, but also by imposing special taxes on banks and multinationals. In the spirit of this, the civil government decided in 2010 to introduce a special tax on financial institutions on the basis of the principle of mutual responsibility. In addition, it introduced a specific turnover tax on economic operators in the so-called oligopol markets, with the aim of contributing to their economic strength in terms of their share of the common costs of society. Such a specific sectoral tax is, for example, a special health contribution to telecommunications tax, advertising tax, insurance and tobacco companies, which were both born and introduced in the form of fair public burdens. Let us also quote the reduction of VAT on food. This year, the VAT on pig meat decreased from 27 percent to 5 percent, previously for live and half pigs. This resulted in significant results in a short period of time, resulting in a 17-percent reduction in prices, and saved HUF 25 billion for Hungarian families. This is followed by the reduction of the VAT on milk, eggs and poultrymeat from 27 to 5 percent. As a result, we can calculate some HUF 21 billion in milk, HUF 10.5 billion in eggs and HUF 19 billion in poultrymeat. The reduction of the sales tax on restaurant services from 27 to 18 percent in the first year could save some HUF 8.5 billion, according to preliminary estimates. This has not always been the case, my fellow Members. When the MSZP strongly criticises the current tax measures or demands further tax reductions, to put it mildly, I think it is too credible. It is worth remembering, for example, the amok run of food VAT during the eight years of their government. Firstly, from January 2004 onwards, the 12% reduction rate for the majority of foodstuffs was increased to 15 per cent and subsequently increased to 20 per cent from September 2006. From July 2009, this rate was raised from 20 percent to another 25 percent, and it was only a very, very narrow circle, mainly milk and bakery products, that could enter the so-called 18 percent circle. Ladies and gentlemen, The current T/13159 ahead. The aim of the bill is to reduce the tax burden on businesses, thereby improving the competitiveness of the domestic economy and increasing wages in Hungary. The draft for the debate intends to amend 21 laws on 31 pages only. The most important element of this package is to legislate the agreement of the social partners referred to by the Government and the Minister and in his expoze. I do not want to repeat the Minister Mihály Varga, who spoke as rapporteur, but I would like to say briefly that the bill will introduce next year, in accordance with the agreement, a uniform tax rate of 9 per cent and, from 2017 onwards, also reduce the rate of the social contribution tax from the current 27 per cent to 22 per cent and from 2018 to 20 per cent. By the way, if there will be a corresponding increase in wages, as Minister said, there will still be additional benefits in the coming years. With this step, the Hungarian companies will have approximately 145 billion forints in total. It is also important to emphasise that the public burden of individual entrepreneurs can also be reduced. This reduction is expected to affect more than 180,000 individual entrepreneurs. The low tax rate can clearly provide a competitive advantage and a strong attractiveness in the investment decisions of the groups of companies. In addition to the economic recovery effect, we hope that it will also be effective in helping to whiten the economy. [[9.40]] Tax reductions are passed through all tax laws, such as a 9 percent reduction in corporate personal income tax. As a result, more than 1 to 1.5 billion individuals remain in 2017. As with the social contribution tax, the upper rate of the health contribution will decrease, thus reducing the tax burden on each particular benefit. For example, a business gift or such will be a local lease next year, which will no longer be an extra wage benefit in 2017. According to the bill, the benefit fund will increase from HUF 81 300 to HUF 90 000 in the case of catholics, i.e. those who apply the specific taxation of publishing entrepreneurs. In addition, the small company tax is also falling, from 16% to 14 percent. Dear Parliament, Recent macroeconomic figures show that the Hungarian economy grew faster by around 2.2 percent between July and September compared to preliminary data. According to economic experts, this increase can be attributed to the good performance of agriculture, to the nearly 8 percent increase in net wages, to employment growth, to record low unemployment, and to the low inflation environment. The tax and contribution reduction measures outlined above will allow for further substantial acceleration of the economy from 2017. The emergence of the home creation programme, the reduction of employers' taxes and wage increases set out in the truly historic six-year wage agreement in November, as well as the expected increase in the use of EU funds, will significantly support further growth. Finally, I think, ladies and gentlemen, that as a fidesz speaker on the agenda, I can safely say that our political family has always been on the side of tax cuts, because it is clear that since taxes are falling, the economy is growing, employment is increasing, wages are rising. Also, as the Minister has described in detail, we have seen a clear improvement in all macroeconomic indicators since 2010. I would therefore like to ask my fellow Members, if these trends are favourable and desirable, to support the bill regardless of party standing. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2016-12-08-8	Thank you very much. It is now time for Congressman Sándor Burány, the lead speaker of the MSZP. Here you go.
u2016-12-08-9	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, I mentioned the PISA report once as a Commission minority rapporteur. I did not think I would have to mention it again, although it is not an education policy in this House. Well, this PISA report found Hungarian students to be disastrously employed in everyday life. I have just suggested that these competence tests should be extended to Members, as there are obviously problems of interpretation and interpretation of texts here and there. In contrast to the PISA report, the patrons of the Hungarian education system say that in exchange for not being able to put into practice all the things they have learned into practice, they have enormous lexical knowledge, because the Hungarian education system traditionally focuses on lexical knowledge. Listening to the comments of my fellow Member, Mr Witzmann, it seems to me that there is a problem with this second, as his comment, although trying to undertake a serious historical review, was a serious lexical lack of knowledge, which he demonstrated. Allow me, my fellow Member, to complete and correct all that was contained in your historical review, which is roughly like that of a bad student, who is asked at the exam about the German-Roman Emperor and the Hungarian King Sigismund, and starts by saying that he was a great king, but Matthias was an even greater king, and then I would rather talk about it. My fellow Member, I understand that there are topics you like to talk about, but I have seen from your comment that there are topics you like to keep quiet about. Allow me to talk about these, if you have already spent most of your speech with such a historical overview, rather than talking about the bill that has been tabled. First of all, allow me, my fellow Member, to criticise the VAT tax policy of the MSZP governments without mentioning a single word about the fact that the VAT key is now higher than that of any MSZP government, which, to say the least, shows a serious lack of knowledge. Dear fellow Member, Did Jesus bring the 27 percent VAT or did Santa bring the 27 percent VAT, my esteemed fellow Member Witzmann? According to my memory, not the Jesus, not the Santa Claus, but the pro-government representatives, including your votes, became 27 percent VAT in Hungary. [[Mihály Witzmann: Not with mine!]] To judge the tax policy of the MSZP so that, by the way, with your vote, these VAT burdens did not decrease, but they increased, and to present this with an unshakable face, Congressman. [[Mihály Witzmann: Not with mine!]] In a casting session, this would be a great achievement for taking on certain roles. [[Dániel Z. Carpathian intervenes several times.]] But you would have failed to know the historical truth, because at least some self-criticism should have been exercised in this case if you wanted to criticise other people's VAT reduction or VAT increase practices. Once again, to criticise previous practices where, in your time, this tax is not higher than any tax introduced by any previous government and introduced by a parliamentary majority, to say the least, it is insolence, my honourable fellow Member. The other, since I mentioned the loss of memory, forgot to mention that every time Viktor Orbán formed a government, one of his first measures was to tax the minimum wage. Because, no, one of the first measures taken by socialist governments has always been to abolish the minimum wage tax imposed by you. He kind of forgot to talk about it. This was also the case in 2002 when we lifted the high tax burden on the minimum wage introduced by you - unfortunately, after your administration, we will have to start again with this, because in 2010 Viktor Orbán also started his second government by taxing the minimum wage, imposing a 16 per cent tax instead of the previous zero-percent tax on it, including in support of my fellow Member's vote. If you have already talked about families, my honourable fellow Member, it is okay to mention family tax incentives, but if you are talking about families, let us look at the entire system of family support, because the MSZP government was in 2002 which doubled the amount of family allowance, because our philosophy focuses on the fact that every Hungarian child deserves the same support from the government and Parliament, as opposed to your practice, which allows this support to be inflated by the worst-case families, while introducing tax incentives for those who are in the best position and can benefit from this tax reduction. Dear fellow Member, To talk about the system of family support by concealing one of its very important elements and one of its elements, which the MSZP government did not raise a little, but immediately doubled, to say the least, shows a serious lack of historical knowledge. Besides, he also forgot one thing, while praising their own wage-raising practice, which would leave something to be desired between us, that, by the way, the MSZP government started a 50 percent wage-raise programme in the public sector in 2002. You forgot to mention this, while spending quite a lot of time in your keynote speech on the performance of the MSZP governments. Dear House, To say that the Orbán government is the government of tax cuts is simply a baroque exaggeration. And not only because you have taxed the lowest earners, and not only because you have introduced the highest, 27 percent VAT in Europe, but also because you have introduced around 40 new taxes that we have never heard of before. While we were promised that the tax return would fit on a beer mat, we could not count by heart the number and types of new taxes that were introduced under your administration. And by the way, the economic success, my fellow Member, has also been said not to mention serious facts. After 2010, while we gave you governance with a solid economic growth, you immediately produced a recession in 2012. My fellow Member Witzmann somehow forgot to talk about it. I understand that Fidesz does not like to remember how its economic policy has brought this country into recession, and it does not like to talk about it, but it is still a historical fact. It is also a historical fact that the single-key personal income tax and the associated minimum wage increase programme put both small entrepreneurs and taxpayers in such a difficult position that while the purchasing value of minimum wages reached the 2010 level at best last year - last year, my fellow Member, the 2010 rate - while the wages of small entrepreneurs were drastically increased. [[9.50]] As a result, tens of thousands of jobs were lost in the small business community in the competitive sector in 2012-2013. You forgot to talk about these things. I wouldn't have mentioned these, but if we had heard such a historical overview, I thought that we should add to the facts that my fellow Member neglected to mention. But then let us move on to the bill and, as I said, to the amendments made by the MSZP in this regard. Dear House, In the bill submitted, the rate of pension increase will not change for next year. You are talking about different rates of pension increases, but the fact is that in the bill submitted - contrary to your promise of 1.6 percent increase in pensions, I mean, the promise - there is still 0.9 percent, so less than 1 percent submitted. At the committee meeting, Mr Secretary of State said that the government will regulate this in a regulation. To be honest, we couldn't really interpret it there, it's customary to settle it in law, and this is what the MSZP has tried to do, and it has given you the chance at the committee meeting to support the increase in pensions by 3.2 percent in the coming year. Whether we look at the official inflation data and prognosis of the Hungarian National Bank or the situation of pensioners, this 3.2 percent pension increase is more than justified. In addition, the proposals of the MSZP concerned that, contrary to the government's proposal, the net amount of the minimum wage would be higher than HUF 100 thousand, and the guaranteed minimum wage would go further than HUF 126 thousand net. However, contrary to the government's proposals, we want to achieve the net minimum wage of HUF 100,000 and HUF 126 thousand and the guaranteed minimum wage by not putting small entrepreneurs in an impossible position, we have submitted a reduction programme in our amendments that offsets the burden of this, and even in a slightly more favourable situation for small businesses than your proposal, even if the net minimum wage of HUF 100 thousand could be achieved. This, of course, needs a source. If we were to discuss the tax system and the fiscal law at the same time, then all the elements of this could be discussed in this House at the same time. Obviously, then, the room for manoeuvre would also be greater, with a comprehensive tax change, an income and tax change and a concept, to turn their entire policy upside down, namely, not the best-cased businesses, not the best-looking workers, but the small businesses in the worst-case scenario and the worst-cased workers, with these tax policies. The MSZP was forced to adapt to the submitted bill in a sense, so they must wait for this comprehensive proposal until we begin to renegotiate all tax laws comprehensively, in line with the budget bill. Therefore, we have now been able to find only one source of funding for these measures, namely: in the largest entrepreneurial circle, which is less than 1 per cent of businesses, to maintain corporate tax levels. In our proposal, therefore, no one would have a higher tax rate, not even the best-cased businesses - it is true, for them it would not even decrease - small businesses would have a lower corporate tax rate, because there we consider 9 percent to be eligible, but we would introduce a net minimum wage of HUF 100,000 in the country, which would not only not increase, but even slightly reduce the total wage costs of small businesses. Dear House, Ladies and Gentlemen, I would ask you to support the proposals of the MSZP and this concept. Thank you very much.
u2016-12-08-10	Thank you very much, Congressman. Our next announced speaker is the lead speaker of KDNP, Mr János Harghitai. Here you go.
u2016-12-08-11	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Dear Parliament, During the debate on budgetary debates and tax laws, I have expressed my intention at least twice, but it would be good to experience the moment here in Parliament, when we could not only report year after year on the budget macro-numbers, since the Orbán government has been able to justify these beautiful macro-numbers for many years, a growing economy, a persistent public deficit, an increasing number of employees, the growing real wages and so on, I could still say macro numbers. But the man always mattered that we were dissatisfied with the common man's head, because we wanted to make the growing macro numbers possible for the average man, the little man, the working man or the entrepreneur, especially for small entrepreneurs. There have been efforts on the part of the government in recent years, in particular in the area where the government is the owner of the world of wage increases, this is obviously the public sector, raising wages. This has affected teachers - for several years, this process is still taking place -, affected police officers, law enforcement workers, partly military personnel, health care, and others in the public sector. However, it is now possible to take a step that goes far beyond the wage increases in the public sector so far, because in the world of normal workers, the government is creating a breakthrough, and this breakthrough, if we are thinking about raising minimum wage and raising the minimum wage for skilled workers, we can say that this affects at least one million workers. This pushes the pay sign from the bottom so that it will have a tangible effect for years. It is also a performance - and we must acknowledge what Minister Varga said in his expozee - that the government was able to do six years in advance with various interest organisations - we would not have dared to dream of such figures earlier - an agreement on how to change wages and what steps the government can take in terms of competitiveness, in agreement with these advocacy organisations, to improve the country's budget. In addition, we are able to think for six years in advance by breaking off with the practice of the socialist world, where the world of improvisation has always worked, everything has always been done on credit, these wage increases, such as the previous wage increases in the public sector, do not take place on credit, they are covered by the Hungarian economy, the performance of Hungarian people and the performance of Hungarian businesses. This is a huge turn of events, honourable Congressman Burány. You guys were easy back then. I quote Margaret Thatcher again, I may have done it once before: the problem with the socialists is that sooner or later they always run out of other people's money. You have practiced this fiscal policy for decades, managed with other people's money, and eventually ran out, resulting in new loans. The Hungarian economy is still suffering from a real problem today, the huge tax burden we have on us, which we inherited from you. Some of this enormous tax burden has obviously already been produced in the previous era, in the socialist world. This was not fashionable in Central and Eastern Europe, because our competitors ran a much smaller tax burden on the period of system changes - our debt was already in the stars - and, after the change of regime, socialist governments continued the same tax policy, went to international markets and took out loans without necks. They've always lied about the actual reality. The most beautiful example of this is the pre-election period in 2006, when spectacular tax cuts are promised to voters, winning elections with these great promises. Obviously, the government and you knew then that their promises were untenable, and as soon as they came to government, they would do the opposite, and they raised taxes very much. That's when you lost all credibility if you were still in the eyes of the electorate, and that's when you were distracted by the electorate. [[10.00]] Now, then, to lecture us with your economic policy ideas is quite dissonant, and obviously the electorate following us on television will smile at your arguments. Because it is possible to say desires that we want the minimum wage to develop in this way, and we want the figures to evolve in other areas, but a budget is not based on desires, it is based on reality, if we are not to farm on loans, then we always have to adapt to reality. This is what the Orbán government has consistently done, and that is why we have been able to highlight the country from the scope of the excessive deficit procedure in which you have pushed this country, and we have been under this procedure, practically ever since we have been members of the European Union, a few years ago, the Orbán government has taken this country out of its disgrace, and we have now achieved that we have been able to repay the huge debt that you have taken up before the country's economic collapse, after 2008, and we have now repaid this debt. Today, international credit rating agencies recognise the performance of the Hungarian economy, all three significant credit rating agencies have highlighted us from the Bóvl category. [[Sándor Burány: And when did we get into the bovli category?]] With this, I do not think that we are already in the stars, we have a great deal of work ahead of us in order to consolidate the Hungarian economy, but this is the moment, and this bill is about turning the Hungarian economic performance in macro numbers, which has been recognised by international credit rating agencies into small money, so that employees and entrepreneurs can feel something. Turning to minimum wage increases, which is the most beautiful and fierce part of this package, we must record, as the Minister said, that we have concluded a six-year agreement with interest organisations. Of course, Congressman Burány can say that, well, it is a bad agreement, and they didn't really want to sign it, but the fact is that they signed it. Obviously there are responsible people sitting there, these responsible people understand why it is appropriate to bring the wage level in Hungary in this direction, and they obviously did so in the hope that they would be able to make use of these opportunities. In addition, the government will leave part of the cover for the entrepreneurs, but I will deal with this. Let's look at the issue of raising the minimum wage first. Between 2010 and 2016, we have raised the minimum wage by 51 percent, now 111,000 forints, which is increased by 15 percent, 127 500 forints on the basis of the agreement in 2017, and we have good hope that the law will now fix that this will increase by an additional 8 percent in 2018 and reach 138 thousand forints. With the guaranteed minimum wage, i.e. the minimum wage for skilled workers, we were able to increase these wages by 44.1 percent between 2010 and 2016, which will now rise by 25 percent, from 129 thousand forints to 161 thousand forints, and in 2018 we will have an additional 12 percent forints and 185 thousand forints for skilled workers. We hope that the wage bill will obviously increase from the bottom, pushing from the bottom, so the earnings of the higher earners will increase, and the government's expectation that in six years the real earnings will increase by 40% in Hungary is realistic. This is an ambitious number, but the performance of the Hungarian economy and the expectations of the workers, I think, are rightly based on this. An important change that we are making in the law - this has been the subject of many criticisms from the socialist lead speaker, Mr Burány - is to reduce the corporate tax to 9 per cent, leaving 145 billion to entrepreneurs. The argument you have made is that the majority of this will, of course, remain with the larger companies, and this will only affect smaller businesses less, but we can only hope that these larger entrepreneurs will help the country with further investments and additional capital movements that will be reflected in jobs and will make a major contribution to the future growth of Hungarian GDP. So I think it is a result that the government was able to give up 145 billion in the Hungarian budget and leave it with entrepreneurs. With this 9 percent, with this one key - the corporate tax will be one-key - the most sympathetic in Europe, the smallest number will be produced by corporate tax. I hope that the interest in foreign capital will continue to grow in Hungary, and foreign capital will see that it is worth investing in this country, not only because of the small tax rate, but also because there is a government in power that has been pursuing a consistent economic policy for many years now, which has also been recognised by the credit rating agencies, as I said at the beginning of my introduction. Obviously, in order for companies to be able to reach these minimum wages now required by the law, the government will also help these efforts by substantially reducing contributions, employers' contributions by 5 per cent and by an additional 2 per cent in 2018; and if wage increases develop as required by the law, an additional 0.5 per cent contribution may be made in 2018, so that it can be up to 2.5 per cent. Minister Varga also spoke about what is not yet the subject of this law, that every year, in the event of an appropriate evolution of the wage level, contributions may be reduced by another 2 per cent per year, i.e. by an additional 8 per cent in the following four years after 2018. I think that these are such significant reorganizations that these are certainly to be mentioned here. The head speaker of the socialists, when he criticizes the proposed bill, is actually having a good debate with us because he acknowledges that the Hungarian economy is able to implement these tax restructurings. I interpret his sentences as putting the emphasis elsewhere at the most, and they would take the same steps if they were on the government, with a slight shift of emphasis at the most. So I think what is going on between us is basically a good debate, because it is not a debate about austerity, it is not about withdrawal, what the Hungarian economy, the actors of the Hungarian economy, have lived in accordance with their failed economic policy at your time, but it is basically about what the Hungarian economy has produced, how and to what extent we give back to Hungarian workers or to Hungarian small and medium-sized enterprises, or even to larger companies operating in Hungary. This redeployment, which we are doing in terms of tax reductions and raising minimum wages, forces us to make corrections in other tax categories. I would mention that, in the case of Katát, this tax system can be chosen up to HUF 1 million a month, instead of half a million so far, by entrepreneurs, and also by increasing the use of the kiva value limit, up to a total balance sheet total of 1 billion will be able to choose this tax category for growth, hopefully for medium-sized enterprises starting to grow more. I think, Honourable Parliament, that this bill can be supported because it is about results. I note - because this has been criticised earlier, and it may come up - that we are going to touch the tax laws for the third time this year, when we last amended them for the second time, and the socialists criticized the practice that the ink was not even dry on the tax laws, and we are already changing it, and I said that if only we could provide for further facilitations at that debate stage - this was not possible then - and the second amendment, which took place here in the House a few weeks or two ago, was just discounts to entrepreneurs, in no way a burden increase. [[10.10]] Since then, the Government has conducted its conciliation discussions with the representative organisations, and these agreements, the six-year agreements, are now being put into law. What we have before us is welcome, because once again, this praises the performance of the Hungarian economy, the performance of Hungarian people and Hungarian businesses. This is what we can recognize in this law and pass the law. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-12-08-12	The lead speaker of Jobbik, Mr Dániel Z. Carpathian. Here.
u2016-12-08-13	Mr President, Dear House, I find it amazing from the representatives of the governing parties that if we have a fundamentally eligible package ahead of us, they will begin to give us a lecture on the period of the socialists here, with this huge vest, instructive style. This is embarrassing. Ladies and gentlemen. You've been governing for six years, talk about your own certificate. How long are you going to cover up with the period of the socialists that I have not otherwise protected? What they're doing is bloody embarrassing, you can see that this certificate is full of blank pages and incomplete parts. This is, of course, the opening up of the government fairy tale to not all the details of the truth, but it did happen, but the fact that we have to keep talking about the socialists is quite amazing. Once again, you are creating a climate where otherwise eligible is becoming the subject of uncertainty, as this would be a good proposal. A little shy, a little modest, compared to what could have a full impact on the market and the national economy, but the fact that you are constantly talking about the period of the socialists is an amazing certificate of poverty. We have to say, if you want to achieve a pay gap in Hungary, then we should talk about the national economy's foundations that you could not change at systemic level, even in relation to the age of these socialists. What exactly are we talking about? For example, you have over 70 strategic partners, you know, with whom strategic contracts have been signed. Most of these are public, some are classified. The question arises, Mr. Secretary of State, please help us with the orientation, how many of these strategic contracts have you been able to conclude a pay gap as one of the conditions for the coming of the multi-company concerned to operate here under preferential conditions? So I could ask my fellow Members, the key speakers who have just spoken: how many times have you been able to put pressure on your government to ensure that, at the time of signing strategic contracts, wage catching up, as such, is at least at the level of principles or even at the level of the requirement. The thing is, we don't see any signs of that. We can see that even in the case of car manufacturers, even now, strikes are taking place this year to force the workers themselves to do what otherwise could have been enforced by those signing strategic contracts, but the same servile mentality that previous Balliberal governments have shown you is returning to you. It was precisely your prime minister who analysed in detail that the inexpensiveness of the Hungarian labour force caused the foreign or working capital to arrive here, but the fact is that in the last 26 years none of the governments have broken off with this incredibly negative attitude. And if they wanted to force the pay gap, this could indeed be one of the options, more precisely, but these contracts could still be amended. At the same time, we cannot ignore the package in front of us, while offering a cosmetic discount to Hungarian small business, in addition to raising or increasing its wage burden where appropriate, it is serious, measurable for multi-enterprises, other interests and large enterprises, and I do not know how many tens of billions of dollars it provides, the magnitude of the hundred billion might be much closer to reality than the few ten billion. We can therefore say that when the Minister of National Economy talks about the assumption that about HUF 30 billion will be left with this package for small and medium-sized enterprises in Hungary, we should mention that you leave an order of magnitude more than large companies and multi-company companies, i.e. less than 1 percent of all businesses. While Hungarian small and medium-sized enterprises continuously provide two thirds of Hungarian jobs in a sustainable way, in a normal, spread-over way, and unlike those multi-enterprises that often extract their benefits from this country while avoiding public burdens, the benefits that the Hungarian people's work has contributed to. We must therefore tell them not to cover up for us with the period of the socialists, one of their weakest moments was - many, but let me highlight one of the weakest - when they were covered with the opinions of the three credit rating agencies. Well, I ask you, in addition to the fact that I'm glad that Hungary is out of the Bóvl category: when did you get into this bóvl category? When did these credit rating agencies examine the period? I'll tell you: in addition to the problems of the socialists' governance, your incredibly screwed-up economic policy has brought Hungary to the Bovli category. You can cover here with the IMF, you can cover with indebtedness, both had to be solved. One issue has been partly resolved, but with regard to government debt management, you have not been able to make any systemic changes in the last six years, nothing to be proud of. But speaking of three credit rating companies: I would like to point out to my fellow lead speaker at KDNP: you had another statement at ministerial level, which was that if all three credit rating agencies judged the country positively and highlighted it from the Bovl category, then your residency bond business could finally become redundant. The fact is that this has happened, so the basic condition has been met. Since then, we have not heard a word about whether either Minister of the National Economy or anyone else has taken steps to review the ways of obtaining dirty money. We would like to take out this bond business, but you have made a promise, you owe the people of Hungary that this promise will be accounted for. But we don't see this business going out this year. What do we see? It means that one of the brokerage companies is opening an office in Iraq, and we see that you have brought it to the Economic Commission so that the Cypriot intermediary can sell bonds in the Seychelles as well. That's the Fidesz majority, so you voted for it. A week later, it was withdrawn without justification, obviously due to public uproar, but we do not see who would want to run this business of getting dirty money. But it would be necessary to do so immediately, because, with huge national economic damage, you are actually contributing to possible terrorist imports, and this is unacceptable. It is therefore very difficult to maintain their credibility without the release of terrorist bonds, even if they are covered with credit rating agencies. It has been mentioned that this is the government of tax reductions. I would now like to go beyond why the accounting profession knows more than 60 tax types and types of tax increases, which are in the period of the current Orbán governments. I would also like to go beyond the introduction of some exotic tax types, but to mention one or two examples: ladies and gentlemen, what about the transaction tax? So there is a new tax type that has been called a levy, and how can this be passed on entirely to customers, consumers, Hungarian customers, and you have done nothing at all? Here is the person responsible for the NAV, its leader, who would be interested in your personal opinion: how can the transfer of the transaction fee be admitted by the relevant commercial banks, at least not one? [[Turning to András Tállai:]] You can smile at her. I don't think it's that funny. [[András Tállai: Yes, it is!]] When the letter was subsequently sent out to a Hungarian small company, this levy margin was collected on them for 4-5 months from the time the transaction period was imposed. Obviously, the bank sent the written file itself. I ask you, where is the consumer protection absorbed in the MNB, where is the decisive government action? So while you're talking about the government of tax cuts, the other pockets allow billions to flow, not to mention the banking sector special tax, because there, too, the transfer was actually continuous in various card fees, incorporated into transaction fees. And we can also see - to say positive - that this package is roughly, if we compare all its effects, it could reach even a 14 percent contribution reduction level. The problem begins in order for this to appear noticeably in wages, Jobbik's experts estimate that a contribution reduction rate of between 20 and 30% would be required. The Minister of National Economy said to me in the corridor that he was very ambitious, and I say that if we are to achieve a measurable increase in salary - that is, it is measurable in the market - then at least this level must be taken. At the same time, we see that, despite the commendable agreement, there will be truncated market effects, and if it is completed by providing unreasonably large discounts for multi-company companies, and only cosmetic ones for Hungarian small entrepreneurs, so that their wage burden will be increased, then, indeed, we see that there will be no systemic change. [[10.20]] You can see that if you touch the simple question of making the minimum wage exempt, you could achieve a much greater result, but for some reason you don't like to talk about it. So, for about 46th time, we've been asking you, no matter from which opposition faction, how the minimum wage is tax-free, and when it could be tax-free, there was no real answer to why, on the one hand, they had to take off the increase in the tax content and when they wanted to lead it out, if they wanted to do so at all. So I understand that they are capable of creative answers, they have been very capable of this for six years, but here is a specific question that calls for an answer, and we see that many people would be touched in a meaty way. If the government of the tax reduction wants to do anything for the benefit of Hungarian citizens, then indeed it is not only the period of the socialists that should be talked about, when there was a real and really sly trick of VAT cuts, then there were also VAT increases, but the real slyness and the real prehistoric sin after 2010 when this VAT content became 27 percent, you didn't like to talk about it. Interestingly, an EU record is maintained with 27 percent VAT. They are campaigning for some cosmetic reductions in some of the basic foods, which we always support, and the problem is that the average consumer basket is 6-7 percent for the range of products, so in about 6-7 of 100 products, of course, there is a cosmetic reduction, but 27 percent VAT is left on child-rearing articles, and remains on the bulk of articles purchased by pensioners. So you can talk about a 1.5 percent increase in pensions and the preservation of the real value of pensions, but do you not think that the real relief would be reduced to a normal level of VAT for a number of reasons. For the whole range of basic foods, this should be reduced to 5 per cent, and for child-rearing products to the same extent. They want to achieve a demographic turnaround, and I would like to, too, but this cannot be done if, in terms of VAT content, children are the most taxed in Europe, and your government, your family-friendly, supposedly tax-deducting government, taxes on childbearing, child rearing, and these 50 thousand forints of emergency aid are not helpful. I'm talking about VAT, which every month, every shopping, every family pays. Why is VAT 27 percent on children's education articles? I want you to give me a one-word, sensible, professional answer. Why is there the highest VAT on child-rearing articles throughout Europe, the family-friendly government? That's what I'm waiting for. Until we can find answers to these fundamental questions, you will not be able to facilitate the situation of families at systemic level, even if we support this package, but with much greater courage, we could achieve significantly greater results. Thank you for your attention. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2016-12-08-14	Thank you very much. The lead speaker of the LMP is Mrs Erzsébet Schmuck. Here you go.
u2016-12-08-15	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, This law, black and white, proves that the government is on the side of multinationals and capital, not the smaller ones and not the work. With this law, the government wants to make Hungary a tax haven, but not for small and medium-sized enterprises, but for the multinationals, the big ones. The legislative package deals with a number of content elements, from which two proposals deserve particular attention. One is the single rate of corporate tax, while the other is the reduction of the employer's contribution. The government wants to reduce the corporate tax to 9 per cent, and the social contribution tax, i.e. the employer's contribution, by 5 percentage points, from 27 per cent to 22 per cent; I will address both in detail later. In addition, the package of laws wants to reduce the small business tax from 16 percent to 14 percent, which is, of course, perfectly fine, and gives the municipalities the opportunity to tax the advertising media in their territory, with a maximum of HUF 12 thousand per square metre per year. It is left to the municipalities to determine the amount of tax and the zones in which it is to be established. The LMP has no objection to this principle. I would also like to mention two points that I will come back to later. In the legislative package, changes are planned to the IT rating fees of stock exchange providers, and we consider it critical that the pension lender can release data for government information. These data are data on the names, address, basic pension and benefits paid and benefits provided for persons receiving benefits. I'd like to talk to you about corporate tax first, but I'll start with one piece of data at the beginning. What you can see when you look around the world is that the world's income and wealth conditions have changed roughly over the past few years, and these changes are constantly accelerating. Today, the top 1 percent owns half of the planet and the 99 percent own the other half; therefore, this data should be stunned. Or another figure: today, the wealth of 65 richest people in the world is the size of 3.5 billion people on Earth. These are simply shocking numbers. Unfortunately, this process has started not only in other countries of the world, but also in Hungary, for example. We see, and obviously a lot of people in the world are thinking about it, also famous, well-known economists, that one of the main reasons for this is that they don't know about capital incomes, they don't want to tax them, and as a result, who is rich will only get richer and withdraws from public burdens, be it a rich man or a rich company. At home, the Hungarian government also does this, enriching the top 10-20 percent, supporting it with tax forints. A month ago, it seemed that the government finally recognized the failure and failure of the model based on low wages and tax incentives, which wanted to serve global capital at all costs, as indicated by the government's announced intention to raise the minimum wage. But what we do see is that the government has only come this far, they've chosen the wrong tool again, and I have to say, perhaps not by accident. The next necessary step is that Hungarian businesses and employees are strategic partners instead of multinationals, so far the government has not been able to reach them, and now they are halving the corporate income tax by a neoliberal step. This will take some 170-180 billion forints out of each of our pockets and, more importantly, will cement the dominant position of large companies and multinationals against Hungarian small and medium-sized enterprises. And then let's look at a little bit of principle about why it's wrong to reduce corporate income tax. First of all, I think it must be highlighted, because this is also unfair in principle. The income from capital has so far been taxed at a much lower rate than the income from work. To put it simply: so far, if someone has taken their money out of a large company as a dividend, the public burden was 31 percent - this came out 19 percent profit tax and 15 percent dividend tax - this is now reduced to 23.5 percent, while the state has now received 48 percent of the total wage. So the scissors continued to open, from 17 percentage points to 22.5 percent, even though the goal should be to make all kinds of income, to come from work or capital, whatever, and to tax in the same way, as public burdens should be borne together. Why isn't the reduction in corporate income tax good yet? It's not good, because he's going into a tax race going down, and there's no winner, just the multis. In the first year, it may seem to the government that more companies are taxing and increasing budget revenue, but this will only take so long as the neighbouring countries do not realize this and will not reduce taxes, and then it will decrease more than before. This is a downward spiral, which leads to companies and their owners barely paying taxes, and almost all the public burdens will be borne by the declining and slowly non-existent middle class. [[10.30]] Moreover, the reduction in corporate income tax is ineffective. It is ineffective because the retained income will not be used by companies to invest, not to create jobs, but simply put in pockets as income. There's no resource constraints, there's cheap funding if you want to invest. There is no condition for a reduction, no employment or investment, then it would be called a tax relief for this purpose. It should also be mentioned that it puts domestic small and medium-sized enterprises at a total and very, very disadvantage. This reduction, as many have said, favours only a thousand large companies, multis. A company with a large and international background in the market is always in a dominant position, there is no market equality, has greater administrative capacity to follow complicated regulations, has more capital power to endure a potentially more lossful period. Because of this dominant position, if small and medium-sized enterprises want to retain their essential role in the economy and perhaps even develop, and this is what the LMP wants, public intervention is needed, a regulation that protects smaller enterprises and balances the dominant position. The reduction of large companies' taxes is just the opposite: the delivery of small businesses. I note that, as soon as possible, LMP will also bring back the banded, progressive corporate income tax in this respect. We also need to talk a little bit about how the government justified a reduction in corporate income tax. At first, they said that this would be part of the cover for raising the minimum wage, but very soon it turned out that wasn't true. After all, they are typically minimum wage earners who do not work for large multi-company companies, and the 10 percent reduction you give to large companies, companies with profits above HUF 500 million, they will certainly put it in their pockets. And who really needed this, small and medium-sized enterprises, there is only a 1 percent reduction in taxes. But then you realized that this is not a good argument, and then you have already changed in this package of laws, in this package of laws you are saying that you need to reduce corporate income tax because this will increase Hungary's competitiveness. Now, that is not as true as the other item, because if we look at competitiveness in Hungary today, we see that, yes, multinational companies, which are competitive, and the competitiveness reserves are actually in small and medium-sized enterprises. So this item immediately fails to increase competitiveness, because you are putting virtually HUF 170-180-190 billion into the pockets of multinational companies by making corporate income tax a single key. Let's move on to a reduction in the social contribution tax. Yes, a lot of people in Hungary see that the reduction of the burden on wages is very long overdue. So far, the government has not been very concerned about this, apart from reducing the personal income tax of the wealthy, giving the top 10 percent a 500 billion a year gift. This was the result when you made personal income tax one-key in 2010. In the current situation, when the Hungarian economy is slow to halt due to labour shortages and emigration, the most urgent task would be to increase the net wages of workers. The government is now saying that it will increase the minimum wage and the guaranteed minimum wage. This is, of course, the right intention in itself, but on the one hand, few and, on the other, very many small and medium-sized enterprises with this instrument, in this way, as you are planning, this will be a very serious problem and an unbearable burden. This is not enough in itself, so the reduction plan for the minimum wage and the guaranteed minimum wage is due to the fact that the income of those at the lowest limit, i.e. the minimum wage, will increase. If you're a little above the minimum wage, you're not gonna get anything. You say that, of course, the increase in the minimum wage will later pay the rest of the wages. Well, that's either gonna work or it's not. Because you say a lot about the economy, but what we see today is that small and medium-sized enterprises are in very big trouble, where most of the minimum wage earners work, and where today three quarters of the employees are located in Hungary. As I have already said, it is unnecessarily burdening small and medium-sized enterprises with unbearable burdens. We think that we will continue - and we will say this over and over again, perhaps they will understand - that the one-key tax should be abolished, the minimum wage should be exempt, and that sja should be reduced to 12 per cent of the average wage and the minimum wage. In conjunction with this, we believe that it is necessary to reduce employee contributions, because if we reduce employee contributions and not employer contributions, then net income will immediately increase. In practice, the system proposed by LMP, i.e. the reduction of multi-key personal income tax, employers' contributions, could result in a 20% increase in the net value of not only the minimum wage but also the average wage. On the other hand, as is known, the government reduces the employer's contribution, although this reduces the costs and costs of businesses, but does not automatically mean higher wages for workers, since it does not compensate for the increase in the gross minimum wage. A lot of people with less education will suffer. Again, as I have already said many times, the multi-sectors benefit because they do not have a minimum wage worker, and thus the reduction amount will ultimately increase their profits, while small and medium-sized enterprises will practically have to generate the cost of the 15 per cent minimum wage. If we count, then it turns out that in order for a small and medium-sized enterprise to complete the 15 percent minimum wage increase now, it will have to produce 15 thousand forints plus for this, which very few small and medium-sized enterprises will be able to do. We think that another order would have been more appropriate, starting first by exempting the minimum wage and reducing the employee contribution. I would like to comment briefly on two more parts of the bill. One is the rating of the IT system of insurance and stock exchange providers. You have previously introduced a measure that required the IT system of energy companies to be classified, essentially by a designated company. This company is Hunguard Kft., a member of the interest of Antal Rogán Minister of Propaganda. Now you're playing the same game with insurance companies and stock market operators. This is, of course, a well-known fidesz method: by law to market companies that would otherwise be uncompetitive. With this, the Fidesz political class brings itself to billion-dollar incomes, at the expense of normal players in the economy and taxpayers. This practically parasite behavior in this case is accompanied by an even more serious one. The rating company can in principle contribute to the databases of the companies concerned while assessing the IT system. The rip-off of the energy industry, insurance and stock market companies' databases is a danger that should not be allowed, even less, to the moonyard of an almost fallen minister. Even for the pensioner's data, there's a few thoughts. The small surprise of the bill is the process of Fidesz wanting to update the obsolete Cubatov lists using 2.8 million pensioner data. The following data will now be obtained, and we think it is better for all pensioners to be aware of what data the government is stealing to update the Kubatov list under the cover of a one-time allowance of 10,000 forints. Names, address, basic pension number of persons receiving benefits and information on the benefit paid. Thus, by obtaining these figures, the government will target pensioners with the usual propaganda, with the letter of the Prime Minister. They're back in party propaganda with public money, and they're gonna spend billions on it again, and they're gonna be illegal again. [[10.40]] In order to provide pensioners with a one-time pension supplement, there is obviously no need for this data. And we're afraid that you're going to take advantage of this data, many times. And at the end of the day, just that the LMP also tabled an amendment, the point of the amendment was that we do not support the single rate of corporate income tax, and I would also like to say that the LMP will resubmit a package of laws that would increase not only the minimum wage, but also the average wage and the wages of the average wage. The LMP will not be able to support this package of laws in this approach. Thank you for your attention.
u2016-12-08-16	Thank you very much. It is now possible to make a two-minute speech. Congressman Dániel Z. Carpathian, Jobbik, in two minutes!
u2016-12-08-17	Mr President, Dear House, I do not say that it is surprising, although it is painful for us that no pro-government Member dared to press a two-minute button on the questions that have been said. I'm interested, too, Mr. Secretary, in your personal opinion. Turn up this 52nd. §, if you please, and tell me about it. [[András Tállai: Tell me about it?!]] That data can be released from propaganda steel - well, tell me about it, because it is very far from factual in the course of today - so tell me that the fact that data can be released from propaganda steel for a one-time pension supplement is now a tax, wage or contribution rule. How did you end up in this package? What's he doing here? What do you need this for? For what purpose do you want to extract these data? What kind of database do you want to update with it? What is your purpose, Mr. Secretary? What's your personal opinion of him? I'd be very interested. In the same way, I was asking you when they would finally touch to reduce the EU record rate of 27 per cent. What do you think of tax-free minimum wage? These are specific questions that call for answers. I asked one more thing: how do the Christian Democrats expect a demographic change, especially in Hungary, when children's education articles are taxed from the point of view of VAT all over Europe. We're looking for specific answers. Thank you. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2016-12-08-18	As a normal speaker, Mr Mihály Witzmann, representative of Fidesz!
u2016-12-08-19	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, I am sorry that my fellow Member Sándor Burány is not here, but perhaps he will look at the mediation, and he will be able to respond to it, or he will be able to come to the room during my comment. I would like to respond to my fellow Member, Sándor Burány, who said that we have a lack of understanding and lexical knowledge. First he gave this to my fellow Member Vas Imre, then I, and at the end, the Fidesz and KDNP fractions. As long as the head speaker of the MSZP says so, this, I think, is comforting to us. But speaking of lexical knowledge base or knowledge, I would like to recall to my fellow Member Mr Sándor Burány the vote he mentioned myself about the 27 percent VAT. This entered into force on 1 January 2012. I have been a representative of the Parliament since 2014. So if we are talking about lexical knowledge and loyalty, then it would be good for my fellow Member to say things that really stand the test of factuality, objectivity and reality. I think that anyone in Hungary today can make criticisms of economic policy issues, anyone in this room, except those who have already been able to produce such a successful eight-year economic policy between 2002 and 2010 that they have taken the country to the brink of bankruptcy. And that's another fact. In fact, if we look at things in their process, then we can say, we can say, and the facts really speak for themselves, that Hungary is doing better in all economic indicators, from the general government deficit to public debt, employment to inflation, economic growth, retail sales or even exports today than it did in 2002-2010. I have detailed data in front of me, but I don't think it should be listed because everyone can look into it. By the way, returning to lexical knowledge is obviously part of this, I think, of our common knowledge. On the other hand, it is also important to say that the IMF loan had to be repaid to the Fidesz-KDNP government, which, by the way, was hired by the socialists precisely as a result of their failed economic policy in order to save what could be saved. Moreover, in addition to tax reductions, wage increases, foreign exchange lenders were assisted, and there was also a reduction in premiums. These were necessary because the foreign currency loan was pushed on by Hungarian taxpayers during the governance of the socialists, and we remember the overhead, they said very slowly that we all understood it, but we managed to raise it 15 times overall; I mean gas and electricity. The price of gas is three times the price and the electricity is twice the price. These are, however, processes that need to be discussed, and when my fellow Member Sándor Burány tries to describe wage developments and to refer back to wage increases under their government, I would just like to say that between 2002-2010, in fact, the public sector's one month's wages were taken away by the MSZP governments, and we should not forget that pensioners have been brought up to a month's pension. I remember that election campaign where they were bidding on each other for 14th and 15th months' pensions, and then they ended up not even asking the pensioners. They didn't even report it, so they took their 13th month's pension away from them. I think it is also important to say that this is not the name of the Fidesz-KNDP government, standing on the ground of lexical knowledge and factuality. Introduction of new taxes. There were, indeed, new taxes, but in particular, as I mentioned in my speech as the lead speaker, they were used mainly to tax banks and multinationals and to turn them into public burdens. I believe that this hurts multi-friendly and bank-friendly MSZP governments or representatives of ex-governments, but I do think that it is important to say this, standing on the ground of factuality. And I have indeed noted to myself what Congressman Burány said that Fidesz has led the country into an economic recession. Ladies and Gentlemen, Dear fellow Members, I understand that the end of the year is coming, and I also understand that New Year's Eve is coming, where there will obviously be some very good cabaret shows on television. I suggest to Sándor Burány that he try to make this statement there, he will certainly have a greater success there than in Parliament, because in order for Fidesz to bring the country into economic recession, this is indeed the cabaret category, to say the least, and if the MSZP has not had such success in economic policy, I hope that this success will be guaranteed in these cabarets. I would really only respond briefly to Mr Jobbikos' speech. I'm glad that Jobbik has managed to protect the Socialists again, by the way. [[Z. Carpathian Daniel: Oh, don't make me laugh.]] I am also glad that we have arrived at another important stage for the budding love of Jobbik and the left. [[Dániel Z. Carpathian: Back off a little bit!]] Please note in the record how high the right-wing verbal communication can rise within the lines of the parliamentary horseshoe. [[Z. Carpathian Daniel: Please too! Intercoms from Jobbik's benches.]] So I would like to say to Dániel Z. Kárpát that we are constantly talking back to the socialists, and we are not doing this because it is good for us, dear Member, not because it is our hobby, but because - and I am not saying that, many historians and economists have said this - that we also need to see economics, history and politics in the process. You can't grab a slice! And why should we mention the socialists? That's because they've been on the government before. Jobbik has not yet succeeded, and I trust him very, very much, for the sake of the country - fortunately, many of us - that it will remain so for a long time. Finally, I would like to say that the tax reduction and the rise in wages that we were talking about today, I think, in itself, simplifying what I have to say, is a good thing. It's a positive thing, it's a thing to support. That is why at the beginning of my speech I asked you to support this, regardless of party standing, because it is in the interests of the country, it is in the interests of Hungarian families, Hungarian workers, employers and businesses. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-12-08-20	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, I will ask if anyone else wishes to take the opportunity to speak. [[For signal:]] Congresswoman Erzsébet Schmuck, LMP! [[10.50]]
u2016-12-08-21	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I'd like to continue here. My fellow Member, Mr Witzmann, has stopped saying that tax cuts and wage increases are good things. Indeed, but you want to do this with the wrong means and the wrong way. It is simply not understandable why you do not watch what is happening in the world and what processes are happening in Hungary. You are making a success contribution to the fact that some macroeconomic indicators are good in Hungary and believe that the Hungarian economy and society are in a stable state. They refuse to pay attention to how Hungarian society is breaking up, how more and more people in Hungary are getting poorer and fewer and fewer people are getting rich. They do not want to understand, one of the most important tasks is that the separation of Hungarian society should be prevented and slowed down. That's one of the most important things. But the economy is also breaking apart; fewer and fewer multinationals and large companies are being torn apart, and more and more small and medium-sized enterprises, which are becoming less and less and more and more and more and more and more and more and more and more and more and more and more and more small and medium-sized enterprises that are not able to operate anymore. You do not want to understand the need to strengthen small and medium-sized enterprises in Hungary. They do not want to understand that the Hungarian economy should be put on many feet. You're simply living in a dream world. Sometimes I get the feeling that you have no idea how simple, poor Hungarian people live, how to make a living from 88,000 forints a month or less. You are not paying attention to the fact that the gap is practically growing between the poor and the rich. The tools must be chosen for this. You choose the wrong tool when you want to make the profit tax one-key, when you benefit those with profits above HUF 500 million, when you give them 10 percent, when you give them HUF 170-180 billion from the budget, when this money should be spent elsewhere, when it should be spent on education, health care. You don't talk about it. You're hiding behind the fact that the social community doesn't know how many years ago they did what they did. We should look ahead, fellow Members, and look at the means to choose. You're choosing the wrong instrument. With this instrument, people will continue to be poor, and Hungary will be a country of multi-country. What will become of Hungary? All you do is raise the wages of minimum wage earners. What about the one with 5 forints more than the minimum wage? What's gonna happen to those guys? Nothing. And if, in the world, which is being rumbled more and more, a situation similar to that in 2008, what happens in Hungary? You have delivered the Hungarian economy to the automotive industry. What happens when a crisis starts? Italy is here, look at the banks, talking about the impact that the bankruptcy of the banks in Italy will have on Europe. They're talking about how you plan to raise the minimum wage for six or eight years in advance. But it must be said, fellow Members, that they cannot see beyond their noses. What's gonna happen next? They're gonna tell you it's gonna be the next one? We should think about choosing the right tools and not bringing in political blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah. Thank you for your attention. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2016-12-08-22	Mr. Dániel Z. Carpathian Congressman Jobbik!
u2016-12-08-23	Mr President, Dear House, We must say that this debate is coming to an end, and this is also apparent from the lack of registered speakers. A member of the Government stood up, and I must pay my respects, but he has not answered any of the points of substance. My fellow Member, Mr Witzmann, accuses us of Jobbik colliding with the socialists. I'm asking you not to make fun of me because I told you, but I'm going to say it more slowly, so that you can understand, too, what we said about VAT, it was that the socialists - I may have used that word - with a sneaky trick that was sold as a decrease, and then they moved it to a raise in terms of VAT, but to a 25-percent hat. So even during the socialists, there was no mention of 27 percent VAT that your party made, and it was done with its active contribution. You can try to cover yourself by saying that you weren't a Member of Parliament at the time. Well, you have a mandate in the colors of that party and community. Be a man and take it, take it. You don't hear me deny any previous statement by Jobbik. That's right, you try and get in there and don't try to get yourself out of your own community's decisions, because it's not nice and it's not manly. The fact is that if we look for a great coalition in Hungary, we can find it in the Fidesz-MSZP for decades. Let us see the almost unread signing of the Lisbon Treaty, the issues that arise in connection with the so-called accession of Romania to the EU, so there are a number of issues where you have jointly betrayed Hungary in relation to national fate issues. You can discuss this, but I could also bring in issues of sovereign debt management, where no strategic change has been brought in in in the last six years. They also worked together to turn Hungary into a assembly plant, a assembly plant where you are proud to stand up and beat your breasts about the perceived or real numbers of economic policy performance that you managed the EU's incoming funds well. But he can't tell us that we have a home-building and rental-building program with our own budget money, that we have a Hungarian economy on our own. In fact, you are proud to act as a good translation team, so the principles invented in Brussels are implemented, brought into the Hungarian legal system and the development resources used there. That may not be the basis of pride. My specific question stands at the same time. The specific question was why, in the context of more than seventy strategies, Mr Witzmann, it was not stipulated when these contracts were signed that the level of wages should at least start slowly approaching not only the Western European average, but, say, the Central European average, which workers working in these other countries would receive in a similar job. Why do you have to live on the fact that the Hungarian workforce is cheap and vulnerable? Why can this be used as a strategic advantage and for how long? And again, I have to say, you can hide here by making a record of what I'm yelling at you. Yeah, avoid it, because we're men and we're willing to do what we say. I'm asking the same of you. Act like a man, answer specific questions, try, maybe even you will. Thank you for your attention. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik. Mihály Witzmann: We'll go out there and figure it out!]]
u2016-12-08-24	Congressman Attila Mesterházy, MSZP!
u2016-12-08-25	Will the congressmen go out and play it, or will they talk about it in the hallway? I am in the fortunate position that I have not heard my fellow Member Sándor Burány's comment, so I am not disturbed by what has been said in my opinion. However, I heard what Congressman Mihály Witzmann said in his speech. In fact, I do not see it as my better fellow Member said that you would have answered, but simply instructed the opposition. No matter what you said, what criticism you expressed, you told me how to see it, and everyone else who sees it differently is either a traitor or a gay or simply a fool. [[Mihály Witzmann: Who said that?]] Your party. [[Dr. János Latorcai, vice-president of the Parliament, takes the chair.]] Therefore, I would like to remind you that before you became a Member, there was life before that, so that was not the beginning of the economy in Hungary or history. And if you are already travelling to historical perspectives, it is worth moving forward until the end of the two thousand years when the problems related to the budget began in Hungary. But right now, I don't want to go into this for a long time. I'd just like to remind you to put your sense of time forward a little bit. But the fact that, after six years of government, of which two thirds of them have spent several years, they still refer to what it was, and to today's Hungarian problems they face the fact that there was an eight-year-old socialist government, I don't think voters believe you. And that all the answers to all the criticisms are that, as it was then, it simply does not answer these questions. They say they've reduced taxes. Yes, taxes have been reduced for the rich, and the lower wages pay the price. As left-wing parties, we say it's not right. It is right that anyone with a higher salary should assume greater responsibility for Hungary's financing. On the other hand, you're acting the other way around, so let's just say it's a perverted social policy and tax policy that you're doing, because you're helping people who need less help. Then they said there'd be a beer mat on the tax return. I don't see this beer mat either, and they could have done it with all the tax legislation amendments. They said they were helping the Feds. Yeah, but mostly for better-to-be foreign exchange lenders who were able to withdraw their money at home and repay their debt. Again, they were much less helpful to those who really needed it. They say there's never been a normal wage increase. Well, Prime Minister Péter Medgyessy was criticized for being one of the prime ministers who kept his promises. We made a 50 percent average wage increase in the public sector at the time. Then there was indeed, as you mentioned, a 13th month pension. This happened not to be given by the Fidesz government, not by it, but by a socialist government, and when this was no longer possible because of the limitations of economic opportunities, it did indeed withdraw it. [[11.00]] But instead, he kept a so-called pension premium, which is still in place in today's Hungarian reality, but you do not apply it. In fact, at the time, there was also a Swiss indexation of pensioners, which put them in a much more favourable position than raising pensions. Or he mentioned a reduction in the rent. Then I'm asking you, why don't you just cut back on the rent. What are we waiting for? Well, actually, the price of oil on the market is far less than what you're asking for. Mihály Varga, at the hearing of the Committee on Budgets, you were there, talking about the possibility, but it still has to wait until the international market conditions are even better. What I see is that these market conditions would be favourable for a further reduction in demand. Then I would also like to remind you that, with regard to the various macro indicators, I would like to quote your Prime Minister, who said after the 2010 elections at a conference in Paris, he said that Hungary is a European champion in reducing the deficit target and praised the Hungarian economy in this respect, which would have praised the work of the government before him. What I'm trying to say is that when there is a global economic crisis, there are completely different options and challenges for a government than when it seems to settle down. And in this, I think the socialist government has indeed had a result, and the political price of which was also paid by the then faction. The other is to say that we are or we were the multi-boyfriends. Well, I'd like to tell you that you're as multi-friendly as any other government that used to work, because outside of the special tax, you actually put an extra charge on these companies anyway, but with your other hand, you gave them back a lot of things. So perhaps the ballan is even better than before in your case, because, for example, the change in the labour code and many other things must have had a positive impact on these companies. The 25 percent VAT reduction, to which my better fellow Member referred, I was suffering from it, because at that time, as the State Secretary for Consumer Protection, I was one of the campaigners of this VAT reduction, and indeed the government was forced to raise it back; but, as has been said, to 25 percent and not 27 percent. And with the 27 percent VAT, since VAT is usually called the tax of the poor, they again put in a more difficult position the social classes who are already in a greater shortage. So I would agree with Ms Erzsébet Schmuck's sentences that the problem is that every single economic step or social policy move of you puts the privileged few in an even better position, while the majority in Hungary is getting worse and we are witnessing growing social problems in Hungary. So I would also suggest to my fellow Member, for many reasons, that a little less lecture and more partnerships would certainly help more in this parliamentary debate than this kind of arrogance, which we are now experiencing for the first time by the Fidesz fraction. Thank you very much.
u2016-12-08-26	Thank you very much, Congressman. I would like to welcome my fellow Members. Two-minute speeches are now possible. I give the floor to Congressman Lajos Kepli, representing Jobbik. Here you go.
u2016-12-08-27	Thank you very much, Mr. President. A not so small part of this proposal is the new tax that you, the Fidesz government, are going to impose on municipalities, not directly, within the framework of legislation. This is the possibility of taxing public advertising, which has recently been leaked to the press in the form of a bill, that you would like to eliminate the entire system of billboards in Hungary on the basis of visual pollution. Visual pollution seems to be less important now if it can generate revenue for the central budget. The maximum rate of this is 12 thousand forints per square metre per year, which is 144,000 forints for a 12-square-metre average billboard. Most of the billboard companies, especially smaller companies, could be completely bled out and hundreds or thousands of jobs could be lost. It is quite clear that the government's intention is that the one or two giant companies that you have made giant companies who deal with advertisements should remain; and the smaller companies who might also provide opposition parties with the opportunity to make political appearance in the election campaign, by the time we arrive there by spring 2018, should not have the opportunity to operate billboards, giant billboards, because they will not obviously understand these signs after the tax has been introduced. As the media has already started the total discussion, the entire government-party unilateral information, they want to move this into public advertising. This tax serves this purpose, and there is no other meaningful explanation for why they want to impose such a horriable tax on public advertising. Of course, Jobbik will not be able to support this in this form - the total repression of our opinion. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2016-12-08-28	Thank you very much, Congressman. A proper speech from the Fidesz Group will be followed by Congresswoman Mónika Dunai. Here you go, Congresswoman.
u2016-12-08-29	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Erzsébet Schmuck from the LMP said that the path followed by Fidesz-KDNP, which, of course, I do not quote literally, is reflected in this proposal, this bill, is a bad way. Well, I would like to ask the honourable Members of the LMP: wage increases and tax cuts are the wrong path? Because if tax cuts and wage increases are the wrong way to go, I think we see the world quite differently. We are then on a different path, and the path we are on is good, i.e. the policy of wage increases, reductions, VAT reductions and tax reductions. And I must say to my fellow Member that we will not stray from this path, even if the LMP says that it believes that this is the wrong way. And it will be up to the electorate to decide whether tax reductions and wage increases are the right path or the opposite, wage cuts and tax increases. As regards family policy and the funds for family policy, Sándor Burány mentioned this - I am sorry that he has already left the room -. He took one thing, the family allowance. He said the family allowance didn't grow much. But, fellow Members of the MSZP, you should know that, and you certainly know that, you just pretend you don't know that in Hungary the family allowance was not the only, perhaps even at your time, the only family support system. Today, we spend almost 5 percent of GDP on family support in Hungary. You may have missed the fact that, in addition to the family allowance, where there is one child, you can deduct 10 thousand forints a month from your taxes. This stays with them as an extra income. For two children, this is the sum of 20,000 forints, which we will double in four years. And then we didn't even talk about the lawn, the increased amount of the lawn, we didn't even talk about the ged extra, we didn't even talk about the family home creation discount, the 10 plus 10 million HUF - 10 non-refundable, 10 very discounted - loan options. I think that they should be said in the Hungarian debate, not just what is a bit of a criticism. And once again, every family can decide... - we can argue here between the walls of this House about anything, the opposition can say that it is wrong, that we are reducing taxes and raising wages, we can say that it is good, then people will decide whether it is good or not. And I say that if someone counts and thinks, and we do not consider Hungarian people as minors, yes, they will know that if they have more salaries, they are better off, and if they have less taxes, it is better for them, or on the contrary. Thank you very much for the floor. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2016-12-08-30	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Mr Schmuck, Head of Group Erzsébet, has now applied to speak again from the LMP Group. Here you go.
u2016-12-08-31	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Just so he doesn't stay in the air and that he doesn't keep what my colleague Mónika Dunai said. I thought that the reason why the ruling party didn't accept proposals from the opposition is because it doesn't matter what we say, but who says it in the proposals. So you typically do not accept any proposals from opposition parties or opposition representatives. [[11.10]] But now I realize that it's not just that, but it's also about you ignoring what we're saying. So you were completely unaware of what I was saying. I didn't say the LMP didn't think it was an important route. Yes, LMP has been saying for a very long time that wage increases are needed, and public burdens and taxes are very high in Hungary, and this should be reduced. What I was talking about was that you chose the wrong instrument. You choose tools that put the multinationals in position again and put them in the pockets of the multinationals, the fact is that between 170 and 180 billion forints are reduced from 19 per cent to 9 per cent. We also find it a bad way now that you reduce your employer's contributions and not your employee's contributions. So that's what I'm talking about. I would ask you, Congresswoman, at other times, to pay attention to the content that we say and to the content. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2016-12-08-32	Thank you very much, Madam Group leader. Congressman Attila Mesterházy, from the MSZP, for a two-minute comment. Here you go, Congressman.
u2016-12-08-33	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, I would also say to Mónika of the Danube that we should not simplify things so much, because it is unworthy that we would say that the wage increase is wrong and that the tax reduction is wrong. Congresswoman, let's not say that. I would say, perhaps, that I should be polite, too, if I had just told a Fidesz congressman that we were saying that it doesn't matter who their taxes are being reduced, and it doesn't matter to what extent and to whom their wages are being increased. I understand that a different approach is being taken by a conservative party and a left-middle social democratic party, we have always believed, and we will also believe that equality, justice and solidarity are an important value, and therefore it is very important that those who live worse, who live in difficult circumstances, receive greater help from the state, not those who belong to the top ten percent. Prosperity does not dwindle, so the more we help the rich, the more it does not work in social policy, that this well-being will then run down to the lower levels of society - so to speak - those who are in a position of income. That is why we say that we think that we need to intervene progressively, proactively here, and in this there is a debate between representatives of conservative values and representatives of a progressive values system on the left. But it doesn't have to be seen - or perhaps you're lucky not to see - that we are so united-minded politicians that we say to a wage increase that it's bad for a tax reduction that it's bad. We see the Hungarian reality a little more sophisticated than that, and even the government's actions. Thank you very much.
u2016-12-08-34	Thank you very much. I will ask my fellow Members if anyone else wishes to speak in the debate. [[There's no candidate.]] I don't see any contact. The consolidated debate is closed. I will ask Mr András Tállai, State Secretary, if he wishes to respond to what has been said in the debate. [[For signal:]] Yes, he does. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2016-12-08-35	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, Firstly, I would like to respond to the pension increase and the Elisabeth voucher, I think, to the public, too, so that it is clear. The Hungarian Socialist Party asks that after a 0.9 percent increase in the 2017 budget, it is indicated that it will become 1.6 percent. Here's the answer. The same law also states that the government may add additional increases in the light of expected macroeconomic developments and data. In view of the impact on the consumer price index, the government, the competitive sector and the government's permanent consultation forum, agreed at the meeting of the VKF that the government decided to increase above the previous inflation forecast, with a rate of 0.7 per cent, i.e. an overall increase of 1.6 per cent for pensioners from 1 January 2017. This was discussed at the government meeting on 30 November. It will be governed by a government decree. The other question is the question of Elizabeth's voucher. With regard to the Elisabeth voucher, pensioners have no tax or tax obligations. The net amount of the HUF 10 thousand Erzsébet voucher is indeed subject to personal income tax and health contributions. However, this is paid by the paying agent to the National Tax and Customs Office, so the pensioner - I stress once again - has nothing to do with it, just as it is not true, and it is a false tax expert's understanding and revelation to the general public, which is also outrageous to give a tax return to pensioners because of the HUF 10,000 Erzsébet voucher. That is not true; under the law, pensioners are not liable to tax returns. I would like to respond in parentheses to the request for a personal income tax return with a beer mat. There's also a beer mat tax return right now. It is true that this is expected to cease in spring 2017 and that the National Tax and Customs Office will prepare a personal income tax return for everyone. As regards the acquisition of pensioners' data and the criticism that the government, or the Prime Minister personally, will address pensioners and write letters to them, I understand that no country prohibits the government from otherwise addressing its own voters, entrepreneurs, pensioners or other interest groups, social groups, including pensioners. The process of addressing pensioners takes place in full compliance with the Data Protection Act, so it is not true that this is illegal and illegal. Turning to the bill, I would like to begin by thanking the governing parties for their support. I very much hope that, in the course of next week, the bill, if not otherwise - because it cannot be excluded whether the opposition parties support it, although not on the basis of the speeches - will, on the basis of the vote of the pro-government majority, adopt the bill on the historic reduction of public burdens and wage increases on Parliament's table. As for the attitude of the Hungarian Socialist Party, I see nothing new in this. For each bill, basically, old times, old times of government, Gyurcsány-times, Medgyessy-times, minimum wage, zero tax, raise the pension to the skies, and then when you ask the Prime Minister to tell you that all the loans that the country has taken up, what it spent on, you answer that it is for increases in pensions and wages. Well, Honourable Hungarian Socialist Party, not present, Sándor Burány, who expressed these words, the current wage increase and pension increase is not from credit, not from debt, but from what Hungary, the Hungarian economy, has produced, so the country redistributes what the country itself was able to produce, and not from credit and debt, as Ferenc Gyurcsány said. Now you're crying back this system, by the way, you don't mention the name of Ferenc Gyurcsány anymore. I can't understand Jobbik's speech. [[Z. Carpathian Daniel: That's wrong!]] He didn't care much about the bill. The usual lonzunges go that the rate of the VAT rate, the settlement policy, has nothing to do with the bill, the transaction fee. However, a very interesting proposal has been made, and it will be worth interpreting, and I have heard from the better speaker that there is little reduction in the public burden, and he proposes a reduction of 20-30 per cent of the public burden. I would like to tell Jobbik that there is a total burden of 28,5 percent for employers on the burden of living work. If you want to cut 30 percent, you're saying you're gonna cancel the social contribution tax. Then I don't know if the other requirements [[Dániel Z. Carpathian: It really hurts that he didn't understand! Noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] Where will the rest of their promises go? Read back what you said, 20-30 percent reduction in contributions [[Z. Kárpát Dániel: We are talking about 30 percent of the 28 percent! Noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] Twenty-thirty percent drop. [[György Szilágyi: This is 30 percent of the 28 percent!]] [[11.20]] LMP did not deviate from its position and opinion so far. [[Erzsébet Schmuck: Coherent!]] They say we need to increase taxes. [[Erzsébet Schmuck laughs.]] So far, they have been in favour of increasing personal income tax, eliminating single-key personal income tax and introducing progressive taxation - that means you are increasing taxes [[Erzsébet Schmuck: Well, I can't believe it!]] - and now Erzsébet Schmuck has said that I want the same thing with corporate tax. Exactly what you said was that there should be a banded, progressive tax on corporate tax. We can say it now, but at least they admit it honestly here in Parliament: LMP is a party to tax increases [[Erzsébet Schmuck: No!]] At least on the basis of the opinions expressed. I think that opposition parties cannot or do not want to understand this bill, which, by the way, has a six-year agreement between employers and workers, they cannot or do not want to understand. I don't know what that comes from, probably from their opposition position. However, I would like to draw attention to the fact that a social agreement has been reached on this issue. Everyone, essentially the whole country, has joined the agreement, the increase in wages and the reduction in public burdens through employees and employers. However, the opposition does not join this issue. I think that this bill, and what is behind it, the six-year wage agreement, should have been considered a little more seriously and responsibly by the opposition parties and formed their views. Now that you do not support this, you are facing society as a whole. Of course, this does not make us pro-government people very sad, but it is a fact that they are in the wrong direction and are pushing bad things around Parliament when, on the basis of such a far-reaching historic agreement, this will be a law of historical importance, they cannot support it. I think that this bill, which will become a law, will change Hungary's competitiveness, change the efficiency of the Hungarian economy, increase productivity, and certainly improve labour supply. We hope that, of course, not only the minimum wage, but all the other wages will rise, and Hungary will be a more competitive country. What is more, we hope that workers who plan to go abroad will not go abroad to work, and those who are abroad, perhaps seeing the economic processes and effects of this bill, will consider coming home, and will be able to continue their lives and work in Hungary. This bill is indeed historic and changes the life of the entire country. That's why I'm asking the Parliament to support the bill. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-12-08-36	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, The decision will take place at our next meeting. There follows a general debate between the Government of Hungary and the Government of Oman on the publication of a bill on the avoidance of double taxation and avoidance of taxation in the field of income taxes until closure. Government referral T/13089. Number 2 is available on the Parliament's IT network. First, I give the floor to Mr András Tállai, Secretary of State of the Ministry of National Economy, author of the item on the agenda, within a 30-minute time frame. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2016-12-08-37	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, On 2 November 2016, we entered into a new agreement with the Omani Sultan to avoid double taxation in the field of income taxes. The Convention was signed in Oman following consultations under the mandate of the Prime Minister in accordance with the Act on the Procedure for International Contracts and following the Government's decision. The application of the Convention precludes double taxation of the income of individuals or businesses, specifying the scope of which Contracting State has the right to taxation in respect of each type of income. The Convention sets out the application of the principle of equal treatment and allows both Contracting Parties to initiate a reciprocal conciliation procedure with the other Party if it considers that its taxation does not comply with the provisions of the Convention. The Convention contains several guarantee measures to prevent tax evasion and evasion and provides the competent authorities of the Contracting Parties with the possibility of using full exchange of information in accordance with current international standards. The Hungarian-Romanian tax convention is in line with the economic interests of the partner states in a balanced manner, and is in line with international practice in terms of taxing income. However, the tax convention is in line with the other bilateral tax conventions that we have concluded so far and serves well the development of bilateral relations and the interests of investors. The need to establish a tax convention is confirmed by the fact that, through its conclusion, Hungary is among the first to have an international treaty for the development of business relations, which addresses taxation issues, which also serves to preserve the country's competitiveness. In order for the international treaty on the agenda to become part of internal law, it is necessary to recognise its binding scope and publish it in law. In view of the fact that the Convention concerns an exclusive legislative object, it should only be published by law. Dear Parliament, Based on what you've said, please support the bill. Thank you. [[Applause in the ranks of Fidesz.]]
u2016-12-08-38	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, The speeches will now be held by the Members, the first among which will be the speeches by the lead speaker. I give the floor first from the Fidesz Group to Mrs Mónika Dunai. Here you go, Congresswoman.
u2016-12-08-39	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, The Fidesz Group agrees with the aim of developing our bilateral economic relations dynamically, which is greatly facilitated by a legally regulated economic environment. The conclusion of the tax convention provides a more favourable, transparent economic and legal background for investors of both parties. Thus, with the conclusion of the convention, we can expect economic relations to recover and capital investment to increase. The main objective of the Convention on the Avoidance of Double Taxation between Hungary and the Omani Sultanship is to regulate taxation and make it predictable in bilateral relations. Its importance is to exclude double taxation of income of individuals and businesses by applying it in such a way as to determine which contracting party has the right to taxation in respect of each type of income. The Convention provides the competent authorities of the Contracting Parties with an opportunity to exchange information and ensures that either Contracting Party initiates a conciliation procedure with the other Party if it considers that its taxation does not comply with the provisions of the Convention. It can be concluded that the Convention complies, in substance, with international practice, with the principles and rules adopted in the OECD Model Convention and its commentary, as well as with other bilateral conventions that we have concluded so far. On this basis, the Fidesz Group will propose to vote in favour of the law. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-12-08-40	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. The lead speaker of the MSZP Group is Mr Attila Mesterházy. Here you go, Congressman.
u2016-12-08-41	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Official political relations between the two countries are relatively recent, since diplomatic relations were established in 1990, but nevertheless, Oman is of strategic importance, due to the Hormuzian Strait at the border, through which a significant part of the oil essential to the world economy passes. This strategic weight is also shown by the fact that its main partners - to highlight some - are Saudi Arabia, the United Arab Emirates, the United States, the European Union, and especially the United Kingdom or Japan and India. In fact, there is a Hungarian company for which the region is also strategic, such as MOL, which has been involved in the exploration of Oman's mineral assets since 2007, and in 2008 the Omanian state-owned oil company gained 7 percent of the MOL Group, and the Omani oil company is the third largest shareholder of MOL. [[11.30]] The process, which led to the signing of the convention, began in 2011, when the government authorised Hungary to open negotiations with Oman on the avoidance of double taxation in the field of income taxes and the prevention of circumvention of taxation. By 2012, both parties reached an agreement in the text, so the treaty could be signed by our country, and this signature was realized in Oman on 2 November 2016, and the Hungarian Government signed this agreement. In our view, the Convention complies with international practice, the principles and rules adopted in the OECD Model Convention and its commentary, as well as the other bilateral tax conventions that we have concluded so far, and the Hungarian Socialist Party's parliamentary group will therefore support the adoption of the bill. Thank you very much.
u2016-12-08-42	Thank you very much, Congressman. The lead speaker of the Jobbik Group is Mr Dániel Z. Carpathian. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2016-12-08-43	Mr President, Dear House, It is likely that this is one of the proposals of this parliamentary session that will be discussed as quickly as possible, which is why, although I do not feel so fortunate that my fellow members of government have lived with a simple reading, it would have been much more exciting to make their own views known about the economic relations between Hungary and Oman, since I do not see a serious reason to vote in favour of this package, but I would have been interested in what kind of capital investments are expected by the pro-government representatives who come from the region, what prospects they have for MOL's activities, and obviously do not go into the tax system, because here, if not required by an OECD standard, it is actually the signing of a proposed package. The only thing I can resent is that we agreed to go into a smaller reading-south instead of seeing the real government vision. [[András Tállai intervenes.]] I understand that the Secretary of State resents this, but believe me, if he complements this with his own opinion and visions, it will be much more effective to convince opposition representatives. [[András Tállai: You're not talking about the law!]] Thank you for your attention. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2016-12-08-44	Thank you very much, Congressman. We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. We now have the Members' speeches. I would like to ask my fellow Members if anyone would like to take advantage of the opportunity to speak. [[No one's reporting.]] I don't see any contact. The general debate is closed. I will ask the Secretary of State if he wishes to respond to what has been said in the debate. [[On the mark of András Tállai:]] He doesn't want to. Dear Parliament, The amendment proposals can be submitted by 16:00 today. The draft law on the publication of the Convention between the Government of Hungary and the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the exchange and mutual protection of classified information, the draft law between the Government of Hungary and the Government of the Russian Federation on the publication of the Convention on the reciprocal protection of classified information, the draft law on the publication of the Convention on the exchange and mutual protection of classified information between the Government of Hungary and the Government of the Kingdom of Spain, and the joint general debate on the draft law on the publication of the Convention on the exchange and mutual protection of classified information between the Government of Hungary and the Government of Montenegro until closure. Government referrals T/13086, T/13087, T/13088. and T/13090. available on the parliamentary IT network by numbers for all of them. First, I give the floor to Secretary of State Tibor Pogácsás, Secretary of State of the Ministry of the Interior, author of the item on the agenda, within a 30-minute time frame. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2016-12-08-45	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, The Act on the Protection of Classified Data replaced the Act on State Secrets and Service Secrets as well as the Act on National Security Supervision as of 1 April 2010. The new legislation in force from 1 April 2010 has fundamentally codified the structure of the protection of classified information in Hungary, created a uniform legal and institutional system for the protection of classified information and fulfilled our most important legal harmonisation obligations. The law on the protection of classified information was justified by the need for a comprehensive review of the Law on State Secrets and Service Secrets, as there was a lack of rules on the protection of foreign, such as NATO and EU and national classified information. The standards that have been amended since our accession to the EU and the necessary legal institutions such as national personal and site security certificates and national industrial security systems have not been adopted. However, with the entry into force of the Act on the protection of classified data on 1 April 2010, it established the necessary legal bases for the conclusion and application of bilateral confidentiality agreements and thus the elimination of the non-compliance of our country in this area. Accordingly, our country has concluded an agreement with the Slovak Republic, the Republic of Poland, the Czech Republic, the Republic of Latvia, the French Republic, the Republic of Austria, the Republic of Macedonia, the Republic of Albania, the Kingdom of Belgium, the Republic of Cyprus and the Italian Republic on the exchange and mutual protection of classified information already published in law. For several countries, negotiations on similar conventions have already been concluded and the final text of the conventions is being established. However, due to the implementation of the Act on the Protection of Classified Data, the fulfilment of Hungary's international commitments and closer cooperation with the exchange and mutual protection of classified information, it is appropriate to conclude further contracts. We believe that the establishment of these conventions is justified so that Hungary can participate in international security cooperation involving the exchange of classified information, which requires the conclusion of bilateral agreements ensuring the protection of classified information in order to achieve this goal. In order to establish the text of the bilateral conventions and to open negotiations, the mandate was given by the Prime Minister's decisions on the preparation and establishment of international contracts for the protection of classified information. According to a bilateral agreement concluded under the Act on the Protection of classified information, the protection of classified data of the Republic of Croatia, the Russian Federation, the Republic of Montenegro and the Kingdom of Spain will also be supervised by the National Security Inspectorate in the future. Under the Convention, Hungary undertakes to protect classified information exchanged or generated under the Conventions on the basis of their compatibility with each other on the basis of the national classification levels set out in the Conventions. In the framework of security cooperation to ensure mutual protection, the competent security authorities shall process the classified information provided under the Conventions, provide each other with information and assistance, recognise each other's personal and site security certificates and, where necessary, conduct visits to verify the management of classified information. The Agreement between Hungary and the Republic of Croatia on the exchange and mutual protection of classified information was signed by the Contracting Parties on 10 July 2016 and the Convention on the reciprocal protection of classified information between Hungary and the Russian Federation on 7 September 2016 by the Contracting Parties on the exchange and mutual protection of classified information between Hungary and Montenegro by the Contracting Parties on 6 October 2016 and the Convention on the exchange and mutual protection of classified information between Hungary and Spain by the Contracting Parties in Budapest on 15 June 2016. According to the law on the procedure for international treaties, Parliament may authorise the recognition of the mandatory scope of the conventions, and the Minister of the Interior has therefore submitted to this House legislative proposals for the publication of the conventions after the signing. I ask this House to give its consent to ratifying the conventions and concluding them. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-12-08-46	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, The speeches will now be followed by the speeches by the representatives, including the keynote speakers. First, I give the floor to Mrs Mónika Dunai, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group. Here you go, Congresswoman.
u2016-12-08-47	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, The Fidesz Group supports the ratification of all four laws. On 14 December 2009, the Parliament adopted the 2009 CLV on the protection of classified information. Law. [[11.40]] The new legislation in force from 1 April 2010 has fundamentally codified the structure of the protection of classified information in Hungary. It has created a single legal and institutional system for the protection of classified information and has also complied with our most important legal harmonisation obligations. However, with the entry into force of the law, it also established the necessary legal bases for the conclusion and application of bilateral secret protection agreements, so that it could begin to eliminate the previous significant failure of our country to do so. In 2016, several agreements were signed this year. As the Secretary of State mentioned, on 22 January the signing of the Convention on the Exchange and Mutual Protection of classified information between the Republic of Slovenia, the Republic of Croatia, Montenegro on 6 October; between the Government of Hungary and Spain on 15 July 2016, and on 7 September 2016 between the Government of Hungary and the Government of the Russian Federation, which was authorised by a Government Decision authorising the final determination of the text of the Convention on the Exchange and Mutual Protection of classified information between the Government of Hungary and the four States. Due to the implementation of the law, the fulfilment of Hungary's international commitments and the need to cooperate more closely with the exchange and mutual protection of classified information, we consider it appropriate to conclude these treaties and ratify them. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-12-08-48	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. The lead speaker of the MSZP Group is Mr Attila Mesterházy. Here you go, Congressman.
u2016-12-08-49	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, As Mr State Secretary said, in 2009, the House adopted by a large majority the Act on the Protection of Classified Data, which has indeed fundamentally codified the structure of the protection of classified information in Hungary and also authorised the conclusion of bilateral international confidentiality agreements. Hungary has already concluded several of these bilateral agreements, including with Slovakia, Poland, the Czech Republic and many other countries. These agreements include the Hungarian-Croatian, Hungarian-Russian, Hungarian-Montenegro and Hungarian-Spanish secret-protection agreements, which, in its structure and content, follow the international treaties already concluded on this subject. For this reason, the MSZP supports bilateral international agreements based on a secret law adopted by consensus in 2009 allowing the safe handling and exchange of classified information. Thank you very much.
u2016-12-08-50	Thank you very much, Congressman. The lead speaker of the Jobbik Group is Mr Adam Mirkóczki. Here you go.
u2016-12-08-51	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, I would like to say very briefly that, of course, the goal is absolutely supportive, it is important, but every agreement is worth as much as it is respected. What am I thinking here in the first place? Specifically, it is a very specific area. Qualified information, state secrets, is basically based on national interests, and this is the limit to all such international conventions. While there are common points and common objectives, it can be seen that it does not work, even among the Member States of the European Union, if appropriate, let us just think about the assassinations in Brussels, when the Belgian authorities also received, in the form of such classified information, the reports, the data and the information which have all confirmed what is being done in Belgium and nothing has happened. Of course, in economic security or in financial matters, it is much more important that it is not certain that, where appropriate, the parties will fully comply with bilateral or otherwise concluded agreements, since the interests of the nation state are already particularly sensitive. Therefore, not everyone does what they may be required by a contract. Of course, my experience in the last six years, in my work in the National Security Committee, is that the Hungarian authorities act in an absolutely correct manner with our international allies or partners, we do not abuse certain information, as I would like to emphasise in the first place that these can not only be used, but also abused. However, we have seen several times that, at the expense of Hungary, Croatia has been abused and is now affected. Think of the problems behind the MOL-INA case and the incorrect flow of information and incorrect administrative cooperation, so, of course, if we can eliminate them, then it's worth it. But in addition to supporting and important, I would like to express, for the sake of the protocol, that we are also skeptical about this, because the security situation in the world and in Europe justifies the ever-increasing degree of cooperation, the creation of ever-increasing partnership of trust, but we see that even through common problems, we cannot actually establish cooperation in everyday practice, such as the fight against terrorism or the fight against organised crime, as we can see that information flows are frozen here because of interests based on national funds. Therefore, we obviously welcome this initiative and this proposal, but we continue to say that obviously the Hungarian State Department and the Hungarian Government do not have the right to influence our partners properly, but it would be good for others to understand that there are fundamental security policy objectives here that go far beyond the interests of the nation state. But for now, at the end of 2016 we see that it is still not working properly, and I hope that this will change. The Jobbik will support it. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2016-12-08-52	Thank you very much, Congressman. Ladies and gentlemen, This brings us to the end of the keynote speeches. I am now asking my fellow Members if anyone wishes to speak in the debate. [[No signal.]] I don't see any contact. The joint general debate is closed. I will ask Mr Tibor Pogácsás, State Secretary, if he wishes to respond to what has been said in the debate. [[Tibor Scones: No.]] He doesn't want to. Ladies and gentlemen, The amendment proposals can be submitted by 16:00 today. We now have a general debate on the proposal for a decision on the need to stop changing hours until closure. The submission submitted by Lajos Kepli and István Szávay, our better colleagues, is H/12569. On the parliamentary IT network, it is available to all of them. First, I give the floor to Mr Lajos Kepli, the rapporteur on the agenda, within a 30-minute time frame. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2016-12-08-53	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I promise you, I will not abuse the time of my fellow Members, all the more so, as, unfortunately, Parliament's debates have been rather empty not only in terms of numbers but also in content towards the end of the session. This proposal was taken by opposition to the Parliament, which was unanimously supported by the Parliament's Economic Committee to be on the agenda, and thanks to the members of the Economic Committee, who made it possible to talk about this issue, which I believe is very important and which concerns all members of society. In the European Union, as is known, since the 1970s, the two-year, winter- and summer-time shifts have been used in most countries. It was last introduced in Hungary in 1980 and has been used unchanged since then. Well, no one has examined it in Hungary since then, at least we have no knowledge that at Parliament level it has been suggested whether there is any point in this twice a year process - which we call a clock change - to burden the Hungarian people with this. Everyone experiences that in the fall, when an extra hour is added to our sun, and in the spring, when it is lost an hour, it takes weeks before the biorhythm of our body is normalized and the order of nature is restored. [[11.50]] Beyond its health effects, of course, there are many other effects. Originally, because this measure was introduced, it was primarily due to reasons for energy use and energy savings, saying that we can save a lot of money in electricity use by introducing summer time. The Hungarian electricity system manager, MAVIR, annually evaluates the extent of the savings, the amount of electricity savings, and it is always said that when the clock changes in spring and autumn, it is said in various media that we save the annual electricity consumption of a medium-sized city by changing the clock. Yes, but it has also been said, last time on behalf of the spokesperson for the electricity system operator, that this savings only occur during the summer period. This summer period is the time calculation that was created, so to speak, artificially, since the winter was the time zone or time calculation typical of Hungary before the time conversion was introduced. Nevertheless, Jobbik says in its resolution proposal that summer time should be kept and finalized, as it fits better with people's natural biorhythm, that if it gets dark during the winter an hour later in the day, the sun will go down an hour later. Of course, the same could be done with a change of time zone, but here is the emphasis in our proposal on the elimination of the twice a year, in our opinion, unnecessary macer, which is called a clock change, and the impact of which, by the way, on human health is illustrated by the research that, in these days after the clock shift, the number of car accidents, traffic accidents, or the symptoms of people suffering from cardiovascular complaints are getting worse, they are not sleeping well, properly, people are not resting themselves. This, of course, has an economic impact if their working capacity deteriorates and there is a general disturbance in their health. How much this loss is, it can be described as another research, that when we push an hour into our day in the fall, and when we take this hour in the spring, it will be dark overnight so much later, or so much sooner than a month suddenly out of our lives. A month ahead or we'll jump back in time. So, in Hungarian, in autumn, at the time of the fall clock conversion, it becomes dark overnight, much earlier than the natural shortening of the days in a month, and in spring it becomes darker. This is why the natural biorhythm of the organism cannot recover for weeks, and although many feel that this is not a problem for us, the body does not recover, and collects these ordeals every year - in quotes - in the long term, even in the form of diseases. Returning to energy savings, this annual consumption of the average Hungarian city represents a maximum one-day electricity consumption for the whole of Hungary. I say that, at the most, since the measure was introduced, electricity usage patterns have changed significantly in Hungary, because while public lighting may have been a major factor in energy use at the time, it is now only a minor part of energy use. And while the public lights used to have a time switch and were switched on or off at night, at dawn, at dusk, recently, the newer types, in particular, perceive the change of light, so it really doesn't depend on changing the clock when the street lights turn on or when they turn off. So that reason does not necessarily exist anymore. There has been a great deal of technical progress in recent years. In households, air conditioners are also the biggest consumption in the summer, and it also depends on the temperature change when the appliance turns on or off - the external temperature is, of course, a big part in this - and it is not adapted to changing the clock. It is therefore worth reviewing, and the European Union will do so every five years, to review the directive which includes that all EU Member States, currently all Member States of the European Union, applying the clock shift, should do so in a coordinated manner in the autumn and in the spring. And related economic and other surveys have been carried out, which have shown, even in the 2007 survey, that energy savings are extremely close to zero, with a total energy saving of 0,01 per cent for the European Union. Obviously, this is different in the southern countries than in, say, the northern countries, and also in the east and the west. Hungary is in a special situation because it is located on the eastern border of this Greenwich plus a time zone, and it is always the countries in the eastern part of the time zone that are less able to adapt properly to the given time zone. For as long as, say, on the western end, in the western European states, sunrise and sunset are completely different during the same period as in Hungary, they are much better adapted to the natural rhythm of people's life. With us, at the eastern end of this time zone, this does not necessarily adapt to the rhythms of life that people have become accustomed to over the centuries, or to the requirements of today's times. That is why the Jobbik Movement for Hungary thought, adapting slightly to the time of the fall shift, that we would submit this proposal for a resolution and that we would ask the Parliament to reject party political considerations when considering and discussing this proposal, since it is obviously not a party political issue. In this respect, it doesn't matter that Jobbik put it up. It is our initiative, of course, and we are very proud to do so, but we would like to see a proposal for a decision at the end of this. Our basic proposal for a decision, which contains these conditions that I have said, namely the abolition of the clock shift and the retention of the summer time, is the basic proposal, to which we welcome, of course, any constructive amendment, whether by government parties or by other opposition parties. After all, our goal is to solve this problem in the long term for the benefit of the Hungarian people, and to have a consensus in this Parliament as well as it is in society, because according to surveys, at least 80 percent of Hungarians would remove this measure that seems unnecessary and is a real burden for many, and two thirds of those who call for abolition would also insist on the calculation of summer time. So it seems to be converging with the will of society. By the way, we submitted this proposal before the publication of the survey, so it cannot be said that we would have sat on the results of such a popular public opinion poll, because the order was reversed, but it is very good to demonstrate that there is indeed a valid basis for this proposal for a decision. Since the submission, we have heard various statements from the pro-government representatives, from the fully supportive to the rather skeptical comment. The actual government position, I hope, will now be known by the Secretary of State of Aradski. So far, we do not have such a position or information as to whether the government is positive or negative in relation to this initiative. Before we know this position, I would like to say once again that we are flexible with regard to our proposal for a decision, if the amendments tabled are also intended to avoid this measure which is otherwise objectionable to us and do not have to change the clocks twice a year in Hungary from next year or later. Of course, initiatives in other countries such as Belgium, Italy, Slovenia have already delivered an opinion on the maintenance of summer time in 2007, when the Commission reviewed the Directive and submitted the views of the Member States. Unfortunately, Hungary had not yet made any comments on this Commission question, which had arrived for the Member States. [[12.00]] We have seen that outside the European Union, Ukraine, Belarus, Russia, several other countries have made this decision to abolish the clock change, similar initiatives have been taken in other countries around the world. The aim, of course, would be at European Union level, and it is important to talk about it in order to reach a single decision in the longer term. Even at Brussels, EU level, if countries that want to get rid of this clock shift and the change of time twice a year would act in a uniform manner and would be able to do so in a coordinated manner. But, of course, we continue to maintain our view that every state, EU Member State and other State has a fundamental right to determine which one wishes to belong to, join, and apply the clock shift twice a year. We look forward to the Government's position on this and, of course, the position of the other parliamentary groups. We will try to answer any questions that may arise during this debate. Of course, maintaining the summer time would mean that at least one more hour of switching should take place in Hungary, as winter time is currently taking place, and we should be able to reset it for the summer, and then we could eliminate the institution of the clock conversion. That is all I wanted to say in my speech by the author, and my fellow Member will address other aspects of this issue in his speech, as well as any questions that may arise, and I will be very happy to answer during the debate, and even in the national closing. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2016-12-08-54	Thank you very much, Congressman. I will ask Mr András Aradski, State Secretary, if he wishes to speak in the debate. [[For signal:]] Here you go, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor.
u2016-12-08-55	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, According to the parliamentary decision proposal submitted by you on 17 October 2016, in order to achieve cost-effective production and improve the mental health of the population, the Parliament would invite the Government to draw up proposals or proposals in order to abolish the clock conversion in winter-summer time in Hungary and to use the calculation method in the future according to summer time. Allow me, Congressman and Honourable House, to explain the legal conditions and the practical effects of the clock shift that have been identified so far. The clock conversion in Hungary is on the application of summer time 39/1996. It is provided for by a government decree to comply with Directive 2000/84/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council on summer time provisions. The aim of the Directive is to standardise for all Member States the date and hour of the start and end of summer time in order to ensure the proper functioning of the EU internal market, as long-term planning is necessary for the functioning of certain sectors. It follows that the change of watch is essentially an economic policy issue, thus affecting the Ministry of National Economy and the powers of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Trade within the Government. From an energy point of view, according to our data, by changing the clock Hungary saves about 100-120 thousand megawatts of electricity per year, which corresponds to the annual consumption of a medium Hungarian city, the annual needs of nearly 30-40 thousand households. Of course, these figures are changing, as Mr President has said, this is largely dependent on the content, time and extent of consumption. Hungary's timetable for public transport is significantly influenced by the structure of the neighbouring countries, especially by rail. The elimination of the clock conversion in Hungary, if not done at almost the same time, can cause problems in the transport sector from the neighbouring countries, especially Austria and Slovakia. Such a step affects the system of the domestic timetable and the connections of foreign scheduled services passing through our country, given that international trains would not operate in the same time frame during the year, so the organisation of connections would also cause difficulties for a number of flights. The elimination of the clock shift may be difficult for all tourists, travellers and even official delegations who are currently coming to Hungary from countries in the same time zone as our country, and therefore require greater attention from the point of view of travel organisation. On the other hand, parts of the intention to promote change might also have a positive impact on tourism, while outdoor programmes adapted to the duration of natural light also provide opportunities for longer, active recreation, recreation, sport and culture. As regards infocommunication technologies and systems, the shift in winter-summer time is generally not a technical problem. From an IT point of view, modern systems may also be able to address the potential problem of ending the changeover. The current time shift method is based on eliminating and minimising the difference between the daily time band of natural light - which in Hungary, mentioning two extreme cases, in winter between 7:30 a.m. and 3:55 p.m., and in summer between 4:45 p.m. and 8:45 p.m. - and the average wake-up time between 7:00 a.m. and 10:00 a.m. So we need to eliminate or minimise the difference between these two time bands. The more time bands, natural light, and average waking time coincide, the less artificial light and energy we use. The maximum daily duration of natural light is basically between two extremes, which in winter is 8.5 hours, until summer it means almost 16 hours, almost double that for us. In addition to the aspects cited above, the removal of the clock shift is also affected by the mental and health status of the population and the functioning of the national economy as a whole, as suggested by the Member, and is not disputed by anyone, which really requires a comprehensive examination, assessment and analysis of its physiological effects, which are still ongoing. In view of this, I cannot say a government position here today in favour of yes or no, but we will say this at a later stage in the parliamentary procedure, after an analysis of the dilemmas presented. I think that the debate can be useful in order to enable the Parliament to decide on this issue, considering all the circumstances and possible effects, the consequences of which, of course, will be borne by the government and will be fulfilled if the decision is to go on this path - as I have just said, pro and versus arguments - and we believe that this matter must be handled very carefully and carefully. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-12-08-56	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Now we're going to hear the speeches from the lead speaker. I give the floor first from the Fidesz Group to Mr Sándor Bodó, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group. Here you go.
u2016-12-08-57	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Mr. Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, I thank my fellow Members very much for this proposal, and I really agree with the fact that it is not a party policy issue. [[12.10]] It is important to emphasise this, and I call for our comments to be assessed accordingly. I think maybe there's no family, there's no one in the system of conversation who doesn't have the phrase that we're meeting at a clock change, old or new time, I don't know if we need to set the clock forward or back. Indeed, this is part of the Hungarian everyday life twice a year, and, as has been said, it completely divides the population. Some say that it is a simple technical operation for him to convert that particular device; and there are some, I think, especially older ones, who suffer for weeks, months, and obviously often talk about it to their environment. As a large percentage of Hungarians are concerned and interested in this subject, it is obvious that professional research has been carried out in this respect, and Mr President has already mentioned this in part, and it is indeed true that four out of five people would otherwise abolish it and oppose the changing of the clock. It is also interesting that two thirds of the opponents' camp are devoted to summer time, it is not such a special thing in itself, but 23 percent of them would do winter time, and there are real gourmets, about 13 percent of the population, who would support a time zone change, which has also been mentioned in the previous ones. The clock conversion for summer time is not a novel invention, there was already an experiment in Hungary in 1916 and it was even introduced. There was a clear reason for saving energy, and it was obvious that people could work with natural light in production plants and large plants as long as possible. This was also a matter of cost-effectiveness and probably also of work ethic. Otherwise, not only Hungary is struggling with this problem, since there was such an initiative in America, and interestingly, shorter nights were expected to reduce the number of crimes, and more interesting, this was confirmed in those days. Of course, as has been said, there are opponents of summer time. As we mentioned, in many cases it interferes with our biological clock. But I now think that the transformation of the structure of industry, the new technical tools, the operation of air conditioners are all aspects that find these earlier arguments worthy of consideration. Since 1980, the Summer Time system, which has been continuously operating in Hungary, has been attacked by many since its introduction, that is true. Some specific things should be listed as to the advantages, disadvantages and experiences of the two-hour shift each year. The benefits of changing the clock are felt by the workers. In the winter months, a person who goes to work can experience how early it gets dark, how little natural light he gets. In fact, the absurd case may be that he spends almost all the light at work. This is obviously uncomfortable, unpleasant. We all know, because it's almost dark in the middle of December at 4:00 p.m. By changing the clock, however, the days are longer from spring to autumn, we are more in light, besides natural light, there is more opportunities for leisure programs, more time for garden work around the house that is also part of our lives. According to statistics, the number of accidents is significantly reduced by the spring clock shift, obviously because the twilight resulting in worse visual conditions will start later. People stay more outdoors, I have already mentioned, they consume less electricity, and I also think it is important that life-style changes in a positive direction. The Secretary of State mentioned that tourists would prefer to spend, and that, in addition to the longer days, they obviously have more opportunities. There are also a number of drawbacks to changing the clock, which we have also partly affected. Many believe that changing the clock can hardly save energy, which is why it is completely unnecessary. During the transition period, which means that the number of road accidents may increase significantly in those critical days or even in weeks, obviously the organisation needs to adapt to this challenge. Many do not like it because it is considered a waste of time, a waste of effort to convert these devices, watches, different computers, displays, alarms. Of course, we also need to think here that this is not only in our apartment, in our environment, but also in our wider environment, jobs and public areas also have these timers, which need to be changed. Trains are supposed to be late for an hour in the spring, which may be forgiven, but it is not fortunate to have 60 minutes on the train stations during the fall shift. Obviously, passengers are prepared to do so, but anyone who has had the opportunity to spend an hour on a train is not too happy, let's say, in that period. As regards the economic impact, the already mentioned Hungarian Electricity Industry Transfer System Manager Zrt. For years, it has been measuring and analysing the consumption data of the days around the clock changeover. From this, it is known that by changing the clock we save about 100 to 120 thousand megawatts of electricity per year, which is indeed the annual consumption of a medium Hungarian city. The benefits of changing hours can also be seen in the environment, and lower consumption is clearly associated with less emissions of pollutants. Electricity savings typically occur in households, construction sites, longer-term open facilities, service providers or possibly in the decorative lighting of public buildings. Until now, we have talked most about subjective facts, at least I do, but we also need to see the legal environment. Obviously, on such an important issue, the general situation in Europe is covered by both domestic and international legislation, which outlines the scope for manoeuvre. The Hungarian legislative aspect is set out in the 39/1996 Government Decree, and there is obviously also a compliance with an EU directive, which has already been mentioned as a representative. Indeed, the European Directive is so that countries act in a uniform manner within the European Union for economic cooperation on this issue. Indeed, this debate is increasingly moving in the direction that it would be worth examining, even in the whole of Europe. This does not mean that we are getting out of the general debate or the expression of opinion, but that our concrete proposal is indeed to carry out this general debate now, after we look at what domestic and international legal aspects give us room for manoeuvre. Then a decision should be taken accordingly. I would like to thank my fellow Members once again for this proposal. It was not unnecessary, it was indeed a point of substance. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2016-12-08-58	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, The lead speaker of the MSZP Group is Ms Anita Heringes. Here you go, Congresswoman, you have the floor.
u2016-12-08-59	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, We are now looking at a proposal on which a sentence has been made by all the factions so far, namely that party policy must, of course, be put aside. However, we also need to be very careful that this is not a populist idea, and let us not go to populism, because the greater our responsibility is, I think, on this issue. Most EU Member States introduced summer time in the 1970s, while other Member States had used this measure for a long or shorter period of time. The current common rules are laid down in Directive 2000/84/EC of the European Parliament and of the European Economic and Social Committee on summer time provisions. A summary of the Commission of the European Communities showed a positive balance of energy savings of 0,01 and 0,014 per cent in 2007. [[12.20]] The Hungarian party did not participate and did not speak during the summary negotiations. In the past, Belgium, Italy, Slovenia expressed their views on the benefits of summer time in relation to this report. This question is also part of everyday dialogue several times, since many people talk about it, especially at the time of the time of the time shift, because it affects many people's daily lives and not just people's, but also their living things, agriculture. We need to look at this in many ways. Obviously, not only should we look at what we see from the MAVIR data, the 120,000-megawatt electricity savings, but also that this means between 4 and 5 billion forints. We believe that there must be a social dialogue on this issue. As a Member State of the European Union, we must also debate and discuss this issue with the other EU Member States, because it is likely that we should coordinate the position on this issue, because if we think about taking Hungary out of this community when changing digital instruments, then there may be problems, not only in relation to the railway and the timetable, but simply for ordinary people. For example, a smartphone can cause problems, as most smartphones change between summer and winter time by themselves. This could cause hiccups and problems. We also need to consider this area in the field of industry. This is a question that is like cooking fish, everyone knows how to do it, at least everyone thinks they know how to do it, but when it comes to really thinking about it and doing it right, you have to really think about what you put in it, where you look at it. I think it is good that we have this issue in front of Parliament, we need to debate it, we need to engage in social dialogue and we need to make a coordinated decision in this, not only in Hungary, but also in the territory of the Union.
u2016-12-08-60	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. The lead speaker of the Jobbik Group is Mr István Szávay, the notary of the Parliament, who will make his speech on the stand. Here you go, Congressman. We'll wait for him to rise. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2016-12-08-61	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Fellow Members! Mr. Secretary. The proposal for a decision before us, as my fellow Member Lajos Kepli said in his speech, calls on the Government, if adopted, to draw up a bill to abolish the two-time shift in winter-summer time, and in the future, to apply the current summer time calculation throughout Hungary throughout the year. This would be practical - I looked directly at the figures for today - that the sun would have risen on 8 December, or today at 7:18 p.m., only at 8:18 p.m., but not at 15:52 p.m., but at 16:52 p.m., or an hour later. However, in order to avoid misunderstandings, it is also important to point out in parallel that, as we propose in the winter, the present plus one bright hour would continue in the summer, i.e. if we look at the longest day this year, or 23 June in terms of light hours, the sun would continue to rise around 3:45 a.m. on this day, after the adoption of our proposal, and it would rest around 9:45 p.m. on the evening. In winter, therefore, a bright hour would be passed from morning to afternoon, while everything would remain unchanged in summer. My fellow Member, Mr Lajos Kepli, with whom we note this proposal, came up against the widespread belief that the shift to winter time would result in energy savings, as savings data were published many decades ago when the peak electricity consumption of the population was indeed seen in winter. However, since then, this has become much more balanced, for example, as a result of a sharp increase in the number of domestic consumers or the restructuring of working time, and even slightly shifted to summer months due to the spread of climate equipment. Thus, the findings of the application of the two types of time savings on energy are far from clear today. At the same time, a number of surveys show that the elimination of clock shifts and the introduction of fixed summer time would bring overall social benefits and would bring the satisfaction of the majority of the population. Ladies and gentlemen, These surveys show that the broad sections of Hungarian society are opposed to the institution of winter time and would accept the shift of morning sunrise in exchange for an hour more clarity in the afternoon. According to the opinion poll of the Hállás.hu portal on 26 October, for example, on the one hand, about 20 percent of respondents do not know where to turn the alarm, and on the other hand, two thirds are committed to the fixed summer time, while 13 percent, as my fellow Member Bodó quoted, would support the time zone change, i.e. the transition from the current Central European time zone to Eastern Europe. In this survey, half of the respondents reported a loss of biological balance at the time of the clock shift, and most of those over 55 have health problems after the changeover. The fact that the winter early dark is accompanied by discomfort in four out of ten people, while two thirds of the respondents do not even go outdoors after work. The transition to fixed summer time is therefore not only a clear desire from society, but also a biological, psychological necessity in many ways. We are also aware of statistics on the fact that heart attacks, strokes, traffic, workplace and household accidents are more frequent in the five to ten days following clock shifts, and the work performance of intellectuals is noticeably reduced during this period. Although it is undoubtedly not representative, in my preparation for the debate, I have also read the opinions, comments and comments on our proposal in the social media. It is also clear that most people vote in favour of a fixed summer time. One commentator, for example, says that evening light is more lacking than breakfast. It's nice to be home in the light tonight. Keep up the good work, I hope you make it. And someone else complains that in the current situation in the winter, nothing can be done at home. A commentator added that yes, depression, I had a time when everything was wrong from October to November, because it's winter, because it's dark and the rest. While in another opinion, I'm going to work in the morning, and I'm interested in not going in the dark, getting home. According to the calculations of Gábor Herman, an engineer from Székesfehérvár, an old researcher of the subject, the number of early sunrises before 6 o'clock would decrease from 152 days to 140 days, while the number of days on which it is dark before 18 o'clock would decrease from 161 days to 121 days. Thus, the sun would rise less often in the period before 6:00 a.m., which the majority of society had little or no use for, but in return would increase by 12 hours the annual amount of useful bright hours between 6 and 21 hours, which we believe is positive. Dear Parliament, Reading the comments, there were, of course, opponents, such as the gentleman who complained that during his commute to Austria, his watch should be changed daily during the winter season, as our western neighbor will continue to apply winter time. This is true on the one hand, but we on Jobbik are fighting for a country that, in the long term, can provide an attractive perspective for all Hungarians working abroad, who would use their knowledge and diligence to make Hungary flourish. On the other hand, by abolishing winter time, the Romanian and Ukrainian would coordinate our country over time in the winter semester, which would ease the situation of workers coming from or commuting from the eastern direction, which would only have to stop hours on their working days for a period of six months, while at present doing so every working day for the entire year. [[12.30]] Thirdly, in terms of the distribution of sunny hours, our country is its current zone, i.e. the largest loser in Central Europe's GMT+1 zone. The reason for this is that the sun is rising relatively early in winter and summer, while it is resting early. In contrast with the winners, such as France, but even more so with Spain, where the sun rises almost an hour later, but later rests, better adapted to the time and rhythm of the majority of society's lives. This means that at present in Hungary, with the exception of a small, extremely early minority of society, dozens of light hours are wasted on the majority during the year simply because they are too early when they are still asleep. At the same time, I consider Gábor Herman's position that it would be better to move to the GMT+2 time zone in Eastern Europe, which is much better suited to our geographical location. According to Herman's calculations, the number of sunrises before 6:00 a.m., i.e. not being used by the majority, would decrease from 152 days to 54 days, while the number of clear evenings after 20 hours would increase from the current 101 days to 172 days, which would give us an extra 103, 6 hours to 30 to 21 hours, so that the majority's life rate would be better. In a simpler way, today's sunny, bright hours from morning to afternoon and evening would be avoided, which would give the economy, in particular tourism, a further positive opportunity to develop in addition to adapting to the majority's awake time and rhythm of life. It is no coincidence that Greece, which is located on the same length circles as we do, is primarily using GMT+2 in terms of tourism, as opposed to its neighbours, Albania and Macedonia to the north. The idea of changing the time zone while holding the clock change was only important for our proposal to abolish the clock shift, because we still cannot be sure - and in this, Mr Secretary of State's words finally confirmed it, although I did not know when I was prepared - that Fidesz would finally put our present proposal to the vote. The reason why I have brought a similar idea to you now, for a few sentences, is because if the governing parties finally did change their minds, I would have wanted to make a related point in advance. There have been instances of a better proposal being put before this House. Consider, for example, the proposal of the Premier Novak on Communist luxury pensions, but there was no law out of it, because although the general debate was held, Fidesz did not allow the bill to continue. Ladies and gentlemen, Our current proposal therefore aims to bring the most critical, i.e. during the winter period, a sunny, bright hour from morning to afternoon, on which time it would be more useful, by abolishing winter time and changing to a fixed summer time. Most people today not only have to work or go to school in the dark on the shortest winter days, but they often come home in the dark or even in the dark. So they would win an extra bright hour in the afternoon, which they could spend outdoors walking, sports, family programs even after work on weekdays. Our motion will thus satisfy not only social needs, but also the establishment of a better, healthier, more livable time system if adopted. Thank you for listening. I would like to ask you to support our proposal for a resolution with my fellow Member, Mr Lajos Kepli. Thank you. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2016-12-08-62	Thank you very much, Congressman. Ladies and gentlemen, This brings us to the end of the keynote speeches. We now have speeches from Members. I give the floor to Congressman Szabó Szabolcs. Here you go, Congressman.
u2016-12-08-63	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Allow me to speak now as a geographer and not as a politician on this subject, because it is essentially a geographical issue of clock change, a system of time zones, and then comes the related economic circles. On the one hand, it is appropriate to clarify and to explain why, but it is appropriate to clarify that this proposal, if adopted in this way, would mean that we would move to the Eastern European time zone, so it is practically a proposal for a time zone change. Otherwise, I would have preferred it to be made clear by the authors, because then perhaps everyone would have understood better what was behind this. Let's look at the details. In order to understand this whole problem, I have to do a little geography lesson for a few sentences, because most people probably don't know it if someone is listening or watching the broadcast via the Internet. We need to know some basic concepts and some facts about how the system of time zones works on Earth. The way it works is there's a zero longitude to the east and west of which there's a 7.5-7.5 degree band called coordinated world time, UTC. They no longer use the Greenwich time that Congressman Szávay referred to, so this is not GMT, it is UTC. I don't explain the details of how leap seconds should be taken into account, so we haven't used it since the '60s, but in everyday language, they use it as Greenwich time, but it's actually coordinated world time, UTC, it's official. So there's this UTC. And then, from here on in both east and west direction, 15 degrees, as we slide east and west, plus 1 hour, and minus 1 hour, the time zones shift. This is why, for example, where Hungary lies, this band is UTC+1 between 7 degrees 30 minutes and 22 degrees 30 minutes. So this is the kind of Central European time that we belong to. But of course, when you look at the map, what do you see? This time in Central Europe is not used exclusively by the countries that are involved in this, but rather extended, mainly in the western direction. Even Spain uses it, and if we look at the map, what do we see? The westernmost part of Spain is roughly with Ireland at a longitude, which is UTC-1. So he's two hours away, but he's still using UTC+1. This has a very long history, and in the 40s, 50s and 60s there are certain political and economic reasons why this particular Central European time has become very widespread in Europe. That is why, if we look at the map, in fact, apart from Eastern Europe, Portugal, Ireland and the United Kingdom do not use only Central European time, they are in UTC. They tried it, for each country there were a few years when they tried it, but it was so different from their daily routines, starting hours, and the rest, that they finally decided not to stay in this Central European time. So we can establish that Hungary is in UTC+1, also on its eastern edge. By the way, I note in parentheses that anyone on the edge of a time zone is always in trouble because it is never ideal. It's ideal to be in the middle of a time zone, less on the edge, but it's a gift like that, we can't do anything about it, we can't move the country. The next question is, how do the boots get on the table, what's this clock change? The shift occurs because the Earth has a basic astronomical ability: it orbits around the sun, and the other has such a talent that it has an axis twist. So the sun has an apparent annual walk, which means that the length of days and nights changes cyclically. The Secretary of State has already referred to this: in Hungary, the length of the day varies roughly between 8:00 and 15:00. This cannot be specified by the minute, because the twilight period is relatively long in Hungary. As a result, there are marine sunrises and astronomical sunrises and sunrises, but it can be said that the length of the day varies between 8:00 and 15:00. That's where the idea of changing the clock comes from. [[12.40]] They began to think about how it could be in a country about as wide as Hungary, where the length of day-nights varies in a relatively wide spectrum at this year's cyclical rate, but not to an extreme degree, so there is no such thing as day only, and only at night beyond the Arctic Circle, how to adapt the timing to our customs. 'Cause what's the main goal, right? The main goal of number one is to make sure that when we do work, it is clear. It's the most basic thing. The next step is to make it possible to get to work and get home from work in the light or at least in the twilight, and there is a fourth factor to be able to bake bacon outdoors, play football, picnic with children, hiking in the sun during the summer period. That is why we may try to play a little by changing the clock, taking these factors into account, to adjust the walk of the clock to our custom. And here it is very important to note that the base, so there is no such thing in astronomy and geography, just to make sure that everyone understands what I'm saying, normal time is winter, and compared to that, the idea came to convert it to summer. Therefore, there is no point in saying that winter time does not have energy savings. Of course not, because it's normal. Savings are generated in summer, because summer is not normal, we move over there, and there is an explanation for why we are switching. There are counter-opinions as to why it's useless and, say, energy savings. Therefore, what can be read here in the proposal for a decision is a time zone change, combined with the fact that it would otherwise stop changing the clock. Well, let's see what the benefits, the benefits and the consequences of that would be. The result is the easiest thing anyone would experience if we did what Jobbik suggests, then it would be what was actually said, that we would be in UTC+1 all the time, Austria where in UTC+1, sometimes in UTC+2, and Romania, let's say where in UTC+2 and sometimes in UTC+3. So when we cross the border, we should always think that it's summer, it's summer time, or it's winter time, and now I have to set the clock forward or backward. Because we'd be in sync with Austria and Romania. And that is why, as you said, the Secretary of State, this would not be a simple matter from the point of view of scheduling. Because when we talk about changing the clock in Hungary in such a coordinated form, in cooperation with European countries one day, in a time moment twice a year, that, say, affects a piece of fast train, to be more precise, two. It used to be called Dacia Express, I don't know what her name is now, and every time there was a problem, she stood in Békéscsaba for 60 minutes. It touched about this one train. But if we introduce this proposal, there will be constantly scheduling problems at the MÁV, because the weather will be different all day than in Austria for six months, and the weather will be different all day than in Romania for six months. I will be able to congratulate the agenda editors if they can resolve this, so we would put them on a difficult task, so let's admit it. It wouldn't be easy. And then let's look at the pros and cons. Here, my fellow Members have talked a lot about it, and there is no need to specify what the benefit of the summer time is. That's what clock change means, isn't it? Indeed, this 120 gigawattor is practically the only accurately predictable, quantifiable, validated result that the MAVIR - perhaps a professional organization that we all consider acceptable - has placed on the table. Maybe there's no need to argue about that. Then there are all kinds of advantages that can be measured or identified at the principle level, for example, that after work, say, in the summer, it is clear for a longer time, so we can go out for a picnic, bake bacon, and the rest of it, in the evening, say, until 9:00, because considering the twilight, it's more or less bright in the summer. Now let's look at the disadvantages. You know, there's a lot of people who talk about this biorhythm effect. Well, the thing is, concrete research doesn't prove it. I've been trying to find out, I've been talking to a doctor, and it's very uncertain, so for now, I think it's a characteristic way of saying that it has such a very decisive negative effect, it can't be said. The tendency to be depressed has been mentioned, although when it ceased in Russia, they began to say that the depression caused was abolished. So it's also a hard-to-get thing. Can changing the clock cause problems in electronic systems? I'd like to raise the problem of Y2 K: it didn't cause any problems either, so obviously that doesn't cause any problems either. So here's the question of good, but what can we do? Actually, we have three options. Or we will stay in the time zone where we are now, and we will keep the clock shift and such European cooperation. The second is that we switch to a time zone, so we jump to Eastern European time, but we keep the clock shift, and then there's no problem that we're in sync with this country for six months, half a year and another country. And there's a third way we can get our allies, our friends, to stop the clock switch. Which of us has more rationality, I cannot judge of course; my professional opinion is that it would be most useful for us to remain the way we are now. Because it is a tried system that we adapt to, and of course it is true that twice a year there is such an upheaval in people, how unpleasant it is, only if we implement this proposal - for example, I note in brackets - we have to keep setting the clock if we travel abroad, depending on whether we go east or west. On the other hand, I also read the polls of accommodation.hu. They themselves write that this survey is not representative. However, obviously, if we did some representative research out of a few million forints, let's say the government would prepare such an impact study, we would probably have very close data for this, but it may not be worth a numerical reference to a research done using an inappropriate methodology. So, overall, I would just suggest that I understand why the individual parties are supporting this, and I say that I also perceive the social background of this matter. It is possible to talk about this, only then should the problem be raised in such a way that it is a real question and that we give real answers, and do not try to put this proposal in the wrong way, to take this conversation in a slightly different direction. And I'm telling you, the question is whether we should change time zones or stay here in this time zone. And we alone are sure that we can't decide about changing the clock, because there is a European Union directive. It's very clear. And that, for the remaining 40 seconds, I would like to note only a few little things, which have been said here in some of the improperly formulated sentences, which are obviously not what my fellow Members thought, but it is advisable to clarify: the length of days and nights is given, the change of hours does not increase the night, neither reduces or increases the length of the day, nor reduces the length of the day. By fixing the summer time, we do not change the natural laws, but simply the question of how to adapt the clock to our daily habits. This is a very important question, I think. Thank you very much.
u2016-12-08-64	Thank you very much, Congressman. I would like to address Mr Lajos Kepli for a two-minute speech. Here you go, Congressman.
u2016-12-08-65	Thank you very much. I am trying, and I feel that I must react, even during the debate and not in the closing words, as we have often been accustomed to in this Parliament. I would like to start by thanking my fellow Member Szabó Szabolcs for this extremely meaningful and professionally demanding speech. [[12.50]] You're right. In terms of its effects, a change in the time zone is the maintenance of the summer time. By saying that it would be better if this were the current situation, it would remain a state, because it is already an established method, I have doubts. Obviously, new decisions must be made, and sometimes there are risks, and there may indeed be disadvantages if we stop changing the clock, but this is most clearly revealed when this decision is made and applied for a few years, then the obvious benefits and disadvantages of this will be revealed. The other is that my fellow Member, Anita Heringes, mentioned with regard to electricity savings that this can be measured in billions. I agree with that, but on the one hand, MAVIR also always says that this savings will occur during the summer period, and it would obviously not affect this by keeping the summer time. But if we consider that this is about 1 percent of our electricity consumption at the maximum, while the network loss is about 4-5 percent, at least this is the professional data I've heard the last time, some of which is made up of electricity thefts, and if we could eliminate the electricity thefts, we would achieve a much greater economic benefit, much greater savings than the one measure that we can save in connection with the clock change, pro and versus how much we can save or not save. I think that this is not a relevant issue from this point of view. Thank you. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2016-12-08-66	Thank you very much. Mr Szabolcs Szabó also applied for a two-minute speech. Here you go.
u2016-12-08-67	Thank you very much for the floor. On the basis of my fellow Member Kepli's comments, it occurred to me that I forgot to say one thing, because it is very often argued that we should keep the summer time calculation because that is where the profit is generated from the clock shift, so if we fix it, then we are absolutely fine. Let's all think about fixing the summer, then we'll cross UTC+2 into the same time zone as Romania. Then why are the Romanians setting the clock? They're resetting it because no matter what time zone you're in, by changing the clock, I adjust the clock to the length of the days and nights. So it's not the length that's interesting here, it's the width. That is why, despite changing the time zone, the fact remains in itself that, with the change in summer and winter time, the profit remains there, so, regardless of whether we cross UTC+2, this profit will not be lost when time changes.
u2016-12-08-68	Thank you very much, Congressman. I will ask my fellow Members if anyone else wishes to speak in the debate. [[There's no candidate.]] I don't see any contact. The general debate is closed. I would like to ask Mr Lajos Kepli and Mr István Szávay, who will be closing. [[For signal:]] Congressman Lajos Kepli. Here you go, Congressman.
u2016-12-08-69	Thank you very much. I reacted in my two-minute speech, expecting that there would be a further part of the debate, so that was not the case. In any case, I would like to thank each of the speakers for really taking seriously what I said in my speech as rapporteur for the expulsion of party policy from this debate, because, in principle, although it is a matter affecting society as a whole, it is a matter of a more professional sense of life and of well-being. By the way, a lot of people have suggested that when we submitted this presentation, I have also read comments on social media sites, there is a lot to learn from in a positive and negative sense why this issue is so important to Jobbik now, there are much more serious problems in Hungary. I agree with that, there are indeed very serious problems in Hungary right now, but that does not mean that Parliament cannot address other issues. In particular, as a major representative of the people with a question that seems to be important to at least 80 percent of society, and 80 percent of society is unanimous on this issue. We, of course, take the representation of society seriously, so we have brought this proposal in, because we ourselves believe that it is unjustified to continue to maintain this two-year shift. Thank you very much, on behalf of the Secretary of State of Aradski, for the Government's position which is neither negative nor clearly supportive, but in any case, I consider this to be a positive position. And I agree that there is no need to rush into anything, especially because a two-month part-session is now due to take place in Parliament's work, and this issue will be decided at the spring session as soon as possible, when we are almost there again in an hour-shift period, when it will again have an actuality. Hopefully, from a professional point of view, even with an impact study, supported by other studies, the government will be able to come up with a unanimous position, and I very much hope that this will be a supportive position. If we accept the proposal for a decision because there has been little talk here, but it is indeed taking place in such a way that the proposal for a decision empowers the government and asks it to take the necessary measures, because, as Mr State Secretary said, a government decree regulates this issue in Hungary, then the government will have the right to act and the government will have to change or repeal this Government decree. I would also like to thank the other opposition and pro-government speakers for having taken this request into account for the banishment of party policy and, on the other hand, for their substance and merit. It seems to me that everyone seems to think that there is something to be done with this question. Indeed, there is a position in society that says that a time zone must be changed and a clock change must be held, some say that the current situation must be maintained, some say that the clock change should be abolished. Here, in particular, the fact that we are having winter or summer is another professional or even political decision. At the moment, in summing up what has been said in the debate, I believe that our initiative has found a positive response, a positive resonance from the government and the other factions, and the waves of this stone thrown into the lake are now ringing, and hopefully, in spring, in the spring session, they will result in a positive resolution proposal being made here in Parliament. Thank you very much for the constructive cooperation of my fellow Members. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2016-12-08-70	Thank you very much, Congressman. Ladies and gentlemen, The amendment proposals can be submitted by 16:00 today. We now have a general debate on the draft law on the abolition of certain charges and charges relating to administrative administration until closure. The government referral is T/13091. Number 2 is available on the Parliament's IT network. First, I give the floor to Mr Zoltán Kovács, State Secretary of the Prime Minister's Office, author of the item on the agenda, within a 30-minute time frame. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2016-12-08-71	Mr President, Dear fellow Members, We have come to another step through the reform of the Hungarian administration. In order to improve Hungary's competitiveness, we started in 2010 the government work that we continued in 2014 and we are bringing to the House every year new measures on bureaucracy reduction or on the reduction of public debts. The aim has obviously been mentioned several times here in Parliament: simplifying, speeding up the operation of the state and making it cheaper, if any. We want to increase the competitiveness of the economy by strengthening the efficiency and service character of the public administration, as I have already said, and we also want to facilitate citizens' lives on administrative matters. It's a long way to go, it's been a long time for former governments to be in labor. I think that we have already shown results in this, but, of course, this is not over yet. We started with the administration system. We've been remodeling this. The organisation has become more uniform and transparent, since there are clear levels separated, different powers have also been assigned to it, and we have gradually eliminated the parallel administrative activities - and we are removing them today - that have made the work difficult. Thus, the system of regional administration, adjutant, district, county, is now in place, the single customer service is provided by government windows, we have started the system towards flexible administration, and customers have to visit much fewer places of administration, and in the government window system some 1,500 cases can be started today. [[13.00]] Dear fellow Members, Last month, we adopted the third in the series of red tape reduction legislative packages, we touched more than 260 laws, we deregulated 79; I think this was also an important step. The general and sectoral rules will be transformed from one degree to the next. In this sector, we still have a significant task ahead of us, as Ákr is in general legislation in relation to bureaucratic barriers to administration. it will also help with its submission and future entry into force, but sectoral systems will also need to be adapted in the coming period. However, it is not only the time of citizens being wasted by public administration, but also, in a number of cases, citizens, so to say, their money, because they have to pay a levy, they have to pay an administrative service fee, and we believe that in cases involving a large number of citizens, a significant number of citizens, it is also justified to reduce these payment obligations and, where appropriate, to remove them. It was before you last year - and we think it has been proven that this was a successful step on the part of the state - the first state reduction. Think about it, when citizens change their ID on 1 January or the first working day of January, 3-4 thousand at national level, this year it was almost 11 thousand on the first day, because the change of ID was free; many obviously waited for the month of December or the month of November, and did so in January. As a result of the previous public debt reduction, 20 administrative procedures were abolished, 14 of which affected individuals and 6-7 reduced the burden on businesses. Dear fellow Members, there was a result of this, which can be expressed in forints: it has saved some HUF 12 billion on the citizens' side and on the side of businesses, so public revenues have decreased as a result of this measure. This was also preceded by a consultation where some 400 000 people expressed their views on questionnaires, where citizens could say which administrative fees, levies they thought could be reduced or eliminated. In this context, we were able to take into account the interests of taxpayers in the decision-making process, and the result of this was confirmed to them in 2016. I talked about the replacement of the document, which belongs to this, the exchange is no longer payable, the authority procedure of the moral certificate can be requested four times a year free of charge, and these, just a few items, saved citizens HUF 1.5 billion. But thinking of young people, among students, we were able to help young people and their families who studied that the student ID could be requested free of charge; we also created a full exemption from the application for higher education, which also saved families a billion and a half. In the case of businesses, a tax authority certificate has to be requested in many cases, so money has to be paid, and this has become free of charge. The accounting report should also always be carried out and displayed, published, with a fee-free saving of around HUF 2 billion for businesses. We believe that for a large number of citizens, this savings of a few billion forints was a burden reduction, the state could afford it, because the economy is improving, the economy is readjusted, the government has corrected economic issues, and thus, by eliminating levies and administrative service charges and removing administrative burdens, we have been able to significantly help citizens' large masses. [[Dr. Lajos Szűcs in the notary seat will be replaced by Attila Gelencsér.]] Dear fellow Members, Mr President, In order to take account of the citizens' proposals, some 250 000 people have also expressed their views on the further steps to be taken to achieve an acceptable social policy or economic policy objective if they fall or disappear. As a result, when we evaluated the proposals during the autumn, the charges related to company proceedings are the primary burden for businesses - although the company procedure is not in a narrow sense a public administration, but we believe that it can be included in the public debt reduction - for private individuals, the property registration would have reduced the financial impact of the property registration with the ownership card and various official certificates: birth certificates, the certificate required to apply for the CSOK, and the official certificate on the basis of these surveys. As regards the registration of motor vehicles, a number of proposals have also come before us, but we have taken this out of the loop, because the State believes that, in consultation with a number of civil society organisations, it will bring a complex package to the House, so this proposal is not included, this subject is not included in the proposal. Taking all this into account, we are repeatedly proposing the termination of the fees for twenty official procedures, which, if adopted, will make administration cheaper for specific social groups or, where appropriate, for all clients in one area of life. The target groups for these measures may be important to list: in some cases, people over 65 years of age, minors, people seeking a family home allowance, landowners; for example, all individuals may be asked to ask for a titled ownership form in the consultation, which means an unconfirmed electronic version, twice a year. In this way, individuals can be saved more than HUF 400 million, and companies will be granted some 1.2-1,3 billion exemptions in the form of company formation, in line with the consultation and requests. Accordingly, in the case of the establishment of a company, a partnership, a public supply company and an individual company, the registration procedure fee and the related disclosure cost compensation would be abolished by this proposal. Dear fellow Members, Based on the results of the 2016 and 2017 proposals, around 14 billion remain in the population, businesses. I think that this is an important step in the context of the reduction of public debt, and cutting red tape itself and reducing it, together with it, can bring forward a substantial change for businesses and citizens, improving the competitiveness of businesses, thereby improving the country's competitiveness. I call on the support of all my fellow Members in this matter to continue with the reduction of public debt and the improvement of competitiveness in the framework of bureaucracy. Thank you for your attention and your support. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-12-08-72	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, The speeches will now be followed by the speeches by the representatives, including the keynote speakers. The lead speaker of the Fidesz Group is Mrs Mónika Dunai. Congresswoman, you have the floor.
u2016-12-08-73	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, I am happy to comply with my obligations as a representative of the Fidesz Group when I can speak as a lead speaker on the T/13091. on a proposal for a law on the abolition of certain charges and charges relating to administrative administration. [[13.10]] Ladies and gentlemen, We Hungarians could get used to it before the change of regime and under socialist governments - because we were used to it - that the fees and fees payable to the US and the US on various titles increased year after year, of course, together with our administrative burdens. At such a time, the citizen who handled his affairs could rightly feel that the state would seize every excuse to take his forints out of his pocket. It's like the activity was deliberately punished by that system. Plus, he kept pushing people towards passivity. That was a very big mistake. After 2010, the Orbán government undertook no less than to finally break this post-communist approach. And the most important tool for changing paradigms has been seen and seen to this day in changing the state's operation. We believe that the state must serve its citizens through its administration, making it easier and not difficult for them to live. That is why we have also established a definition of a good state to provide the necessary guidance. In particular, the state can be considered to be good at serving the needs of individuals, communities and businesses in the most appropriate way for the benefit and within the framework of the common good. We knew that monthly overhead costs were a disproportionately high burden on people. The burden of the socialists has grown to an embarrassing extent in their daily lives. All they could falsely promise was that there would be no gas price increase, but they couldn't even keep that promise like so many of their other promises. By contrast, the Orbán government has significantly reduced the prices of water, electricity and gas. Instead of privatisation, he founded the National Public Service Provider and now has to defend permanently against Brussels the results of the reduction of the rent, where the lobbying power of multinational companies is still dictated instead of the interests of the people. In addition to the reduction of the rent, the government has also announced a bureaucracy reduction programme, if you will, this is the reduction of the government's rent, this is the reduction of the state's rent. The law adopted last year saved nearly HUF 12 billion in 2016 by abolishing the fees for several official proceedings by the Parliament. Ladies and gentlemen, Since the existence of Fidesz, he has believed that citizens should be approached not only every four years, but also during the elections. The institution of the consultation that the opposition has been constantly attacking serves nothing but to find out what the people's views are on a particular issue. Government, honourable Members, which ignores the will of its citizens, is doomed to failure. In fact, this practice has also caused the crisis of the elite in Western Europe. In Hungary, the public consultation on bureaucracy lasted from 11 July 2016 to 20 August 2016, and during this period a total of 244 830 questionnaires were submitted by citizens. A total of 142 589 questionnaires were completed, excluding questionnaires for administrative bureaucracy reduction, in relation to the reduction or exemption of fees for official procedures. Of which 102 799 pieces, or 70 percent of the questionnaires, affected the burden of citizens and 39 790 pieces, i.e. 30 percent, on the burden of businesses. The legislative amendments were prepared taking into account proposals from citizens and businesses as well as data from official procedures affecting citizens and businesses. The purpose of the bill before us is therefore to abolish certain charges and administrative service charges payable by administrative authorities in order to reduce the administrative burden on citizens and businesses. From 1 March 2017, the bill proposes to terminate the fee for another 20 official procedures. Ladies and gentlemen, First of all, I would like to point out that the issue of certain official certificates required to apply for the CSOK will be free of charge for citizens, and that the fees related to certain construction procedures will also be abolished. It is also linked to the State aid for housing purposes that the issue of a health insurance certificate certifying the existence of an insured person's legal status will also be exempt from tax. It is therefore clear and clear that the political goal is to help families to get home by all means, whether it is financial support or the removal of bureaucratic obstacles or both at the same time. I will also include the change in which citizens are exempted from the administrative service fee to be paid twice a year for the request for a non-certified copy of ownership documents supplied as electronic documents. In addition to family-friendly measures, this bill aims at facilitating the lives of entrepreneurs. As a result of this amendment, the issue of the official certificate with the data contained in the register of self-employed persons will be exempt from duty. The exemption of the court procedure for registration of Kft., the individual company, the public supply company and the deposit company is aimed at facilitating the formation of these forms of company. In the case of registration of the same forms of company, in addition to the levy on the court-martial procedure, the publication fee shall be abolished. Overall, the bill is based on citizens' signals, strengthens the service character of the Hungarian public administration, and makes the customer-friendly approach even more clear. The motion tabled will increase the strength and competitiveness of the Hungarian economy, bearing in mind the interests of families and businesses, by reducing the administrative burden, abolishing the various charges. Ladies and gentlemen, The Fidesz Group recommends to the Honourable Parliament that the bill submitted be adopted, because it monitors and serves the interests of Hungarian citizens. Thank you very much.
u2016-12-08-74	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. The lead speaker of the MSZP Group is Ms Anita Heringes. Here you go, Congresswoman, you have the floor.
u2016-12-08-75	Thank you very much for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear House, I cannot leave the words spoken without saying the words, I am always deeply disappointed when my fellow conservative Christian Members use the debate of a bill for party political propaganda, reviling one another and on your side for a good communism. I think that's quite a smile when I'm sitting across from you. But I hope that the next year will bring a different style and a different atmosphere between the walls of Parliament, because I think that much of the Hungarian citizens do not want to hear this, but how we can revile each other's prognosis, read ours out of paper and insult each other in the debate of any law. Citizens would like to know which proposals we support, which we do not support, which we think are the same and that they will be able to decide, honourable Members, which proposals are better for them and which proposals they prefer to vote for. Whether the minimum wage should be taxed or not taxed, we think about such fundamental issues with the governing party, and on these very issues, people will have to decide who is more sympathetic to them, because the reason why people are not looking at speeches with political content, either via the Internet, is because they are not interested in listening to party propaganda or listening to how we can insult each other. [[13.20]] I very much hope that this style will be changed by the majority of governments as of next year. And then the proposal. Since the proposal is, by the way, hardly a fully comprehensive review of fees and charges, it is undoubtedly implementing the abolition of a large number of small and annoying levies and charges, which mainly concerns two exposed groups, young people and the elderly, since it is obvious to all of us that these are the two groups most exposed and most sensitive to all such tax issues. From the point of view of young people and the elderly, they are the ones who have the least financial opportunity to pay taxes, find out and have the right information. For this reason, the MSZP will support this proposal to reduce burdens, since it supports any proposal that improves and reduces the livelihood of small people. At the same time, we think that we should put in place a comprehensive proposal on levies, where we still have a number of areas to reach. We therefore tabled an amendment. Sándor Szabó was my fellow Member who was trying to draw the government's attention to a tax issue. 147/1992 on the registration and reporting of property owned by the municipality. a government decree sets out the rules for the management of the property register. This Regulation also provides, inter alia, that the data sheet of the property must be the same as that of the real estate register. It is reasonable that knowledge of the data in the real estate register is essential for the proper registration of municipal property. In the case of municipalities, the request for a non-certified copy of the electronic document should be made free of charge once a year. This is what my fellow Member proposes in his amendment. I hope that you will be able to discuss and support my fellow Member's amendment, because I think it is also one of the small but annoying levies. Thank you very much, the MSZP will support this proposal.
u2016-12-08-76	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. The lead speaker of the Jobbik Group is Mr István Szávay, Member of the Parliament. Here you go. You have the floor.
u2016-12-08-77	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, My fellow Member! Mr. Secretary. Of course, Jobbik welcomes all initiatives and proposals aimed at reducing the burden on citizens and the population, whether it be a tax reduction or, in this case, the abolition of levies and charges. For every step that reduces the burden on citizens is important, whether it is a financial burden or an administrative burden, and I would like to go in this direction in a number of ways. However, we are also obliged to indicate that, in most cases, these are beauty patches, together with the fact that, of course, there are some serious and more serious cases, such as the levy on birth certificates, the application for a passport for the elderly, and the registration fee for Hungarian citizens living outside the territory of Hungary. However, we do not see this proposal sufficiently comprehensive. You were a congresswoman or perhaps a Secretary of State, and I am sorry, you said that this is the manyth package of proposals on cutting red tape, reducing the administrative and tax burden. However, we have seen quite a lot of these over the last 25 years, especially the Gyurcsány government - I am sorry for the parallel with my fellow Members with Fidesz, but mainly with the government - that all kinds of plans were made, and that all sorts of committees stood up from a good state and good governance and state reform, and what I know, and then most of them didn't come true, or something happened. Even though I will not reveal a secret, Jobbik will support this proposal, but I would like to point out that we, or in our view, need a much more comprehensive reduction in bureaucracy. On the basis of a number of other aspects, it should be examined whether the Hungarian state administration is working well. I fully agree with Mrs Dunai, who has whipped the previous governments for a long time, but in this case, it is also possible to say about the performance of her own government, how much people hate the Hungarian state, which is constantly fighting them, which is constantly trying to pull them down, has unnecessary administrative burdens on them, and often requires quite simply pointless administrative obligations. So we see that this proposal in itself is not bad, what you have brought here, it is a bit like the issue of foreign currency credit, you know, fellow Members. Everything you have brought here, we have always supported, because it has always shown a little further ahead, or perhaps it has helped one or two thousand or a hundred families, but you still owe to the Hungarian society to come up with a package of proposals to save foreign exchange creditors. We have a bit of a similar feeling here. There are things in this proposal that we can wholeheartedly and sincerely support, but we feel this is very little, for example, in many cases because it is not certain that the abolition of the levy itself is always the solution when we are dealing with an unnecessary legislative act. So it's great that we cancel a levy, but at the same time we're not looking at whether or not that administrative act related to the levy is necessary in the form in which we solve it, for example through personal participation, and whether there is no way to direct as many things as possible towards electronic administration, because this would be the 21st. Company, my fellow Members. There are plenty of international examples in this matter. What I do miss very much, Mr Secretary of State, is that when we talk about cutting red tape and reducing administrative burdens and charges, you are far from looking at Western European examples as hard as when you put together a electoral law or a media law, in which you put examples of Western Europe that can be individually undertaken and parallels, and then put this together into a completely insufferable and unacceptable law on the rights of vote. If you have an apparatus, and it is obvious that you have international examples in such cases, then why we do not see that a military of ministry officials is working to see how these countries work, how these states operate, how good examples are in terms of administration, administration, governance or e-government, which could be applied in Hungary. We have collected quite a lot of such examples recently, and we will prepare and make them part of our electoral programme at the right time with a number of such proposals. We have begun to collect these experiences through our better friends, comrades, and fellow members who live and work in Western European countries. In recent years, when I have visited them with my colleagues, whether it is Vienna, Munich, Zurich or Dublin, the Hungarians living locally report why the public administration where they live is more normal in many ways. And let me add one more aspect, that's as important as that. Why they run away from Hungary - a number of other important things, obviously the economic aspects are the most important - it often includes the fact that the country is insufferable, the bureaucracy is killing them, they are tired of starting a business in Hungary, whether it is, say, a car repair shop, I know a concrete example that seven or eight different authorities need to obtain all kinds of papers, which, moreover, takes so long to get the last one, the first one will be over and start again. These are indeed the case, my fellow Members, for example, this might be worth dealing with. Compared to that, for example, there is a country in Western Europe, for example, Ireland, where it is the easiest, where you can actually register a business via the Internet and, say, run all the relevant official licensing procedures in a few weeks. I would suggest to you, Mr Secretary of State, fellow Members, that, if you have been able to study Western European examples so diligently, for example, in a electoral law, it is worth looking at how to operate the state more normally and customer-friendlyly in Western Europe. So it's very good to abolish the charges, but in many cases the unnecessary authority problem and macera remain. Or let me give you another specific example. Believe me, my fellow Members, that many Hungarians living abroad would be happy and happy to pay the levy they have to pay now and even several times if they could receive their children's birth certificates at embassies, for example, immediately and in a normal time, and they would not have to wait weeks and months. [[13.30]] The reason why they cannot bring the child home to Hungary many times is because the Hungarian state is quite simply unable to issue a birth certificate to the child in 2-3 months. So it is very good to abolish the levy, but at the same time, let us not leave this problem unchanged, because then we are not ahead of it. With regard to tax returns: this is not the case at the moment, but let me touch on this subject, as we are talking about. For example, in Estonia, where one of the most advanced electronic, e-government systems is the e-government system, most things can be done electronically, such as tax returns and tax returns for individuals in Estonia are prepared by the bank managing the account. My fellow Members, they prepare this instead of citizens, and most of the necessary certificates can be submitted on the Internet, and, of course, the bank costs are extremely small, and they obviously encourage people to use bank accounts, which also reduces the black economy. Another example, and I'm a little squirming here, but I've written down a few examples that I'd like to bring to you, and some of them we've talked about before. On many occasions, I have criticised the incomprehensible and unnecessary administrative burden on civil society organisations, and I have said this quite a lot in recent years. There was a bill before us recently, and I can tell you something like the one before us, but maybe if we hadn't talked about it so much in the last six months, we probably wouldn't have gotten this far. There have been some changes in the case about the administrative burden of civil society organisations in the courts, for example, but at the same time we are dealing with this absolutely amazing thing in the 21st century. In the 20th century, if someone wants to apply for public money in Hungary, such as the National Cooperation Fund, e-administration in Hungary means that everyone will submit their papers in electronic form, in the so-called EPER system, electronically record everything, and then print a statement that they will sign and go to the post office to post it. I hope we feel the absurdity of this. The birth certificate has already been mentioned, and another favourite example, it happened not so long ago, but I have obviously asked my fellow Members quickly what a Tajcard looks like in Hungary. Of course, we know many times that the fees are to be paid so that we can pay the wages of those who carry out the work related to these official acts. This raises serious questions, of course, as to whether there is any need for so many people in the Hungarian government; and here Minister Lazarus has, however, had a very strong opinion or words about this in recent months. But it is undoubtedly true that, in many cases, a levy is actually due to the fact that we are able to raise the wages of ladies and gentlemen sitting there unnecessarily, or rather of ladies, because of issues that can be dealt with in the form of electronic administration. It seems to be a bit of socialist public employment, but this is still part of the 21st century. In the century. There is the E111 card, the essence of which is that I can demonstrate in the European Union that I am entitled to the most basic healthcare. This E111 card, my fellow Members, is exactly the same size as the ID card in Hungary or the credit card or anything else that fits nicely in the wallet. As a citizen of the European Union, this can be replaced free of charge, I can put it in my wallet with the other papers, this card contains my name, my date of birth, maybe my mother's name, but I'm not even sure about it, or the farmhouse number itself; it can be replaced for free. At the same time, this card cannot be used in Hungary, and I can't prove my own farm number, so I need to replace a separate farm card in Hungary, which is twice as large, and it doesn't happen to fit in my wallet. By the way, my name, date of birth and my farm number is on it, and for this, by the way, I don't know how many hundred forints you have to pay for, and completely meaningless, instead of even accepting the other card, or if it's free, it should be that, too, if you have to pay for it, then you have to, but most obviously nothing else to pay, but only to have the wages for the person who will arrange it for me, so that otherwise I don't need this card, or in principle it wouldn't be necessary. Allow me one more sentence of thought and government intent. I think it is a very good thing that my colleague, Mónika Dunai, has also highlighted here in her speech and welcomed as important that this draft abolishes the levy on CSOK, the claim of the CSOK. My fellow Members, Mr Secretary of State, if you have a truly well-thought-out strategy on how to cut red tape and charges in Hungary, then tell me why this levy was introduced a year ago in relation to the CSOK. I hope it wasn't introduced six months ago so they could drive it out now and tell us how great the government is because it cancels the fees linked to the CSOK. So these are the inconsistencies that make us see that behind this proposal, despite all its well-intentioned eligibility, there is not a large-scale, long-term, well-thought-out government strategy, but only right now, I do not know where they bring a proposal that can otherwise be well communicated. It will obviously affect many people, it is very good from a popularity point of view, but it will leave a lot of questions open, creating the possibility that after a few months they will come up with a similar package again, and, say, in a year's time, they will be able to introduce the levy that will be introduced in three months' time. So we support the proposal, I will say it again, because we can agree with the points that are included in it, but we miss the real government intention behind it and the decision that Hungary is indeed a better governed, XXI. It should be a public administration operating in a century and meeting the needs of citizens significantly more than is currently the case. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2016-12-08-78	Thank you very much, Congressman. We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. Now the two-minute speeches, if there is a need. [[There's no candidate.]] I don't see any contact. A proper speech will come from the Fidesz Group, Mr Tamás László. Here you go, Congressman.
u2016-12-08-79	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, bureaucracy is an ancient institution, state bureaucracy is also, so without it, it is difficult for a state to exist. It is also relatively natural that the citizen sometimes finds it annoying, even giving Shakespeare Hamlet the sentences of being or not being a great monologue about the office's stuffing. I think that there is a lot of truth in these, and here, of course, everyone knows, accepts, you know, the beating of Congressman Savay. We also talk a lot about Murphy's law, the fifth postulate is that things get worse without external influences; elsewhere it is called entropy. I think that this is the first government - unlike what Anita Heringes or István Szávay said - this is the first government to face very firmly the office's ruckus, reducing bureaucracy, because the government's primary objective is to reduce state bureaucracy. The aim is to make administration faster and cheaper for citizens, so Mr. State Secretary and Mónika Dunai mentioned the large-scale consultation in which hundreds of thousands of citizens have submitted their improvements proposals, and the government has, by processing them, evaluated the bill that is currently in front of us, which is actually aimed at abolishing a number of levies and fees. Of course, we are not flawless, and we do not have the Philosopher's Stone in our hands. If the government will examine them and assess the context for this, it will present them later as an improvement proposal. It is worth explaining the most important things to citizens: it will be free of charge, among other things, to issue a certificate of health insurance, which is required to apply for housing support, twice a year. [[13.40]] Congressman Savay whipped this. I have to tell you, this was a new institution for the CSOK. This was introduced in this way, but I welcome the fact that the issue of such a certificate now becomes tax-free. A third is to allow the construction, conversion and elimination of the replacement groundwater well. This also serves to ensure that these groundwater wells are indeed legally established under permits and that the levy is not an obstacle. The issue of an official certificate on the data in the register of self-employed persons also becomes duty-free. Procedure for making a declaration relating to the registration of citizens' personal data and address. Next is the procedure for registering a Hungarian citizen living outside Hungary on request with personal, address and notification address data. Procedure for the notification of the address of notification. Private passport for a person over 65 years of age. The first of these is the registration in the list of judicial experts and the fee for the extension of the field. It's gonna go away. This is intended to make it easier to become an expert, thereby increasing the number of judicial experts. Therefore, it can be seen that the abolition of the levy and the exemption from charges are always for some social purpose. The termination of the fee for the land restructuring procedure for the redistribution and consolidation of land for the purpose of land consolidation facilitates the settlement of problems related to land under the levy law, which can be solved by various land formations, in particular in the case of less-value real estate, for which the fee has so far been an obstacle to the solution. The amendment facilitates the unification of fragmented agricultural land. There's a social goal here too. As a result of the amendment of the Law on Charges and the amendment of the Act on Administrative Service Charges for Certified Property Copy, citizens are exempted from the administrative service fee to be paid twice a year for the request for non-confidential copy of ownership documents provided as electronic documents, facilitating the administration of their real estate affairs. The following is that, in accordance with the amendment of the Law on Charges, the amendment to the Act on Company Disclosure, the Court of Justice, and the winding-up law, the reimbursement of the costs of publication will cease in the event of registration of the limited liability company, the individual company, the public supply company and the deposit company. It is also important to note that all these measures would enter into force not from 1 January next year but from 1 March 2017. Ladies and gentlemen, I believe that the bill represents a major step forward in the cheaper and more efficient administration of our official affairs. Here I refer to Zoltán Magyary, who very precisely defined the relationship between the state and the citizens. He said that people should be given the knowledge and firm trust that the state is strong on the one hand and that the state is theirs on the other. I think that it is about the state's strength that it is capable of self-limiting, and it is also able, if the state of the economy allows it, to waive a lot of levies and many charges that are calculated to amount to between HUF 10 and 20 billion, which citizens and businesses will save by eliminating these charges and charges. It's theirs, or ours, because it's strengthening the service provider, helping state. I therefore call on this House and my fellow Members to vote in favour of the motion tabled. Thank you for your attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2016-12-08-80	Thank you very much, Congressman. I will ask my fellow Members if anyone else wishes to speak in the debate. [[No one's reporting.]] I do not see an application; the general debate is closed. I will ask Mr Zoltán Kovács, State Secretary, if he wishes to respond to what has been said in the debate. [[Dr. Zoltán Kovács: Yes.]] He wants to answer. Here you go, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor.
u2016-12-08-81	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear fellow Members, In the beginning, perhaps I should make some general remarks. First, I would say to Anita Heringes: where is the field of political battles, if not in Parliament? That's why there's a parliament. Here are the Members who are politicians and have political debates. It could, indeed, be more consolidated from time to time, but you should not throw anything at other parties. Perhaps it was your representative who introduced me to the neighboring faction, or was about to hunt him down when he presented a figurative shot in the direction of the neighboring faction. So don't let it turn out that you're the completely innocent people, while everyone else in this House is behaving badly. As far as the other points are concerned, I think it is right to say that we are progressing gradually in these matters, which we call a reduction in bureaucracy or a reduction in public debt. However, I think, and I would like to address it primarily to my fellow Member, Mr Savay, that it is to be appreciated that we have touched more than 250 laws, where we have simplified procedural issues, we have reduced deadlines by 25 per cent to a number of procedures, so that the procedure itself is shorter. We have introduced an objective deadline that if someone goes beyond this deadline in the course of the administration, there will be compensation or a refund of the levy for the person with whom it happened. This year, 945 such cases occurred during the first half of the year, for example, during the 8-9 million administration. The other is the electronic administration. Perhaps it has been said several times in Parliament that there is a digital nation development programme. We also know that the entire broadband internet is not built everywhere in Hungary today, so we could communicate with the public administration via the Internet, but it just doesn't work, because it doesn't exist in around 800 thousand households. But we have set ourselves the goal of removing this deficiency by 2018. There is another part of the electronic administration, if we think so, that is also a cultural, material and age-related issue. That is why we have established a one-stop shop so that we do not have to go from office to office, because anyone who otherwise does not have an electronic opportunity to relate to the public administration can start his case with the one-stop shop in some 1,500 cases if he has one-stop shop. I agree that there is a serious sectoral approach in the state apparatus today, so that the different wallets are not horizontal. Therefore, I agree with the suggestion that the CSOK should not have introduced this levy in the first place. But this appears to be state or portfolio revenue, and it is usually involved in the thinking of sectoral ministries that it is our sector's revenue, and it is not thinking that it is the social policy goal, and I agree with you, to help young people find a home. What is perhaps important to note in this debate is that the strategy for the development of public administration has been completed. This is more than a hundred pages of document, and it is also on the government's website, which sets out the strategic objectives that the government considers important for the electronic administration, where appropriate, between 2014 and 20. Moreover, the European Commission has also approved this document and it is being converted into small change, citing it, in the operational programme for the development of public administration. I was talking about a sectoral approach, and electronic administration was built on a sectoral approach. They developed in an island-like way in different sectors, and they are not linked. The system itself will be faster and more efficient if these sectoral specialised systems can be combined within the framework of the operational programme for public administration development. I agree that we don't have 3-4 I.D.s with state data content. That's why we created the new electronic ID. It contains our tax data, contains our social security identification information, and a number of other data that can be attributed to a card, and can be used by a card reader in the health sector or even in the tax administration. [[13.50]] Besides, we have to help ourselves on this road. The proper communication of this needs to be facilitated and done, and there is something else on the development side. There were two groups. One: in the case of construction, a whole new approach is that the obligation to report is much less than 300 square meters. My fellow Member, Mr Tállai, Secretary of State, the Deputy Minister for Taxation, spoke about the fact that the tax administration itself is creating tax returns that citizens can then control themselves. So in many cases, my fellow Member is banging open gates in relation to what has been said here. I think that there is a comprehensive approach, because we have to look at the large number of citizens as a whole and in frequent cases; so if last year's bill, which was passed by Parliament and this year's bill is passed together, then you can see that it has a coherent system. This also includes the establishment of procedures requiring notification by entrepreneurs. Therefore, there is no procedure, it does not need to be requested, but only announces its activities in some 25 cases and can start its business. My apologies, Mr President, thank you for your patience in giving these questions, which are not specifically part of the presentation, but are also addressed in the speeches. The government has taken significant steps in this area, which is why it had to be said in response. I wouldn't go into any more details. Thank you very much for the support of the fellow Members and the factions. I think it's an important matter, a step forward. Obviously, it would be better if we could talk about 20 billion and not 2 billion forints, but I think that this too remains in the citizens' pockets and can be spent on something else. This bill, these steps, fit into the line that the government has taken. Thank you very much for the support of the factions, thank you very much, Mr President, for your patience and for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of Fidesz.]]
u2016-12-08-82	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I would like to inform my fellow Members that it is possible to present the amendments by 4 p.m. today. We have reached the end of the discussion of our agendas today. It is now time to speak after the agenda. After the agenda, István Szávay, Member of the Jobbik Group, notary of the Parliament, has applied for a post-scheduled speech:. Should Serbia's ethnic policy be criticised? It's an address. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2016-12-08-83	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear fellow Members, According to press reports before the Hungarian-Serbian government meeting in November, Péter Szijjártó said that if everyone in the Carpathian Basin had done half as much for the Hungarian national communities as Serbia, the Carpathian Basin would be a much happier place today. He added that it is therefore rejected that the EU Member States are trying to slow down Serbia's integration process because they would expect even more from the country in minority matters. Jobbik, like the Foreign Minister, believes that EU enlargement cannot stop and that Serbia's accession must take place in the next five years. This is in the interest of the region, and this is also in the interest of the southern Hungarians. Of course, we also see and are pleased that the relationship between the two countries is improving. But in support of Serbia's accession, we continue to believe that it cannot happen without certain conditions. Together with the above, we find it unacceptable that the leader of Hungarian diplomacy is being upset about criticizing our southern neighbour's ethnic policy. In Jobbik's view, we should rather welcome the fact that the EU, otherwise rather insensitive to national issues, has raised this issue at all. Because let's be honest about the fact that, in addition to recognising the results that are undoubtedly present, there is plenty to be criticised. For example, there is still no mention of the territorial autonomy of the southern Hungarians, which the government always supports on a general basis, let us consider the relevant statements of Zsolt Semjén. Moreover, it is not all about Serbia's unparalleled autonomy for the Serbian community in northern Kosovo in recent years. However, the same Serbia does not realize that it grants all rights to nationalities living in its territory, as the Serbian community in Kosovo has. But it is much sadder that neither Hungary nor the Hungarian Association of Vojvodina, which is also in government in Serbia, are asking for this. Do you really think that Peter Szijjártó cannot be criticized? Who then represents the Hungarian government's true position on autonomy? Minister Szijjártó or Deputy Prime Minister Zsolt Semjén? Unfortunately, the list of criticisms can continue. For example, it would be rather difficult to interpret as a Hungarian-friendly step that Tomislav Nikolic, on his proposal, may soon become a Serbian national holiday on 25 November, the anniversary of the Serbian National Assembly in Novi Sad, which announced the accession of the Southern region to Serbia in 1918. István Pásztor, president of the Hungarian Federation of Vojvodina, participated in this year's event. I am very curious to hear what Minister Szijjártó said about this, who, by the way, rightly and in a manner welcome by us, instructed the employees of Hungarian foreign representations that they cannot attend similar Romanian celebrations on 1 December, saying that on the anniversary of Transylvania we Hungarians have nothing to celebrate. Prime Minister Viktor Orbán also shared this opinion. Of course, Jobbik agrees with this, but then the question arises why this does not apply to a similar national holiday in another successor state. The RMDSZ will be blamed by Fidesz if he celebrates with the Romanians on 1 December, but not with the VMSZ if he parades with Serbs? That seems to be the case at the moment. So far, only Bishop László Tőkés, Fideszes MEP, spoke in the interview published yesterday on the South Hír Hungarian News Portal in South Hír, about the fact that Hungarian leaders in Serbia have no place to attend such festive events. And unfortunately, this has not been the only step of the VMSZ in recent years that can be highly criticised in terms of national advocacy. Perhaps, even with necessity and real politics, it can be justified that they govern with the Serbian Progressive Party, which was founded by the former rather extremist and anti-Hungarian politicians - we look forward to the concrete results of this - but I find it completely unacceptable that the Vojislav Šešelj Chetnik Vojda, recently released from the Hague, also concluded local coalitions with the openly Hungarian-hating Serbian Radical Party, such as Sombor. In view of this, I have yet to mention another major problem of the past period, the migratory pressure on our country and the South. At the direction of Fidesz, VMSZ switched to full campaign operation during the referendum in Hungary, even the Hungarian National Council, which they dominated, adopted a resolution on the participation of all Hungarian citizens in the referendum. In the meantime, however, it seems that the foreign inflow into the South would be ignored, even though it is a fact that Muslim gypsies in Kosmet, who speak Albanian, are constantly being deployed to Hungarian settlements. Ladies and gentlemen, As I have indicated, we agree that the EU must expand, first with Serbia. We also agree that, if possible, our foreign national brothers should take part in the leadership of neighbouring countries. However, in both cases it should be said not at all costs. It is necessary to set a minimum that must be conditional in these cases, and this must be the protection and the widest possible guarantee of the rights of our separated national communities. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2016-12-08-84	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, This brings us to the end of the speeches after the agenda. I would like to inform you that the next meeting of the autumn session will take place on 12 December. Thank you for your work, thank you for keeping the record, for the active participation of the office staff. The meeting's closed. Good afternoon, everyone. [[The meeting ended at 1:59 p.m.]]
