u2016-06-06-0	[[The people in this room stand up and greet the voters' community. When the chairman of the meeting takes his seat, the people in the room will sit down.]] Ladies and gentlemen, The 33rd day of the spring session of the Parliament is hereby opened. I would like to inform you that you will be able to assist me in the chair of this meeting, Mr Lajos Szűcs and Mr Dezső Szűcs. Welcome to our guests and to all those who monitor our work. Dear House, Before the agenda, MEP Bertalan Tóth, member of the MSZP's group, applied for a pre-table address with the title Lance Dog and Horse Foot. Congressman's got the floor.
u2016-06-06-1	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, The lying man is caught before the lame dog, says the Hungarian saying, but the saying is no longer how many times György Matolcsy, Viktor Orbán's better hand is caught in a lie to get something done. Ladies and gentlemen, György Matolcsy, star of the greatest national banking scandal of all time, first lied that the central bank money allocated to MNB foundations had lost its public assets. That it's a lie, the Constitutional Court said it. György Matolcsy later lied that he respected the decision of the Constitutional Court and that all data of public interest would be made public. Well, this has still not happened, and what has been published has in some cases been done with various data content, or with strange dates, because, fellow Members, even the genius of the Carpathian Basin is extraordinary if, for example, you know in advance what kind of authorisation you will be given to make an investment decision a month later. In English, they're still hiding, and they're falsifying the data. Matolcsy also said that the aim of the MNB's foundations is to strengthen Hungarian economics education and financial culture. The fact that this is a lie came out from the foundations' contracts. It can be seen that billions of HUF 266 billion have been spent on building their own media empire; ten billion have been spent on acquiring and recapitalisation their own commercial banks, as you can see at Matolcsy's cousin's bank; with unnecessary orders, huge hundreds of millions have been allocated to related and friendly companies; one of the curators even said that the real goal of the foundations is to promote Fidesz's 2018 election success. Ladies and gentlemen, So it is clear that György Matolcsy has been caught, not once, but many times. It is also clear that it is unworthy of the Magyar Nemzeti Bank to have a leader who lies, who puts relations with relatives and private interests ahead of the public interest to be exercised by his office. Unfortunately, we Hungarians cannot be proud of György Matolcsy. It is also certain that György Matolcsy would have something to investigate with the Public Prosecutor's Office, the State Court of Auditors, the Public Procurement Authority and other organisations. Compared to that, it's pathetic how the bodies I'm looking for are trying to push this whole thing away. It is particularly funny that, according to Minister Miklós Seszták, the State Court of Auditors has the power to examine this, and László Domokos writes back that he does not have the authority to do so, even though the law has now been passed. Ladies and gentlemen, He is an accomplice among sinners who are mute, but also who actively assists in this process. You, my fellow Members, have given all the assistance you can to the pathetic attempts of György Matolcsy to keep the use of HUF 266 billion of public money a secret. You voted in favour of the encrypting bill that ultimately failed in the opposition of the President of the Republic and the Constitutional Court. But you are also happy to assist in other fidesz thefts, because you wanted to make it impossible for the public to know why you privatized some of the Posta's activities, why and under what conditions you sold certain parts of the business. And now, in the context of the adoption of the 2017 budget, you are preparing new secrets because you are afraid. They're afraid of the public, afraid of new scandals, afraid that they can't hide the slippery horse foot anymore, because now you can see the whole horse. Ladies and gentlemen, If public companies are responsible for farming and effectively increasing public funds, then there is nothing to be afraid of. Afraid is only when they manage public funds as György Matolcsy does with MNB's money, or as the MVM Partner has done with MET Zrt. - there is indeed something to be afraid of. But, fellow Members, secrecy is not the solution in this case, because it does not protect those responsible and their accomplices from being held accountable after a change of government. The solution could be the replacement, accountability and recovery of wasted public wealth. I would ask my fellow Members not to cover for criminals, not to cover for more national assets to lose their public wealth. Thank you for your attention.
u2016-06-06-2	I give the floor to the Secretary of State of Tállai. Here you go.
u2016-06-06-3	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, I see that the Hungarian Socialist Party has nothing new to say about the MNB, can't come up with any new information, which it says about lies and encryption, which it usually tells in front of the Parliament's agenda, which is why I won't give you any new elements in the answer either. I would like to stress to you what we have already emphasised from the government that all the organs and members of the Hungarian National Bank are independent and that in their work they are obliged to take into account that they cannot receive or carry out instructions from either the government or the European Central Bank, from any other organisation or political party. The government respects this rule of law. The management of the Hungarian National Bank and its organizations and foundations is governed by laws. The control of the activities of the Magyar Nemzeti Bank is regulated by several laws, so you mentioned the activities and tasks of the State Audit Office. I stress to you that the 2011 LXVI on the State Audit Office. Act 5. Paragraph 10 of the Act on the National Bank of Hungary states:. The State Audit Office checks the management of the National Bank of Hungary and the activities carried out under the Act on the National Bank of Hungary, which do not fall within the scope of the basic tasks. In this context, the State Audit Office checks the National Bank of Hungary and also checks whether it operates according to the law, whether it operates according to the statutes and whether its general meeting takes decisions legally and legally. So the activities and management of the Hungarian National Bank are under strict control. The management of the foundations of the Magyar Nemzeti Bank and any organization is regulated by law, so the Civil Code states that the founder will not interfere with the foundation's activities after the adoption of the statutes, separate from its founding activities, as is the case with the Magyar Nemzeti Bank. So the foundations have a separate legal personality, and the board of trustees is responsible for its management. The founding rights of the MNB do not cover any specific questions relating to the purpose-specific activities of the foundations. [[13.10]] And it is not true what you say about any kind of encryption, because the foundations also respect the decision of the Constitutional Court and the Curia, and they fulfil the obligation to disclose the information required by the info law, as you receive it from here, you receive this information that you bring to Parliament. And it is not true that their assets are being squandered, because the foundations' assets increased by HUF 830 million during their activities. It is also not true that the grants are given secretly and cannot be known, as the foundations have put HUF 3.3 billion on more than 700 applications in the last nearly two years. The public is also assured that the property-related data, the composition of the items of property, the current situation of property and all contracts concluded are available on the foundations' websites. I respectfully ask the Member to try to approach what he has to say on the basis of facts and reality. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-06-06-4	Congresswoman Bernadett Szél, member of the LMP Group, has also applied for a speech before the agenda:, The last turn off the lights! It's an address. Here you go, Congresswoman.
u2016-06-06-5	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Hungary is showing a strange picture today: as long as there is still no job available in some regions, emergency signals are coming from more and more professions about a very serious shortage of workers. We know that almost all tourists now have to take a person or two to the Lake Balaton if they want to use a service. Anyone who goes to a grocery store or a bakery or a restaurant might build, renovate their apartment, find no professionals, or find overworked, overworked people. Restaurants are already recruiting foreign guest workers. The government's favourite automotive partners have not only a lack of engineering and IT, but they are no longer applying for trained physical work. The reasons are very clear: the government has pushed the wages down, the direct consequence of which is that emigration is slowly becoming unmanageable. More and more people decide that they refuse to accept that they have to work eight to ten hours a day, and then they cannot support themselves or their families. What's going on? We could ask, because that's not what Fidesz promised. And that's exactly what we're talking about: Fidesz cheated the country. You have degraded the concept of citizens and civilization into a political product, because what we are experiencing today, and what I am talking about here in Parliament, does not suit a government that is supposed to be for citizens. However, you have long since left this country uncommunicated, and you do not live and behave like citizens. [[Interviews from the Fidesz ranks.]] You urize, you offshore, you favor foreign capital and luxury. Look at you. Look at your friends. The Prime Minister moves to the Castle, Ibiza is amused, they live a golden life, while the workers are in what condition: three quarters of the workers in this country earn under average wage, four million people live under practically minimum living. Who do you represent, my fellow Members? Who do you represent? Because it's not the citizens, that's for sure. But SMEs didn't get what Fidesz promised, they know the wages are bad, so it's hard to keep people, but they can't find any new people. [[Constant interruptions from the Fidesz ranks.]] They have no chance of investing at all, because EU funds are now not being played out like they did a few years ago, but are being carried out with trucks, and after the closure of EU money taps, there is nothing left to support successful businesses. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] In the meantime, we see that the government itself, claiming to be a national, represents the interests of foreign multinational companies rather than Hungarian SMEs, this is the big problem. I had to sue to find out how much investment tax breaks they got, how much funding they got. Do you know how much an SME gets to create jobs for one person? They're happy with a million forints. Some multinationals got $30 million. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: Who worked at Philip Morris?]] That's the big deal, the numbers speak for themselves. In addition, the Hungarian economy is still in a completely dead state, and for years there has been artificial signs to make any kind of change here. But the latest GDP showed the sad reality: if the EU funds stop a little, the resources will fade away, Hungarian growth is one of the worst in the whole European Union. Everywhere I look at this situation, everywhere I look, I see that your economic policy is a dead end: wages have been taken down, workers' rights have been destroyed, our country has become a assembly plant, there is no growth. But how would it be? You support the multinationals, who basically take 80 percent of the profits out of the country. That's what's been going on. It is even worse now because we have come to the point that in these assembly plants there is no one left to work. And if there were even a little professionals in the Hungarian government, they would know precisely that the situation is even worse. The fact is, you know, my fellow Members, that, in comparison to its quality, I have just quoted the Prime Minister as boasting, the Prime Minister, that we cannot build economic policy in the European Union because we are in a position to have a border, and on the other side of the border people who cannot support themselves or their families are earning three or four times as much money. This border practically does not exist in this respect. Hungarian workers say that if they do not receive decent wages, they will leave. But what about Hungary? What about us Hungarian citizens? The question is who is going to turn off the lights, because with such wages, there is no one to work in this country. I respectfully ask the government what you want to do to prevent hundreds of thousands of jobs [[The President shall ring a bell to indicate the expiry of the time limit.]] In this country we can't fill. Thank you.
u2016-06-06-6	I give the floor to State Secretary Péter Cseresnyés.
u2016-06-06-7	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Ladies and gentlemen, Madam Congresswoman, I have listened very sadly to you because I have not been able to decide that you are now speaking those sentences out of indiscretion and telling us the thoughts you are saying or deliberately; I think both are problems. If deliberately, then because of what you've accused us of just now, you're doing exactly what you're doing: misleading your students, deceiving people who might be listening to your voice, because it's the opposite of what you've said in the last few years. We would like to say some facts about this, although I think I repeat these sentences about three or four times, which I am about to say, but it does not seem to affect your questioning, your wording, your thinking. The question you're asking is, will the last one turn off the lights or not? I would like to tell you that after 2010, there are nearly 600 thousand more people working today than in 2010, so the number of people who have found their calculation in the labour market has steadily increased year after year. My fellow Member Ikotity smiles cynically, then I would like to tell him, I don't know how many times the competition has sucked these people up anyway. [[István Ikotity's intervention.]] this team of professionals, much of it, because nearly 370 thousand of these roughly 600 thousand people in the competition sector - not in the primary labour market only, but in the competition sector [[Dr. Wind Bernadett's intervention.]] - he was able to get a job. Here's a rebuttal about your thinking process or your cynical smile. By the way, and I say that, in some respects, we should perhaps even be a little glad that this situation has arisen, that labour demand, labour shortages and unemployment are present at the same time in Hungary. A few years ago, the problem was the unemployment rate. [[13.20]] That is where we have come to the point where, with the economic development, the growth of the economy and government measures, we now need to think about how we can make up for the labour shortage that is emerging, what tools we need to use to do this. Because we cannot talk about a global shortage of workers, that is not the case. In certain professions, in certain geographical areas, a temporary shortage of labour may be considered. Otherwise, where this arises, we are in contact with companies, companies are in contact with training institutions - whether it is a public training institution or an adult training institution - so that we can solve this problem. Let us see what we have done to ensure that the appropriate team of professionals is constantly available. I'd like to mention a few things. Vocational training has been adapted and continuously adapted to market needs. If you wouldn't believe this by chance, I would say, for example, that one of our main cooperating partners is the Hungarian Chamber of Commerce and Industry. I hope you do not doubt that they know the Hungarian labour market and the needs of the Hungarian economy. For example, they help our everyday activities, our daily work, in this particular training transformation and in the process of training. How, for example, will we be able to secure the labour demand that will arise in the future and in the process? We are trying to move as many people as possible from public employment to the primary labour market. I have also said several times that there is an upward direction in its proportions. This means that, compared to the 7 percent ratio a few years ago, today 13-14 percent of those employed in public employment can enter the primary labour market, and we have announced and announced programmes that, with the help of training these people, will also help them find their place in their primary labour market. For example, one of these programs is the programme "Private Employment to the Competition Sector" for which HUF 3 billion is available, and we support not only training, but also financially, to get someone out of public employment to the primary labour market as soon as possible. But the same is true in the area of flexible employment. Here, too, we have launched a tender to allow as many people as possible to take advantage of this opportunity. And the wages he said: Since 2010, real wages have increased by 13-14 percent. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] Only by the beginning of this year, real wages have increased by more than 7 percent, 7.7%. Do not say that nothing has happened in recent years to fill the labour market shortage and solve the resulting problems. Thank you very much for your attention. Excuse me, Mr. President. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-06-06-8	Now, Congressman György Szilágyi, a member of the Jobbik faction, is next:. Smoke a cigar and earn 150 grand while you are at it, go away for a long weekend and earn 50 million forints. The government commissioner is really doing better with a title. I almost said most of your speech before the agenda. Here you go, Congressman.
u2016-06-06-9	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, 16.5 million forints a day - that's what one of Viktor Orbán's government commissioners makes every day. In a country where more than 4 million people live below the minimum living standards! In a country where there are about 2 million Hungarian citizens living in extreme poverty. In a country where two thirds of the people who work get paid under the average salary. Andy Vajna earns 16,5 million forints a day. That's 11 500 forints a minute. He earns 11 500 forints when he sleeps, earns 11 500 forints when he smokes a cigar or goes on a long weekend. If you smoke a cigar, and by the time you smoke it, you'll make 150,000 forints. He's going away for a long weekend, enjoying himself in one of his wellness hotels and earning 50 million forints. You think it's normal and it's okay? According to Viktor Orbán, one of the bravest Hungarian Andy Vajna, he said so himself. According to Jobbik, he is not the bravest, but the bravest Hungarian people, who, in defying the dictatorship, lies, and actions of the Fidesz and MSZP governments, stayed home, and in difficult circumstances, they are building the country's work. They are the brave ones of Hungary. We thank them for standing up, not Andy Vajna. Prime Minister Andy Vajna, the Hungarian Government and Prime Minister Viktor Orbán must have the courage to put billions of Hungarian citizens in their pockets. Once again, Viktor Orbán's own man denies his promise against offshore knights, which slowly precedes the autumn speech on the lie scale. Andy Vajna's company, Las Vegas Casino Kft., has received terrible tax incentives for its casinos. at the end of the year, he showed 6 billion 128 million HUF 526 thousand results, and he immediately took this money as it is to his offshore company, the offshore company also known as Las Vegas Casino, registered in Luxembourg. Vajna has wheeled out more than HUF 12 billion from the country since 2010, of which almost 11 billion in the last three years. This 12 billion, by the way, was clearly helped by you. Here in Parliament, they all helped him with their votes when they allowed him to rule the casino market; when they allowed him to receive very serious tax incentives for his companies. And even when they make it possible for the hairdresser and the taxi driver to have an online cash register, Andy Vajna's casinos don't have to. So this HUF 6 billion may not even be the total income of Andy Vajna, it is not certain that it has only increased by HUF 6 billion in recent years. By the way, I stress that this is only one section of his activity, because we are talking only about the casino market, the other important things he is involved in, we are not even talking about his results. Orbán was actually telling the truth here in the House when he said that he was not and will never be wealthy, because if, compared to Vajna, we look at how much Viktor Orbán's father has made over the past year, we can see that he only took 1.3 billion out of family companies last year. These are also official data. Indeed, this is only about a third of the HUF 16,5 million a day that Andy Vajna earns, so he did not earn so well. And then we didn't talk about the other people who are in the vicinity of Viktor Orbán, István Tiborcz, István Garancsi or Lőrinc Mészáros the economistcsoda, how much they have earned in the past. And Viktor Orbán is right, so why should he be wealthy? If you have so many searching friends, such a well-earned family, then use the fidesz method that you clearly and very fondly use: borrow from them. If he gets a little tight, he'll ask them for a loan, and I'm sure he'll get a loan. He will receive it from both Andy Vajna and his father and Lőrinc Mészáros, and we can add a list of the oligarchs that you have raised to the point that in Hungary there is a new elite caste system that is trying to keep everything in hand with your political support. It's a shame! [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2016-06-06-10	I give the floor to State Secretary Csaba Dömötör. Here you go.
u2016-06-06-11	Honourable Congressman, We have touched on this issue several times in this House, so allow me to say again that this government was the first to make it mandatory that companies starting out in public procurement should be transparent and declare their final owner. Therefore, it is now public for everyone to know who is running for public procurement and which companies are commissioned and who owns them. 44,000 companies had to declare their final owner, thus making significant progress towards full transparency. As far as the gambling industry is concerned, the uncontrolled and mostly black, illegal gambling industry caused the State financial damage of billions before 2010. The people who supported Jobbik and Jobbik were involved in the one-carchart shop, and it's no coincidence that you're the one who brought this up. In this situation, we had to clean up. Since the introduction of the new rules, public control has increased significantly, the sector has become white, companies operating slot machines have to report on everything and the risk of gambling addiction has also been reduced. Now there are only a few casinos in the country. As far as Andy Vajna is concerned: he has had businesses in Hungary for 26 years; this has been the case even during the governance of the MSZP. The company pays a concession fee of more than HUF 3.8 billion to the budget, which is increased by other tax payments from casinos. [[13.30]] Andy Vajna also acts as the Commissioner for Film and has achieved significant results in the transformation of the film industry, which was previously in complete turmoil. Andy Vajna has undertaken to create a peace and creative atmosphere in this sector that resembles a hornet's nest. It is also due to the transformations it has initiated that the National Film Fund has embraced and supported the son of the Oscar-winning Saul today. The Hungarian films made in the new system have received 130 awards in the world in recent years. Listening to your question, however, I can't just walk past a few things. I find it extremely hypocritical that a better Member is calling the government to account for the spending of state money. I would like to remind you that it has been your party that has paid huge sums of money to various businesses in recent years, such as car repair, transport companies, anonymously prepared and in many cases questionable policy studies. That's probably a pretty good way to get your buddy around. One of them is likely to stand out as one of Gábor Vona's mysterious advisors. His companies have received hundreds of millions of forints of cash in recent years. Please calculate his hourly rate next time. Among the companies, we also find one that owns a week's paper near Jobbik. Your spokesperson said earlier that moonyard construction was taking place. There is also a Jobbik-near entrepreneur whose company has been entrusted several times, through this company, as a delivery agent for an offshore business, so he's sitting up to his neck in offshore cases while you're here in parliament on offshore. One of their newly elected vice presidents founded and ran several companies that were liquidated or cancelled after their sale, with tens of millions of HUF tax debts accumulated. So it must have been about tax evasion. This therefore means that Jobbik has first and foremost to do in terms of transparency and sound management of public funds in its own home. Thank you for your attention. [[Interview from Jobbik's ranks: There's still one more minute. Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-06-06-12	Now, the representative of the Christian Democratic People's Party, Mátyás Firtl, will be next:. Here you go, Congressman.
u2016-06-06-13	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, On 4 June, the date of signature of the Trianon Peace Treaty, since 2010, is the date of national integration. I am the parliamentary representative of Sopron and its surroundings, where our predecessors could answer the Trianon decision in a referendum, as opposed to all those who were not asked about it. The complexity of our greatest national tragedy is partly explained by the fact that the people of Sopron did not know that there would be another bloody war, evacuation, communist rule, border lock, iron curtain. We know, and we will live to see, that not only the connection was a tragedy in itself, but also the dictatorships descending on Eastern Central Europe, the consequences of silence, all that has resulted in the destruction of national consciousness in all parts of the nation and in the mother country, beyond the fact of detachment, the territorial loss. Yes, June 4th is the day of remembrance. But now to remember, to know, to understand so that we can be strengthened in our national self-esteem. Our law on witnessing for national cohesion is historic, because from the greatest tragedy of Hungarianism, our national consciousness, our identity and our self-esteem are the strength to truly live our belongings. Our Hungarian national affiliation is based on our Christian spiritual roots and faith, our Hungarian language and culture, our history and traditions. The law confirmed the process and direction of development that Hungarians had to go through. It must experience and embrace the interrelationship within the nation and parts of the nation, by which the bad feeling of disintegration is replaced by the joy of finding each other, the consciousness of belonging, the power of our identity, the meaning and mission of our national existence, the faith and security of our survival in the future, our common tasks; the knowledge that the foreign and the mother countries can count on each other. This is how the 4th of June can become a day of gratitude for providence with a common purpose and will, so that we Hungarians, in spite of and in the midst of all tragedies here in the Carpathian Basin, could prove that our national belongings are stronger than those forces that have conspired to break us up. That providence gave the Hungarian the strength and wisdom to find the most appropriate means to reunite our nation in both a spiritual, cultural and a public sense, in the spirit of St. Stephen and in the restored continuity, according to our Fundamental Law. Ladies and gentlemen, National cohesion also strengthens us as a community in our human and community living relationships, economically, i.e. in development and growth. I am convinced that strengthening our sense of belonging is one of the drivers of our economic development. A community with solid values, clear goals and visions is strong, which is why it is able to fight contemporary struggles. Ladies and gentlemen, Last week I was present in Vukovar, where László Kövér, President of the National Assembly Zeljko Reiner inaugurated the Hungarian house in Vukovar with Croatian Speaker Zeljko Reiner to ensure that there is a rebirth. Our Hungarian communities like Vukovar, wherever they are in the world, whose loyalty to the mother country, to the mother tongue, to their Hungarian language, not only keeps them, but also keeps us a resource in building and strengthening the nation. Thank you so much for listening. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-06-06-14	On behalf of the government, I give the floor to Secretary of State of Árpád Potápi.
u2016-06-06-15	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear House, On June 4, 1920, on the day of the signing of the Trianon peace dictatorship, the president of the Hungarian National Assembly, István Rakovszky, who had the responsible role of speaking before the House on this tragic day, said: . Every injustice has its profound retribution that its abundant source of good comes from it. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. When the Fidesz-KDNP faction presented a law on witnessing for national cohesion in 2010, we received a number of criticisms that we wanted to celebrate the mourning anniversary of Trianon. Far be it from us. As Gyula Juhász writes, "Because you can't forget, no, never, / As long as you become Hungarian and memory, the events that led to the disintegration of historical Hungary and the fragmentation of our nation. At the same time, the time has come for this anniversary to be replaced by hope. Now, 96 years later, we can see the prophecy of István Rakovszky. Since 2010, 812 795 people have asked for Hungarian citizenship and over 770 000 people have taken the oath of citizenship. The first school group started on 4 June 2011 in the framework of the Unlimited Programme, with the help of which since then 100,000 Hungarian students have reached Hungarian territory across the border. With the help of the program, young people in the motherland could also experience how they kept the language of the ancestors of the foreign Hungarians and nurtured their culture. In fact, we have to admit, in many cases, he has also preserved treasures that we have squandered here at home. I myself, in recent years, have been a part of the uplifting feeling of the strong ties between the Hungarians scattered around the world from all parts of the nation of the Carpathian Basin. Yesterday in Stuttgart I was able to experience the solid and exemplary stand of Hungarians in Germany for Hungarian roots. We owe it to Hungarians living beyond our borders to support their daily struggle for their Hungarians with all our might. [[13.40]] We believe that the educational, cultural and ecclesiastical institutions and organizations of foreign Hungarians are the most important pillars, on which the Hungarians split into parts in Trianon can rely and build. We will launch two programmes this week to contribute to the sacrifices of these organisations. Since 2013, we have been running the Kőrösi Csoma Sándor programme, which will send 100 scholarships to the diaspora organisations again this year, to help trainer, traditionalist and community organizer work. The Petőfi Sándor programme will also be launched last year, with the help of which 50 skilled and skilled young people will be working to strengthen and revive the communities of sporadic Hungarians. The only way to help preserve Hungarian communities abroad is to create a chance for our fellow nations across the border to thrive in their homeland. In 2015 we decided to start the development of Hungarian vocational training institutions, and this year we launched the year of Hungarian young entrepreneurs from abroad. The large-scale economic development programmes that started in Vojvodina with a budget of 50 billion and 32 billion in Transcarpathia are also aimed at strengthening the economy of Hungary abroad. We consider it important to have examples of life before the Hungarians, from which everyone can always gain strength. On the 120th anniversary of this year's birth, Bishop Áron Márton's life path will be remembered and remembered in a commemorative year. We are confident that all of this will help to enable the reunited Hungarian nation to rise together in spite of the Trianon tragedy. Allow me to conclude my speech and answer with the words of an elderly Székely teacher from Al-Duna, Tamás Borsos: I realized that the world is more beautiful with us than without us. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the governing parties and the LMP.]]
u2016-06-06-16	As the last speaker before today's agenda, I give the floor to Mr Lajos Kósa, the leader of the group:, He will give his speech entitled The Lessons of the Danube Interim Election. Here you go.
u2016-06-06-17	Mr. President. Dear House, Dear fellow Members, An interim election was held in Dunaújváros in a district where the candidate for the right was first [[Dr. Gábor Staudt and Dr. András Schiffer intervene.]] He was only able to win in 2010, so the avalanche-like right-wing victories of the 2006 municipal election [[Dr. András Schiffer intervenes.]] [[Dr. András Schiffer intervenes.]] There weren't enough people in this area (Dr. András Schiffer intervenes.) , but...
u2016-06-06-18	Congressman Schiffer, before you get out of office, do you think you're gonna yell at yourself or what? [[Defiance in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] Here you go, Mr. Group Leader.
u2016-06-06-19	I'm sorry, I just didn't want to respond to Mr. Schiffer because I thought it was his swan song, so in that sense, [[Defiance.]] You're gonna have a good time in parliament. So this district cannot be called a district with strong right-wing roots, so I would like to thank the electorate for Zsuzsa Lassingleitner , the representative of Fidesz was elected by 420 votes. The special interest of this result is that DK won the second place of the left-wing parties with 244 votes, the third place was the Jobbik, and the fourth place was the candidate of the MSZP. In any case, together with the fact that we are used to stress it, and here, for the sake of fairness, that interim elections can only be interpreted in a limited way and can only be taken into account nationally with appropriate disciplines, one thing is certain: it cannot be said that in Dunaújváros there would be a particularly shift of government if the results were the same in a former left-wing electoral district. Obviously, however, given that all major representatives of all parties have campaigned in this area, there is a national lesson, namely that some voters still believe that they do not ask for the left-wing policy, especially with regard to developments that have occurred recently in the country. Let us not forget that not so long ago, this weekend, the shocking situation in Hungary was that in the camp in Kiskunhalas, which is a closed camp and serves to keep illegal border crossings, there was a rebellion that was particularly incomprehensible, since - let us not forget - these people had already broken the law, that is why they were there. So it is not simply that they have not respected the Hungarian laws, but have been explicitly violated. And compared to that, when these events [[Dr. Agnes Vadai intervenes.]] The opposition was not at all on the side of the law and order, and he did not say at all that he was still allowing someone to apply for refugee status without legal basis, but that he was coming into the country by deliberately violating the laws, ignoring the Hungarian laws, and then, by the way, by way of the way, by making all sorts of demands that Hungarian prisoners did not normally stress, this has actually shown the backhand of this whole migration crisis, namely that with the exception of Jobbik, the opposition can be said to be strongly pro-migration, and they are simply not on the side of Hungarian law, not on the side of Hungarian law, but on the side of illegal border crossings. When an insult hits the seller in the tobacco store - this has also happened now, in the near days - the immigrant who did this was not convicted, by the way. Let's not forget, for far less than this, when violence against women is being perpetrated, all the actors in Parliament are right to stand up and ask for it. [[Dr. Agnes Vadai intervenes.]] [[Dr. Agnes Vadai intervenes.]] and stresses that violence cannot be supported in any way, especially against children, older people and women (Dr. Ágnes Vadai intervenes). No one raised their voice at that time. It is quite clear from that policy [[Dr. Ágnes Vadai: What are they talking about? You've got to be kidding me.]] What the opposition shows in connection with the whole migration crisis, the Hungarian electorate does not ask, and it cannot be noticed that the left and the MSZP only had one thing in mind: they called the locals to account, demanding the resignation of the local group president in relation to what was otherwise the failure of the MSZP as a whole in this election. I want to thank you again. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] the voter's trust, and we're trying to earn it. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-06-06-20	Mr. Csaba Dömötör has the floor again. Here you go.
u2016-06-06-21	Dear Chief of Staff, Yesterday's election in Dunaújváros once again confirmed that people still do not want the Socialist Party. Indeed, the world's joke is that József Tobias held the local MSZP president responsible. However, everyone knows that the reason for the prestigious defeat is that the MSZP has been dealing with itself and not with voters for a long time. That's what he did when he was on the wheel, and that's what he's doing now. Because how can it happen that a party on the left does not support the reduction of VAT on the most important food? They do this by saying they support it earlier. It is also possible to explain with socialist infighting why the MSZP does not support the home creation programme, which can finally bring an end to the era of foreign exchange loans. Let us then take the socialist referendum initiatives. To one of their referendum questions, signatures were collected even after the cause was no longer valid. And then last week, they failed to collect another signature, and they failed because they couldn't collect the minimum necessary signatures. It is clear from this that even their own voters do not ask for the initiatives of the MSZP. How the MSZP handles the resulting tensions is the party's internal affairs; we wish the Congress good luck! However, the position taken by the left on a key issue is no longer a private matter, and this is the referendum on forced resettlement. At first, the socialists said that immigration was a false problem. That was said the year and a half million people arrived in Europe unchecked. Then, when the first idea of forced resettlement came up, there were two parties sitting here that collected signatures along with the quota. Ferenc Gyurcsány said in one place that even dog dirt should be feared more than terrorists. Then, when the government initiated a referendum, several left-wing representatives, such as Tibor Szanyi, who was supposed to build a hot party, attacked the referendum in front of the Curia. Dear House, The left should know that when it takes a pro-immigration position and drills the referendum, it goes against the Hungarians' will. [[13.50]] But the referendum is coming up, and the MSZP will have to answer some questions at the latest, such as: how would it cover the costs of unlimited immigration? How would you address security risks, such as the growing terrorist threat? We are waiting for an answer whether the MSZP can accept that Brussels threatens those who do not accept compulsory resettlement with a per capita penalty of 78 million, and, if it considers it acceptable, it must provide an answer to how it would cover this punishment. Dear House, The MSZP currently rejects the right for Hungarians to decide who they want to live with. The left would give this right to Brussels. We ask the MSZP to finally take into account the opinions of the Hungarians and to represent them at least on issues that determine the country's life. If the MSZP does not change its position, Dunaújváros is not only the location of a local interim election, but is an important symbol of the continuing left-wing run. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-06-06-22	Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speeches before the agenda. I invite all my fellow Members to take their seats, including the faction leaders, of course. I would like to ask Mr Dezső Liberty to present the speakers who are not on the agenda.
u2016-06-06-23	Dear Parliament, Today he applied for a speech after the agenda: Mihály Witzmann, Fidesz; Balázs Ander, Jobbik; László Horváth, Fidesz; Ikotity, István, LMP; Gergely Farkas, Jobbik; Zoltán Magyar, Jobbik. On Tuesday, the following representatives came forward before the agenda: Zsolt Molnár, MSZP; István Ikotity, LMP; Lajos Rig, Jobbik; Rózsa Hoffmann, KDNP; Zsolt Németh, Fidesz. On Tuesday he applied for a speech after the agenda: János Fuzik, Slovak national minority speaker; Lajos Kepli, Jobbik; Tibor Bana, Jobbik. On Wednesday he applied for a speech after the agenda: Erzsébet Schmuck, LMP; Előd Novák, Jobbik; Lajos Kepli, Jobbik.
u2016-06-06-24	Dear House, The agenda for our meeting starting today is coming up. We shall decide on the agenda, the duration of the meeting, the speaking time limits on the basis of a proposal put forward by the President. The House Committee met today. Based on what has been said, I would like to inform you that the Jobbik faction is the 61st Parliamentary Act. § 5 of the Act on the basis of paragraph 5 of the Rules of Procedure, the motion to reject a resolution of a case-by-case nature shall be discussed on Wednesday following the debates and the decision shall be taken on Monday at the end of the votes. Dear House, We are now deciding on proposals for a derogation from the Rules of the House. In derogation from the Rules of the House, the House Committee initiates the Parliament to depart from the provisions of the Rules on Monday, 13 June 2016 so that before the meeting's agenda points are discussed, the Slovenian ethnic advocate Erika Kissné Köles may speak for a five-minute period, on the occasion of the 25th anniversary of the declaration of independence of the Republic of Slovenia, so that no further comments can be made. He proposed a derogation from the Rules of the House H/10986. You can get to know him on the website. Dear House, I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it agrees to derogate from the Rules of the House. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I find that the House has made a positive decision by 165 votes in favour, unanimously, to derogate from the Rules of the House. Dear Parliament, By way of derogation from the House Rule, the House Committee initiates the National Assembly CXXX of 2000 establishing the nullity of convictions in connection with the 1956 Revolution and War of Independence. T/1105 amending Act T/1105 on the need to improve the functioning of the procedure for attesting nullity In the course of the negotiation of the series of proposals, you should depart from the Rules so that the final vote can take place on tomorrow's sitting. He proposed a derogation from the Rules of the House T/1105/1. You can get to know him on the website. Again, I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it agrees to derogate from the Rules of the House. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I find that the House has contributed by 162 votes in favour, 3 against and 1 abstention to the derogation from the Rules of Procedure. Dear Parliament, In accordance with our agreed decision, amendments can be submitted at 2:55 p.m. today. The Fidesz Group has proposed that T/1105: T/10307. Following the discussion of the legislative proposal No. Anyone who agrees with that, please vote by raising your hands. [[Vote.]] Thank you. I find that the visible majority of this House has accepted the proposal. Dear Parliament, The House Committee, in derogation from the Rules of the House, proposes that the Parliament, as regards the draft regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council laying down the conditions and procedures for determining the Member State responsible for examining an application for international protection lodged in one of the Member States by a third-country national or a stateless person, should be subject to the conditions for the adoption of a reasoned opinion. Report No 7 and H/10931 on the adoption of this Regulation. In the course of the discussion of the resolution proposal No 13 June, it shall depart from the Rules in such a way that the final vote can take place. He proposed a derogation from the Rules of the House H/10931/1. You can get to know him on the website. Dear House, Again, I am asking you if you will contribute to the departure from the Rules of the House. Please vote. [[Vote.]] The House has contributed by 164 votes in favour, 5 against and without abstention to the derogation from the Rules of Procedure. In accordance with our agreed decision, amendments can be submitted for 14 hours and 57 minutes today. The Fidesz Group has proposed that B/10929: 1st report and H/10931 on its adoption. T/10347 on tomorrow's meeting for a joint debate on the resolution proposal. Following the discussion of the legislative proposal No. Anyone who agrees with that, please vote by raising your hands. [[Vote.]] Thank you. I find that the visible majority of this House has accepted the proposal. Dear Parliament, In derogation from the Rules of the House, the proposal put forward by the President initiates the National Assembly to declare the Protocol on Montenegro's accession to the North Atlantic Treaty T/10934. In the course of the hearing of the 13th of June, it shall depart from the Rules of Procedure in such a way as to allow the final vote to take place on the 13th of June. Proposal for a derogation from the Rules of Procedure T/10934/2. You can know it on the website. I ask the House whether it agrees to derogate from the Rules of the House. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I find that the House has adopted a derogation from the Rules by 164 votes to two, with five abstentions. In accordance with our agreed decision, amendments can be submitted at 14:58 a.m. today. The Fidesz Group has proposed that T/10934. T/10933 on Wednesday's sitting. It shall take place prior to the negotiation of bill No 1. Anyone who agrees with that, give me a raise. [[Vote.]] Thank you very much. I declare that the visible majority of Parliament has accepted the proposal. The House Committee, in derogation from the House Rule, also initiates the Parliament's CCXIV of 2015 on certain claims settlement measures to strengthen the stability of the capital market. T/11001. In the course of the hearing of the 13th of June, it shall depart from the Rules of Procedure in such a way as to allow the final vote to take place on the 13th of June. He proposed a derogation from the Rules of the House T/1101/1. You can get to know him on the website. I ask the House whether it agrees to derogate from the Rules of the House in this case as well. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I find that the House has contributed by 166 votes in favour, 4 against and 1 abstention to the derogation from the Rules of Procedure. Accordingly, proposals for amendments can be submitted at 14:59 a.m. today. [[14.00]] The Fidesz Group has proposed that the T/11001. T/10933 on Wednesday's sitting. It shall take place after a proposal has been negotiated. Anyone who agrees with that, please vote by raising your hands. [[Vote.]] Thank you very much. I find that the visible majority of this House has accepted the proposal. Dear Parliament, The Government has initiated an exceptional procedure for the Parliament to discuss the T/11014 on the amendment of certain laws in connection with the integration of cooperative credit institutions. Submitted by the European Parliament and the Council pursuant to Article 1 (2) of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011. The Government has initiated the possibility of submitting amendments until the third hour after the decision on the exceptional procedure has been taken; the consolidated debate will take place on tomorrow's sitting following the decisions and the decision on the summary amendment proposal and the final vote will take place on tomorrow's meeting. Rule 62 of the House Rules Pursuant to Article 1 (1) of the Act, the Parliament shall decide on the hearing in exceptional proceedings without debate. I would like to draw your attention to the need for a vote in favour of more than half of the Members, i.e. one hundred Members, to order an exceptional procedure. So I ask you, do you accept T/11014. Submitted in exceptional proceedings pursuant to the national motion. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I note that the proposal was adopted by 124 votes to 28, with one abstention. In accordance with our agreed decision, amendments can be submitted at 5 p.m. today. The consolidated debate on the bill will take place on tomorrow's meeting, following the decisions taken, and the final vote on the draft amendment will take place on tomorrow's meeting. Dear Parliament, The Fidesz Group has proposed that T/11014. A consolidated debate on the legislative proposal No 1 will take place on tomorrow's meeting after the decisions have been taken, the decision on the summary amendment proposal and the final vote will take place at the end of the consolidated debate, but not earlier than 1:30 p.m. Anyone who agrees with that, please indicate by raising your hands. [[Vote.]] Thank you. I find that the visible majority of this House has accepted the proposal. The Fidesz Group has proposed that CLXXXIX of 2011 on the local governments of Hungary, in connection with the establishment of mayors' salaries. T/10533 amending Act T/10533 The debate on bill No 1 at this meeting should not take place. [[Dr. Tamás Bellozó: Shame!]] Anyone who agrees with that, please indicate by raising your hands. [[Vote.]] I declare that the visible majority of Parliament has accepted the proposal. Dear Parliament, We are now deciding on a proposal on the agenda put forward by the President. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts the recommendation on the agenda with the amendments adopted above. Please vote by raising your hands. [[Vote.]] Thank you. I note that the visible majority of this House has adopted the agenda. Dear Parliament, In the absence of a committee agreement, we are now deciding on the Commission's discussion and decision-making of proposals. According to the proposal put forward by the President, the National Assembly on the activities of the National Media and Infocommunications Authority in relation to electronic communications in 2015 B/8719. The designated committee shall be invited to take its decision. I ask the Honourable Parliament to ask the designated Economic Committee to be invited by B/8719. for a decision to be taken on this proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament asked the committee to take its decision by 122 votes in favour, 46 against and without abstentions. According to the proposal put forward by the President, the National Assembly was entitled B/9674 on the activities of the Media Council of the National Media and Infocommunications Authority in 2015. The designated committee shall be invited to take its decision. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether the designated Committee of Culture will be invited by B/9674. for a decision to be taken on this proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] The House has asked the Committee to take its decision by 123 votes in favour, 47 against and without abstentions. Dear Parliament, According to the proposal put forward by the President, the National Assembly is the Hungarian Energy and Utility Regulatory Office, entitled B/10190. The designated committee shall be invited to take its decision. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether the designated Economic Committee is invited by B/10190. for a decision to be taken on this proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I find that the House has asked the Committee to take its decision by 124 votes in favour, 47 against and without abstentions. Dear Parliament, A decision on a personal proposal will not take place today. Now, at 2:06 p.m., we move on to interpellation and immediate questions. I would like to inform you that, as the Speaker of Parliament, the House Rules of Decision 121. By exercising my authority under point (a) of paragraph 4 of Section 4 of the Rules of Procedure, Mr Attila Mesterházy shall be appointed by Mr Attila K/10827. I rejected the written question submitted to the Minister of National Economy, as the motion does not fall within the minister's competence. [[It's grumpy. Move.]] Mr Attila Mesterházy, under my authority under point (a) of paragraph 1 (a) of Section K/10827, was appointed by Mr Attila Mesterházy. I rejected the written question submitted to the Minister of National Economy, as the motion does not fall within the minister's competence. (Grunts. - Move. ) Dear Parliament, My fellow Members, please take your seats. If you have anything to discuss, take care of it in the hallway. This is also true of the State Secretary and the faction leaders. István Hiller, representative of the MSZP, submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Human Resources with the title "Hungarian Public Education and the Hungarian Local Government." Congressman's got the floor, please.
u2016-06-06-25	Mr President, Congresswoman Wives and Congressman Lords! Dear Secretary of State, The government suffers from an itch of speech. He's obsessed with everything being regulated, arranged, controlled. To the smallest detail, they want to govern without interruption, even though the essence of unhindered, completely free movement is the real government. These lines were written by István Széchenyi in 1860 in his work Disharmony and Blindness. Obviously, he could not have foreseen anything specifically about today's government, but he was well aware of the nature of governance and its types; he criticized what he did not like and stood up for his own later opinion, which was clearly true. Obviously, you could not see what you, a respected majority of the governors are doing in 2016 but since the 225th anniversary of your birth together has been declared the Széchenyi Memorial Year, it is fitting and important to recall the thoughts of the man we all consider to be the greatest Hungarians at the last interpellation stage of the Spring Session of the Parliament. In 2011, you adopted a public education law with a majority vote, which was central and decisive in its centralisation, the complete reorganisation of the school's maintenance rights and the establishment of an institution-support centre named after poor Klebelsberg. This, of course, has, since then, been seen and recognised as a failure by all of you. Now instead of a KLIK, there'll be 56 little KLIKs. From the experience it was concluded that not the centralization seen in the history of the Hungarian administration is the faulty, but the extent of it. At present, the former municipal school system is being completely destroyed. We disagree with neither the mode of implementation nor the concept. We do not agree as well as the Association of Hungarian Local Governments, or even the Association of Budapest Local Governments, in which the mayors of your Fidesz party are a major majority. Not that the municipal school system wasn't a problem enough, and it's not like I'm arguing that the state should have a role as a school maintainer in defining places, but it's a failure. On this basis, I ask you, Mr Secretary of State, why is there a need for full nationalisation of schools? Why should local governments be punished, sentenced to financial withdrawal for school nationalization? How do they even feel about the future of local governments? In fact, do they aim for the Hungarian [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] the liquidation of local government? Was István Széchenyi right in your opinion? I'm waiting for your answer. [[14.10]]
u2016-06-06-26	To answer on behalf of the government, I give the floor to Mr Bence Rétvári.
u2016-06-06-27	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, When he tried to confirm his criticism of the KLIK on behalf of the Hungarian Socialist Party with a quote from Széchenyi, I saw that Széchenyi hit the wall painting even more so that he could hear better what exactly he was quoted for in this Parliament. You have chosen a part of Széchenyi's work that discusses how important it is for a nation to take control of its own affairs and to direct Hungary's affairs from Pest-Buda and not from Vienna, and how important national self-determination is. These sentences can, of course, be interpreted differently now, but there it was really about telling the country, not from outside its borders, what happens in the country, but deciding on our own future. If you wanted to take quotes from this or that, of course, you could, because if you wanted to, you could explain the opposite in Széchenyi's lines. I'd just like to give you an example, because you can quote a quote that makes good, without the prince, the government's most effective patronage, it's impossible. If anyone wanted to, they could prove the opposite with a quote, but obviously Széchenyi cannot be used to support this or that side at the moment. Because then we would say such things as, therefore, an inevitable need to unite in such bodies around the throne of the prince and his agents - and such. But I think we should leave Széchenyi out of our current idea of KLIK because anyone can bring any quote. At the same time, we cannot exclude from the discussion what caused the state of public education system by 2010 that an in-depth and effective change was needed by all parliamentary parties in 2010. This is the material and content failure that was involved in the school maintenance system at that time. If I only look at the fact that taking 13th month's salary meant 17 billion HUF a year's withdrawal from education, this lack of funds has obviously increased over several years to over 70 billion HUF, and in total it was 200 billion HUF that was missing from the education system in 2010, then we can see why there was a financial failure. And we saw the content failure in the various measurement results that did not bring the level that we would have expected. You also pointed out in your words that the Hungarian Socialist Party itself said in the spring of 2010 that by autumn 2010, part of the schools should be handed over to the state. This has shown that even you have acknowledged at the end of your own eight-year governance that we need a taxatological change. Fidesz-KDNP also said that since institution maintenance has resulted in bankruptcy, since central budgetary resources had to be provided for the consolidation of institution maintenance of HUF 1200 billion, and since the loans of municipalities to schools, social homes and health institutions, issued loans have to be paid from central sources and a different system of maintenance has to be established. This is why the mixed maintenance system was established. At the same time, in recent months, the General Education Round Table has met several times, a special maintenance task force, which has made it clear that this method, the mixed maintenance method, has not fulfilled the expectations attached to it. There is, therefore, a purely municipal reservation that went bankrupt before 2010, there is a mixed reservation system that has not fulfilled the expectations attached to it, and therefore we have no other option but to use the means of maintaining the entire state reserve to build a competitive public education system and to deal with content issues after the structural issues have been resolved. If we don't do this, schools will be as difficult as they have been in the last 20 years. And let me tell you and you that a great deal of negotiations will, of course, prevent this final vote, whether these negotiations took place with Mayor István Tarlós, the Association of Budapest Local Governments on 27 May, the Association of Hungarian Local Governments on 31 May and the county-righted cities on 3 June, and they will continue today with the Association of Budapest Local Governments. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2016-06-06-28	I'll ask Congressman if he'll accept the answer.
u2016-06-06-29	Mr President, I do not accept the answer. Mr. Secretary, you're the one who answers, but I don't see you believing that at all. I think that many of you, who, by the way, have local government experience, past mayors or people who are involved with today's mayors, know that this does not work. I was sure when this law was created that the Institutional Maintenance Centre would fail; not only me, many of us who have been turning on education in recent decades. I'm convinced that the series of measures you're about to take will fail. I was about to say this in the form of an interpellation, so that I could express my opinion in time. They didn't take it. Mr. Secretary, this system that you're building in public education is going to fail, it's not good. That's why I don't accept the answer.
u2016-06-06-30	The congressman didn't accept the answer. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts the Secretary of State's reply. Please vote. [[Vote.]] The House adopted the answer by 117 votes to 43, with no abstentions. István Apáti, representative of Jobbik, submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Justice:. Do you think that accountability is a total failure? It's an address. Congressman's got the floor.
u2016-06-06-31	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, Fidesz's most important election promise in 2010 was accountability, but we can see that they also failed very seriously in this election promise. The procedures necessary for the accountability and accountability of senior politicians and members of government of Balliberal governments between 2002 and 2010 have either not begun or have ceased very quickly, have been terminated very quickly. The question arises, among other things, that the investigating authority, the prosecutor's office, is responsible, or in the courts, in the judicial system, the cause of the error should be sought. One outstanding example is the case of the Sukoro site exchange of Ferenc Gyurcsány, in which it was not possible to get to the indictment. The D.A.'s office explained all this for a ridiculous reason. But this may make the Hagyó case an ugly or harsher example, because, in practice, Miklós Hagyó is still at large, enjoying all the benefits of free life and the wealth he has acquired. In this case, it is worth anchoring a little, because it has also led to institutional political errors, mistakes, bad decisions, bad legislation that all this has happened, the situation is as everyone knows it is now. In 2012, the rules on court organisation, courts and court proceedings were amended. These rules entered into force at that time. This package included, among other things, the possibility for the President of the National Court of Justice to transfer cases, to transfer cases. This was the reason why the Kecskemét Tribunal started to examine the case of Miklós Hagyó in the first instance, not in the capital of the general jurisdiction. Then the black soup came in 2013, and the Constitutional Court declared this regulation unconstitutional. The stalemate was formed, and there was a row between the two courts to see who would proceed with the proceedings, who would have the case, who would have the authority and authority of the court. For this reason, an important rule has not been complied with, since at least one hearing should be held every three months in such cases, but this has been cancelled, so it could start again in July 2014. This also provided the right time for Miklós Hagyó to make good of it in the meantime: the human rights court awarded him a compensation of EUR 12 500 for the alleged inhumane circumstances of his detention in advance. In the end, it looks like he got away with a suspension in the first degree. But let us give a long list of examples, Mr. Secretary of State: what about the sale of Budapest Airport and Malév, what about offshore transactions, what about executive severance payments previously considered to be unspoken, overpriced public procurement? Do these overpriced things just appear to us? In relation to accountability, you are either counterinterested or helpless, in worse cases silent partners or accomplices, and it seems that the individual interests required to maintain the corruption system are stronger than the public interest associated with accountability. I'm asking you how you'd appreciate this zero-to-one accounting. Thank you. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2016-06-06-32	Mr. Secretary of State Pál Völner has the floor. Here you go.
u2016-06-06-33	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Congressman! The Member's interpellation involved a number of criminal proceedings, the outcome of which he wants to take account of on the government. However, we all know and you know very well, Mr President, that, given the separation of powers, the government has no influence on these matters. The government does not have the power to make decisions in pending criminal matters or to influence decisions in cases in any way. What can the government do to ensure that sinners are punished? It pursues a strict criminal policy and creates the necessary legal background for this. I think the government did that. On 1 July 2013, the new Criminal Code entered into force, which regulates crimes against the purity of public life and against the purity of international public life under the heading "Corruption Crimes" in one chapter, some of which have been punished. [[14.20]] The perception of official crimes has also been tightened. I have just mentioned a few of the provisions of the new Criminal Code and, of course, these provisions apply only to offences committed after the entry into force of the Criminal Code. The strict nature of the criminal code in force at the time of the criminal offence brought forward by the Member, perhaps the government at the time should be accountable. We all know that there is no retroactive effect in criminal law, so new laws can't be applied in previous cases. I think we can all agree that one of the most important expectations of justice is that citizens' affairs should be decided in a reasonable, as short as possible time. At the time, the possibility of transferring cases was motivated by this very objective. The amendment introduced a special designation rule to remove the temporary disproportionate workload in each court and thus to achieve the earliest possible conclusion of the cases, with which another court could have received the cases instead of the court responsible for the original proceedings. This was a crisis management institution that could be used in exceptional circumstances, but the Constitutional Court decided that the solution was inadequate. Obviously, when we accepted this in Parliament, we could not predict the later decision of the Constitutional Court, so it is a strong conspiracy theory that any modification would have been made in order to prevent prosecutions from taking strange turns. It is a fact, however, that there is still a significant social need for effective criminal justice, for the timely termination of criminal proceedings. I am sure that the government will meet this demand with the last element of its criminal reforms, the new law on criminal proceedings, and we will then also look forward to the support of the Member in the debate on this law. And speaking of political crime, Mr. President, at first everyone could act in accordance with their own principles, since Jobbik has previously called job accumulation a political crime, and even forbids it in the party's statutes. Dávid Janiczak, the mayor of Ozd's betters, took a salary of nearly HUF 1 million from five places. In the same way, Béla Kovács, who was protected to the extreme by Jobbik, refused to stand up to him. So not only should the standards of criminal law always be taken into account when we talk about politics, but we should also sweep around our own party's house. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-06-06-34	I will give the floor to the congressman in return. Here you go.
u2016-06-06-35	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Of course, I cannot accept this answer and acknowledge that you govern, you are the governing force, not the opposition of the opposition. These are not the answers and the approach that we were looking for. When the oath was given in 2010 or people were promised to be accounted for, they were still aware of these rules. But then they didn't say that the court would charge the investigating authority. Of course, as a lawyer, I am well aware of these facts, but you have deceived voters in an intriguing way, for political gain. The limitation period for these crimes has not yet been met in the overwhelming majority of cases. These acts have not lapsed, so in this way it would be possible to reveal the facts and the truth, but either because of the mergers or because of other individual or limited group interests, you do not dare to do so, but you believe that in 2018, as at the time, Demszky will be able to include the promise of accountability. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] I wonder if there are still some deceivable voters left. I hope there's less and less. Thank you. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2016-06-06-36	The congressman didn't accept the answer. I ask the House if it will accept it. Please vote. [[Vote.]] The House adopted the answer by 112 votes to 32, with 3 abstentions. Bernadett Szél and R. Benedek Sallai, representatives of the LMP, submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Agriculture:. When will Hungarian fruit and vegetables finally be placed on the table of Hungarian families? It's an address. The congresswoman has the floor. Here you go.
u2016-06-06-37	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear Minister, Many people are experiencing the experience that I would like to talk about here in the Hungarian Parliament. A lot of us go shopping, and when we reach for the shelves, we see that we only find foreign food. What we see is that when it comes to imported food, there is basically no difference between domestic and foreign chains. So it is not true, what János Lázár said earlier, in May, that Hungarian retail chains prefer Hungarian goods. Nor is it true that Hungarian retail chains would automatically offer a higher purchase price. Unfortunately, the situation is very bad. We agree, let us say, that the commercial behaviour of the largest retail food chains really makes it very difficult for Hungarian producers to get their products to the shelves, but the question is why the Hungarian government is watching this completely inactively. One feels that you really don't care what comes on the table of Hungarian families, because if you were interested, they would have intervened a long time ago. I would like to take that into account, and I would like to ask for real and effective interventions in this matter. Polish apples sold as Hungarians, Polish milk coming in to the number of trucks, counterfeit foreign products, or Chinese honey also splashed - even though we are the biggest honey power in Europe - are all examples of the fact that the domestic food market is simply not under the control of the government. Here, on the one hand, the livelihood of producers is an important aspect, but the health of the population is also very important. I think that many people are dissatisfied when we see that we have to put poor quality foreign products in our basket instead of high quality Hungarian food. We see that while the chefs of luxury hotels have access to the best quality ingredients, Hungarian families cook what they have. In front of us, Hungarian mothers, we have the challenge of either having a collectible lifestyle, going from shop to shop, getting the ingredients we need for Sunday lunch, or saying that we should rush and hurry to put what is right there in the basket. In addition, I see that even if I find fruit and vegetables produced in Hungary missing in these shops, it is measured in gold prices, and the poor quality foreigner is cheaper. Let me put this problem on the table a little bit. The thing is, I brought you some peaches. [[He's showing me a peach.]] This peach came straight from Italy. [[Noise in the pro-government benches.]] But here's the potato. [[He's showing me a pack of potatoes.]] The potatoes came from the Netherlands. Why do we have to buy Dutch potatoes? But there's onions. [[He's showing me a pack of onions.]] Onion came directly from Belgium to Hungary. There's the South African pear. [[It's constant noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] garlic in Spain. [[Erzsébet Schmuck shows me a garlic garland.]] The garlic comes from Spain, and there's carrots from Italy. Why do we have to get the carrots from Italy? And the apple? [[Turning towards Erzsébet Schmuck:]] Elizabeth, where did the apple come from? The apple came from Poland. [[It's a lot of noise. The president's ringing again.]] Gentlemen and ladies, I think that it is completely unworthy that Hungarian families in Hungary are in such a situation. Give us an answer as to why we have to make a living. And to be remembered, that's why I want... [[Noise, clarity and interruptions in the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-06-06-38	Calm down, ladies and gentlemen. Calm down, calm down. Because the Congresswoman does not know whether she is on the market or in Parliament, this does not need to be applied to you. [[Dr. Bernadett Wind, with the basket in his hand, is headed for Dr. Sándor Fazekas. Applause in the benches of opposition parties.]]
u2016-06-06-39	[[No sound.]] I would like to pass the basket on to Minister Fazekas to give me an answer as to when Hungarian goods will finally be on the Hungarian shelves. [[Dr. Sándor Fazekas puts the basket on his desk. Applause in the benches of opposition parties. It's a lot of noise.]]
u2016-06-06-40	If everyone has regained their peace of mind, I will give the floor to the Minister. Here you go, Minister.
u2016-06-06-41	Dear Parliament, Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Thank you for raising this problem of the vegetable-fruit market, of the Hungarian products at all, of the movements in the market and of the import products in it. Of course, I am not surprised that you will not find Hungarian peaches or Hungarian pears at such a time. I think this applies to a number of other products. This shows that you and your party are, in fact, a shopping downtown party, very far from the agricultural world, which understood very little about agricultural production. [[Interventions in the benches of opposition parties.]] I listened to everyone. Please be quiet. [[14.30]] So agricultural production is not understood as well as trade, nor do they understand house rules, and so on. [[Deterioration in the pro-government benches.]] But I trust that I can help you with your comments, because I would like to say that the Government and the Ministry of Agriculture are committed to the greatest extent. [[Noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] for market access, distribution of Hungarian products and the development of conscious consumer behaviour. So you are - how shall I put it? - unconsciously, yet it helps the Honourable Parliament and all the Parliament's minutes to see what kind of products we should not buy. In Hungary, you may have missed it, but in addition to Hungarian products, there is also the sign and the trademark. There is a regulation that categorizes products. So what is the Hungarian product is clearly visible, it can be purchased, it does not even need to be searched, it is on the shelves of shops, besides imported products. There is free trade, Hungary is a major agricultural exporter, so in order for us to be able to sell, we obviously also have to deal with imported products in the internal markets. But, honourable Member, this is not hopeless. In the past week, I've been selling in several retail stores, and there are many Hungarian products everywhere, including seasonal vegetables such as salads and fruits such as cherries, there are no or hardly any foreign products in the shops. So you can find them, even between the EU's relations. In addition to the regulations on Hungarian products, the government helped to open small-scale markets. In four years we have doubled these exclusively producer markets, 261 operate in Hungary. I'm guessing that you can look for these things, you don't have to do all kinds of hoarding lifestyles. [[Deterioration in the pro-government benches.]] To promote these markets is better from a place! The website is also operational, where all the information can be found. But there are also controls, of the so-called low-quality imported products, Nébih lost more than two thousand tonnes in 2015, and during 703 inspections 56 companies were suspended. So I believe that you are not informed, because you are trying to bring as many foreign products as possible into the Parliament, but I will help you to make this information available. The Nébih is constantly taking action against unfair market behaviour. There are constantly programmes and marketing campaigns to promote products, it is enough to think of high-quality pigmeat, milk campaign, in the case of certain fruits and vegetables such as melons; in recent years, our wine promotion campaign has also been very effective, and the Italian wine has been reduced to a fraction that has appeared in the internal market. Of course, this is a continuous task for everyone, whether for producers or for Hungarian traders, and I think that we can all make sure that conscious consumer behaviour is strengthened and that the Hungarian people buy as many Hungarian products as possible. Thank you very much. [[Interjection from the ranks of Fidesz: That's right! A round of applause from the ruling parties. Gábor István Bellozó: Cancel!]]
u2016-06-06-42	In return, I give the floor to Congressman Sallai R. Benedict.
u2016-06-06-43	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. He says, Minister, that they can do that, and our question is why they won't do it. [[Moore in the pro-government benches.]] Overall, if your rural policy is to get oranges and bananas on the moon street market next to Michelin-star restaurants, then obviously you won't get to see what you can get in the countryside. By the way, my opinion, as we come from an area, is surprising that you think that only those who live in the countryside have the right to buy healthy food, so those who have to buy it in a store, should not have that right, but should buy what they find on the shelf. [[Dr. Sándor Fazekas: No such thing has been said.]] And it is obviously shocking because you are right that Hungarian products could be found next to it, but as long as Slovak milk can be bought for 140 forints and Hungarian milk for twice as much, it is in vain, because if you would give people an income to buy better quality, you might have an opportunity, but not at the moment. You don't have to do this kind of study with the end of the century, and then you'll get real data. [[Intercoms from the pro-government benches. Interview from the ranks of the MSZP: Long live!]] Thank you very much.
u2016-06-06-44	As I understand it, Congressman wanted to say that he would not accept the answer. I ask the House whether it accepts it. Please vote. [[Vote.]] The answer was adopted by 111 votes to 38, with one abstention. Dear Parliament, Kristóf Szatmáry, representative of Fidesz, submitted an interpellation to the Minister of National Economy:. Swindlers around school cooperatives? It's an address. Congressman's got the floor.
u2016-06-06-45	Thank you very much. Mr. President. Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, XLIX 2016 on the amendment of the laws relating to certain student cooperatives was recently published. Law. The law has put new rules on working by students, the legal system of this type of activity of school cooperatives, and also brought domestic legislation into line with EU directives. We have done this because it is particularly important for both the government and the Fidesz faction to integrate students, young people into the world of work as smoothly as possible, to keep youth unemployment low and to keep young workers at home. One of the tools for achieving our goal is the school cooperative system, which is also a Hungaricum. Unfortunately, sometimes the wheat is mixed with dandruff, unfortunately, there are some people who are only embarrassing the student associations with their activities, because we have recently read that one of the companies that hires, broadcasts and organises student work has not paid a hundred million HUF of wages to students who waited in vain for their wages to arrive in December. Interestingly, the same school cooperative is also registered at the title of Bodajki, with a dozen school cooperatives in the process of prosecuting its managers for HUF 550 million in budgetary damages. So we can see it's not a unique case, we're dealing with a series of frauds. The case takes another interesting turn there, that both companies are Human Operator Zrt. he was a sub-contractor in these scandalous cases. The past continues to haunt me, as Human Operator Zrt. One of the owners, Csaba Czeglédy, is an MSZP politician with a serious scandal chronicle in Szombathely despite his youth, who was otherwise suspended in 2002 as head of the Régbus School Association for tax evasion. Thanks to the blessed activity of Czeglédy, the Rebus left behind more than a hundred million dollars in taxes. However, the Cooperitas School Cooperitas School Association, which is also in liquidation, was not better off, since until the beginning of the procedure it accumulated a tax debt of HUF 1.4 billion and a debt of HUF 1.5 billion. The MSZP politician's scandal chronicle doesn't run out here. This, however, does not seem to be an obstacle to his political career. The real scandal is that with such a past, such a present, you can be a head of the MSZP fraction in Szombathely, you can be an MSZP chairmanship aspirant, and, according to the principle of joining together, you can be Ferenc Gyurcsány's personal lawyer in some cases. Unfortunately, I cannot ask Mr Secretary of State why the MSZP is letting this happen, but I can ask what the wallet can do to restore the honor of student work and to increase the employment of students. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2016-06-06-46	Mr. Secretary of State Péter Cseresnyés has the floor.
u2016-06-06-47	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, Honourable Congressman, I would not be able to answer your first question because I am not part of this group, but I would like to answer the rest, the other question as thoroughly as possible. Increasing the employment of young people, facilitating first entry into the labour market is a primary task for the government, and I would like to present you with some of the programmes, some of the measures that I would like to give you, in any case, a thorough answer to your question. The first such measure was implemented within the framework of the Action Programme for the Protection of Jobs: in March this year 162 thousand young people were employed by this programme, and training and entrepreneurial support programmes for young people with significant EU and domestic support will be implemented from 2011 onwards. So it's a process. As a result, the employment rate of young people is constantly increasing, with an increase in employment rate of 291,000 people aged 15-24 years in February-April 2016. This means that unemployment in this age group has fallen to 14.2 percent and their employment rate has risen to 27 percent. The unemployment rate in 2010 was close to 30 per cent in this age group, so it decreased to 14 per cent, and their employment rate was below 20 per cent, and it increased to 27 per cent. [[14.40]] Another very important package of measures is the "Youth Guarantee" which will help at least 180 thousand young people under 25 years of age between 2014-2020 to get a job or a job-supporting qualification through active labour market programmes. Since January, we have been helping young people to get an immediate job or a marketable qualification with active labour market programmes. By the end of 2017, we will help at least 40 thousand young people out of unemployment using HUF 40 billion in total. Within the framework of this programme, we have launched a project to support young people who want to undertake. This programme helps young people under the age of 25 to become entrepreneurs, or if they have a higher education degree, they can use this option until they are 30. Young people with a business plan that successfully completed and accepted training can then apply for grants up to HUF 3 million after a first stage, when learning about all the information available for business. This gives about 1,300 young people the opportunity to become entrepreneurs. We will also launch an internship programme under the Youth Guarantee, which will help young people with professional qualifications to find their place in small and medium-sized enterprises. For the last time, I would like to mention the essence of a program that is about to start, a summer student program with a budget of HUF 1.9 billion. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] it helps local governments and local government companies to give young people the opportunity to learn about the world of work during the summer period through two months of student work. So there are a number of programs that can help you...
u2016-06-06-48	You had four minutes!
u2016-06-06-49	...thank you, excuse me -... you can taste the world of work. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2016-06-06-50	I give the floor to Mr. Kristóf Szatmáry in return. Will you accept the answer?
u2016-06-06-51	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Of course, in the context of the joint responsibility for young people's employment, because of the measures you have said, I naturally accept your answer, and on the basis of our support from the faction, we assure the government that we support any measures that will help students to get to work as soon as possible. At the same time, I would like to draw your attention to our joint responsibility here to the fact that we do need to find a way to ensure that students' money and those who are missing public money are not part of the Hungarian public life, and I would also ask the MSZP to keep this in mind. By the way, it is particularly strange that they are so willing to take on the person of this gentleman that they wanted to send him to the five-party conference on student cooperatives on a faction level, which, I think, is simply outrageous given the gentleman's past. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties. Zoltán Lukács: Kristóf, when were you five-party in this?]]
u2016-06-06-52	Congressman, did you accept the answer? I am asking if you have accepted the answer.
u2016-06-06-53	Yeah.
u2016-06-06-54	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, László Varga, a representative of the MSZP, submitted an interpellation to the Minister of National Economy:, Can steel production again be made in Diósgyőr? It's an address. The interpellation will be answered on behalf of the Prime Minister by the State Secretary of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Trade, Mr István Ájmártó. Congressman's got the floor.
u2016-06-06-55	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, I am now addressing you about an investment in my constituency, which is of outstanding importance not only for Miskolc, but also for the Hungarian manufacturing industry. A year ago, in May 2015, in the Digép Industrial Park in Miskolc, Dr. László Szabó was present in the presence of State Secretary László Szabó. Many received the news without a party position, enthusiastically, hoping to restart the steel production in Diósgyőr. The planned cost of the investment at that time was expected to be slightly over HUF 20 billion. A foreign investor wanted to do this with the help of Eximbank. According to the information provided to me, however, because of the guarantees given by the foreign investor and the lack of self-force, the project has stalled, and how does it proceed? Your question is now in Eximbank's hands. Restarting the steel production in Diósgyőr could not only mean a resurrection of an industrial culture, but it could also be an investment with a turnover of 90-100 billion a year, creating new jobs. We know that the leading sector of the Hungarian economy is the automotive industry, which would need to become increasingly domestic suppliers using Hungarian raw materials. Some of the data that was said about the investment at the time. The new steel works could be an investment with a capacity of 320 thousand tonnes per year, based on the latest state-of-the-art technology equipment, creating new jobs for 320 people. In addition, suppliers and service providers could generate some 1,200 jobs according to the figures at the time. The products produced, as well as the products of the former LKM, could be of high added value, with which Diósgyőr was once the citadel of the alloy steel production of Central Europe, as the automotive raw material was also used to produce military products through mechanical, chemical and energy products. Diósgyőr was the first steel plant in the former Eastern bloc to deliver automatic gear-shifting material to a Western car factory. Today, automotive companies are in Hungary and there are not enough suitable raw materials manufacturers in the country. I ask you, Mr Secretary of State, how does the government intend to help this apparently stalled investment? And by the way, is it possible to re-create steel production in Nutmeg? I'm looking forward to your reply. Thank you, Mr. President.
u2016-06-06-56	In response, I give the floor to the Secretary of State of the Arrow Factory. Here you go.
u2016-06-06-57	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear Parliament, Miskolc Steel Mills Ltd. The aim of its so-called brownfield investment is the creation of a mini steel plant, which creates 250 jobs in the area of Diép Industrial Park in Miskolc, for the production of alloy steel products exclusively from steel waste. In order to carry out the investment in Miskolc, Eximbank signed a non-aid agreement on an export credit line. When considering the reopening of the steel production in Diósgyőr, account should be taken of the fact that it is experiencing one of the most serious crises in the history of the EU steel industry. Since the summer of 2015, there has been a significant decrease in prices of 21 percent in the steel market since the first quarter of 2014. As a result of the decline in demand due to the slowdown in the economy, China has doubled its exports of steel products in recent years, reaching 112.4 million tonnes in 2015. The emergence of low-cost steel products has thus led to lower prices in Europe as well. In addition, plants that survived the 2008 crisis have reduced numbers and have limited room for manoeuvre. Today, around 500 production units in the steel industry in the European Union produce steel products worth €166 billion a year. This is about 1.3 percent of the EU's GDP. Companies directly employ 328 thousand people, with suppliers and service providers, millions of people living in the steel industry. The competitiveness of European steel products is hampered by high energy prices, double US prices, environmental and climate policy standards, import-related raw materials and energy sources. The difficult situation in the sector will be further enhanced by austerity measures in the steel industry, in particular in the construction, transport, infrastructure and other areas. In the 1990s, the European Commission prohibited State aid to the steel industry. Thus, the steel companies were forced to cope in the absence of this. The reasons for the blockage of the investment may be assumed to be linked to those circumstances. It is a serious problem in Hungary that the added value per capita for steel products is low. To change this, Hungary would need a stainless steel plant to produce alloy steels. It's supposed to be a piece of steel, too. It is well known that, among other things, automotive companies purchase alloy steel products. However, it should be taken into account that automotive companies provide these needs with long-term contracts and that only domestic demand cannot be used to base the return on such an investment. [[14.50]] The problem of Diósgyőr Steel was that even though there was competitive technology at international level, there was a high-quality metallurgia, only rolling was the bottlenecks, they could not find the right markets. At present, the European Union is allowing state aid to the steel industry for specific purposes under specific conditions. Making use of this could be an important factor in improving the viability of companies. The possible forms of support are currently being examined, as well as how to reduce the very high import share of domestic steel consumption between 50 and 90 per cent. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-06-06-58	I'll ask Congressman if he'll accept the answer.
u2016-06-06-59	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, I understand your answer, but in this form I cannot accept it at all. In 2014, a week before the parliamentary elections, they campaigned to restart steel production in Diósgyőr. There was the city council, the government representative, the local leaders of Fidesz, a huge campaign slogan. After that, I think, after being elected as a Member, I tried my best to move forward with this question, talking to professionals, trying to help the case. Last May, a foundation stone was laid, where a government secretary of state was there, and he also came to take photos, as were the representatives of the city administration. I think that it is necessary not only to take pictures but also to provide real help for such an investment. I offer my assistance in this, Your Honour. If this investment can be solved, it can be helped, then I offer you my help in everything, my constructivity. But I have to say that after all this time, what you've just said, the walnuts deserve more than that. Thank you very much.
u2016-06-06-60	Congressman didn't accept the answer. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts the Secretary of State's reply. Please vote. [[Vote.]] The answer was adopted by 109 votes to 28, with 1 abstention. Zoltán Magyar, representative of Jobbik, submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Agriculture:. Why do the Hungarian authorities and institutions treat all their clients as criminals? Why are they not obliged to do so for themselves? It's an address. Congressman's got the floor.
u2016-06-06-61	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Dear Minister, It's not the first time I've asked you about the problems surrounding payments by the Department of Agriculture and Rural Development. The MVH is responsible for, among other things, the management and control of domestic agricultural resources. In recent years, there has not been a day when farmers would not have come to me with their complaint that the MVH had not paid the promised aid in due time, or that an extremely inflexible attitude had made it impossible for families. From the time of the former office's leadership, many are behind bars, and the name of the organization was then interwoven with the word corruption. We also expected a great deal from the change of leadership, but unfortunately, the experience is that, even if the new approach is visible, it has not leaked down to the enforcement level. Nor is it a coincidence that his fellow minister, Mr Lázár, compared the office to the ÁVH, even though similar systems of public money throughout Europe are working to make it easier for family farms. This is why it is worrying when there is news that the MVH no longer has a framework for legitimate payments. However, the bled-out situation of Hungarian farmers, as we know, creates conditions that require all the forints. That's why I'm telling you, you've proven to be unhostile many times. Recently I was approached by a Csongrád county farmer with a complaint that MVH then withdrew HUF 2 million from him, as it later turned out, illegally. The farmer appealed and later proved his point. By that time, the MVH withdrew its first-rate decision and second-degreely granted the same amount - that was two months ago on April 5th - but since then the payment has not been made, the farmer has not seen a single forint of what has already been awarded to him several times. We received information from the financial department of the MVH about the specific case that they would pay for it, but there's nothing to do with it. Since then, Minister, it has been found that it is not a unique isolated case, but a daily routine that the state expects accuracy and regularity only when it comes to clients, but when it comes to itself, it is far from so strict. On this basis, I think we are right to ask Minister on behalf of the economy: why are payments constantly slipping at the MVH, why is there not enough resources at the paying agency? Is there any obstacle to the drawing up of EU funds? How many similar withheld payments do you know? I would like to stress this question, since the protection in the press on the part of the wallet, we know that it contains false numbers. What's the backlog of the MVH case? Why do people who just want to work in this country view them as criminals? I look forward to your substantive answer. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2016-06-06-62	Minister Sándor Fazekas has the floor.
u2016-06-06-63	Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, In the context of the question tabled by the Member, I should first of all like to point out that the turns of looking down on people working, all-encompassing, primitive, unsouled attitude, and the rest of them would be met by farmers, this is a gravely offensive, unworthy and untrue statement. I am convinced that the management and staff of the Agriculture and Rural Development Office will do their best to ensure that Hungarian farmers receive the subsidies they deserve in due time. And the amounts that have been won in tenders will also have to be received. In this particular case, too, which obviously would need to be examined more closely in order to be fully aware of. Honourable Congressman, The staff of the Agriculture and Rural Development Office participated in over 1.3 million official cases in 2015, so last year, this means a thousand cases per employee. I thought it was important to say this here in the Honourable Parliament to see what a huge task the MVH is dealing with, how many cases it has to carry out. Thirty-five different items of support, for example. I am convinced that there is no organization that works perfectly, no organization where everyone always has the best performance, but I believe that the serious stigmatizing statement that you have made is unacceptable. In the context of the MVH's work, there were several changes, new management took over the tasks, and this is why in 2015 the Office evaluated more than 230 thousand applications and paid a record agricultural subsidy of HUF 800 billion to farmers. It's 15 to 20 percent more than it was in previous years. A total of 1150 farmers have lodged an appeal, honourable Member. So dissatisfaction can't be that great. But I'm willing to take all the criticisms of an improvement, and I'm willing to investigate every particular case. If you had 365 cases, as you may have heard from this House - the Member has obviously tried to speak seriously this time, although he has not always been able to do so - then we will, of course, investigate this large number of cases. That means that one third of those who challenged the MVH's decision complained to you. We are available, and, of course, we expect the data from you so that we can help the affected. Dear Parliament, Out of the area payment, where a total of 123 thousand applicants have submitted applications, the Agriculture and Rural Development Office has already made payments to 99 percent of them, to 121 544 farmers. So it doesn't stand up to the fact that there's some kind of backlog here or that there's a backlog of the payout. More than HUF 100 billion was transferred by the office than greening aid. 97 percent of customers, 119 736 farmers, have already received this. More than 50,000 people have chosen small farmers' aid. This is a farm-friendly, simplified form of support, 97 percent of the right holders have already obtained this. This simplification will allow for a faster process and we are working on giving as many people as possible the opportunity to receive these grants. Honourable Congressman, The specific case is likely to be some kind of rural development support. Here, a payment barrier resulting from EU legislation had to be removed. But I stress that the framework, the amount of support is available, all Hungarian farmers, all farmers, all agricultural enterprises will receive the funds and subsidies to which they are entitled. Of course, the conditions must be met by everyone, and the State can fulfil all the conditions on its own. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-06-06-64	I'll ask Congressman if he'll accept the answer.
u2016-06-06-65	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Minister, I have not received answers to the most important questions, including why it occurs in bulk in cases where there is otherwise a judgment on why those affected do not receive the money, the support. This is insane. You can't work like this. They're small family farmers, they need all their forints as soon as possible. And the fact that the MVH has a new leadership is not a glory in itself, because it is in the old prison or awaiting judgment, of course it was necessary to appoint a new leader. [[15.00]] If the employees are so overwhelmed, as you said, Minister, then let us provide resources to the MVH, not let Hungarian family farmers suffer that they do not provide enough funding for this. As to the fact that you have received only a thousand or a few appeals, don't be surprised, Minister, that the people concerned are actually afraid to turn to the MVH, because they have often suffered a retortion because of their complaints, and that is why they did not receive their support the following year. Of course, I cannot accept your reply. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2016-06-06-66	I ask the House whether it accepts the Minister's reply. Please vote. [[Vote.]] The House adopted the answer by 108 votes to 29, with two abstentions. Zsuzsa Szelényi, an independent representative, has submitted an interpellation to the Prime Minister:, How does the Hungarian government defend itself against Russian Internet influence? It's an address. To interpellation... [[For signal:]] My apologies to Congresswoman, I turned two cards at once. László Földi, representative of KDNP, who has submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Human Resources:. Congressman's got the floor. [[István Jakab, vice-president of the Parliament takes the chair.]]
u2016-06-06-67	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, The changes in our modern world at a heightened pace, the economic transformation and social policy decisions must also be specifically focused on social security, which must be the core of the existence of a society. Article XIX of the Fundamental Law of Hungary In accordance with Article 4 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Hungary seeks to ensure social security for all its citizens. In the case of maternity, sickness, disability, disability, widowhood, orphanage and unemployment, all Hungarian citizens are entitled to statutory support. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. As a representative of KDNP, I think this is particularly important, because the party I represent has always felt that it was one of the most important tasks of the social values of families, the fallen and the disadvantaged. This is why we feel that the primary objective of the former socialist governments is to improve social security, to renew child welfare and child protection services and to provide family support. A series of measures have been taken by the Fidesz-KDNP government in this area. As a result of the catch-up strategy, the number of people at risk of poverty has been steadily decreasing in recent years. We have managed to reduce child poverty, extend support and create free children's meals. If we are thinking of the elderly, we should not forget the strengthening of the pension system, the increase in pensions or the positive impact of tax reductions so far and also expected. Overall, they all contribute to the social security of the elderly. We have not only supported older people with sound political passwords, but we want to improve and improve their financial and social appreciation year after year. Dear Secretary of State, We have been able to improve the quality of life for a wide range of people in need, and we have been able to strengthen their financial position. Next year's budget intends to pursue the strategy of catching up, bearing in mind the interests of stakeholders, the opportunities of the present and future Hungarian society. In view of the developments in the past period and the positive trends that have started, I respectfully ask the Secretary of State what progress has been made so far in the development of the social care system, what possible measures the government is planning to take to further improve the living conditions of those in need. I look forward to your reply, Secretary of State. [[It's a rare round of applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-06-06-68	Thank you, Congressman. Welcome, fellow Members. State Secretary Bence Rétvári responds to the interpellation. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2016-06-06-69	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, I believe that prevention is the best in this area, too, in the area of need, as in all other areas. It is therefore important to see that we are certainly among the first among the European Union and the OECD countries in the proportion of the increase in the minimum wage. This is 51 percent in Hungary over six years, so the minimum wage has increased by more than one and a half times. Although the level of employment has also increased noticeably, let's just say that more people are working by 145 thousand compared to the same period of the previous year, this is already in terms of how we can prevent someone from being in need, I think, an important result. The new scheme, the new social support scheme, entered into force on 1 March 2015, which made the cost of social protection more transparent. There has been a clear situation, since the state automatically provides income compensatory subsidies directly to everyone through district offices, as long as the local authorities pay the expenditure compensatory allowances that require more individual consideration, and they also received a rather significant HUF 25-30 billion extra fund, which allows them to pay the municipal subsidies. With the adoption of next year's budget, if this happens next week, from 1 January 2017 elderly people's benefits will increase by 5 percent, and the rate of care fees will also increase. In addition to the fund and the increased amount of care, a special new form, the special amount of care was created a few years ago, so out of the benefits that had moved in the area of twenty-thousand forints, who had received the special care fee, this care fee could be up to HUF 55 800 if they cared for someone's relative and close relative in their home. By transforming home assistance, we can also provide important help to those in need, since we have separated care, assistance that requires expertise and which can be provided as home assistance without special expertise. So one of them requires some kind of medical knowledge, social knowledge. However, the other, which is easier to achieve for an ordinary person, is reflected in the activities or walks around the house, which does not require a specialist with a special degree, in a different type, in this simpler form of home assistance. We are also trying to increase the wages of workers in the social sector, depending on the performance of the economy. In 2014, a sectoral wage supplement was introduced, a supplement last year, and next year's budget also includes a surplus of billions, which we can devote to wage development in the social sector. Next year is the year when wage increases will be made either for those in need of health or for those in need of social status, as wage increases can be expected both in the social field and in the health sector for those working there. If you look at the feeding of young children, the free children's meals, one of the most spectacular steps is to make, since instead of the previous 98 thousand children, 318 thousand children of kindergarten and nursery age are now given free meals several times a day. We have also extended the range of free dining rooms to children in child protection care and young adults in post-care care provided that they are, of course, in school. However, the holiday meal was extended from the summer break to the other three winter, spring and autumn holidays, so in the 2017 budget it is record high, 6.6 or rather, HUF 6.7 billion is the amount that we use for the holiday meal. It was important to preserve the value of pensions. In 2010, this government undertook to do so in its programme, not only that we have succeeded in achieving this, but also that we have overachieved it, as the 21.1 percent increase in pensions' purchasing value was a 8.4 percent increase and a one-month increase. The VAT reduction will contribute to this in next year's tax laws, which will save an additional HUF 35-40 thousand in their expenditure. Thank you so much for listening. [[It's a rare round of applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-06-06-70	I thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. I'm asking Congressman if he'll accept the Secretary of State's answer.
u2016-06-06-71	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Thank you for your detailed reply to the Secretary of State. I would also like to highlight the work of those working in the social system. I think it is very important to involve the civil sector in this work, because the two can actually provide a valuable, efficient supply system. Perhaps the most important thing is that in recent years, around 60 billion people in the social sector have been paid to settle their wages. I call on the government to strive to create a predictable and quality-accepting career system for those working in the care system, taking into account the capacity of the economy, as it has been established in the pedagogues, in the armed forces, as in this area. Dear Secretary of State, I accept your reply with thanks. [[It's a rare round of applause in the pro-government benches.]] [[15.10]]
u2016-06-06-72	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, The congressman accepted the Secretary of State's reply. Dear Parliament, Zsuzsanna Szelényi, an independent representative, has submitted an interpellation to the Prime Minister:, How does the Hungarian government defend itself against Russian Internet influence? It's an address. On behalf of Prime Minister Péter Szijjártó, on behalf of Minister for Foreign Affairs and Trade, the Minister of State István Ájgyártó responds to the interpellation on behalf of the Prime Minister. Congresswoman, you have the floor.
u2016-06-06-73	Thank you very much. Dear Secretary of State, Dear House, Since 2010, the Orbán government has introduced a spectacular change in Hungary's foreign policy. On the one hand, the government has been in conflict with its Western allies, and on the other hand, it has made a strong opening to Putin Russia. As part of this movement, a massive anti-European campaign is currently taking place in Hungary, while the top Russian political leaders are handing the doorknob to each other in Budapest. In recent years, Hungary has carried out several large-value and completely opaque transactions with Russia in Putin and launched the construction of the new Paks nuclear power plant, which has now become clear that the credit agreement is not even worth it to this government. Since the government has been monitoring civil society organisations by secret service means, according to János Lázár, while this is happening, the online propaganda of the Russian regime has been unscathed in Hungary. Journalists have discovered that more than a hundred online Russian news sources broadcast Russian news in Hungary in Hungarian, which carry out similar propaganda in neighbouring countries, Slovakia, Poland or Germany. In addition, Russian residents conduct anti-Western propaganda films with young Hungarians in Hungary without any consequences. In the last month, members of the Hungarian government have repeatedly advocated the lifting of trade sanctions against Russia, despite Russia's continuing occupation of the Crimean peninsula and part of Ukraine. There is no political reason for lifting sanctions in the European Union. It may seem that the Hungarian government does not find it problematic to invade certain areas of Ukraine. In recent months, I have asked several questions to various members of the government about these embarrassing phenomena, but I have not received a sensible, reliable, convincing answer at all. I do not know what steps the Hungarian government has taken to detect propaganda, and do we know who and what money is used to support these acts in Hungary. Among the public investments linked to Russia, the Paks Nuclear Power Plant stands out. The thousands of billions of HUF investment seemed to Russia once to be a good business, and today it seems that it doesn't seem to hold up any longer. In recent years, you have been unable to show in any way what the Hungarian interest would be to shift Hungary's political and economic focus towards Russia instead of the Euroatlantic federal system. That's why I'd like to know. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] why the Hungarian government is conspiring with economically weakened, politically risky Russia instead of strengthening Hungary's cooperation with the European Union and transatlantic organisations. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the independents.]]
u2016-06-06-74	Thank you, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, State Secretary István Arrowmaker responds to the interpellation. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2016-06-06-75	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Dear House, We are not building Hungarian-Russian relations as an alternative to the Western federal system or the European Union, we are not about to leave the EU or NATO. At the same time, Russia is a key factor in preserving our country's and European competitiveness, while we can only provide appropriate answers to the security policy challenges in our region, including the conflict in Ukraine, the migrant crisis and the Syrian settlement. Therefore, maintaining dialogue with Russia and maintaining pragmatic relations is not a Hungarian feature. Russia is Hungary's key energy supplier, where 80-90 percent of the Hungarian gas imports come from, almost all of the oil imports, 100 percent of the Paks fuel. In the foreseeable future, despite many of our resource and route diversification efforts, there is no realistic way to ensure our energy supply or significantly reduce Russian dependence, as neither the EU nor the US are yet ready to provide the necessary legal and technical conditions for alternative solutions. Large-scale European gas pipeline construction projects are failing one by one, and now the US LNG transports do not offer a perspective, while some European countries continue to increase the vulnerability of the Central European region by building the North Stream 2. There is also no disproportionate commitment to economic and trade cooperation. It is in the primary interest of all countries to widen the range of suppliers and customers, thereby reducing the consequences of negative effects. Recently, Russia has been significantly backwards in the ranking of Hungarian trading partners, causing serious losses in our bilateral trade. With our national interests in mind, therefore, the Hungarian Government is also looking for the possibility of supporting Hungarian companies in the preservation of their previously acquired market positions in Russia in the present international situation. The importance of dialogue with Russia is also recognised in the EU. In March, the Foreign Affairs Council agreed to continue cooperation in areas where this is possible. Several EU leaders have negotiated in Russia over the past period. Commission President Jean-Claude Juncker is also taking part in the International Economic Forum in St. Petersburg on 16 and 17 June, while a number of allied countries are engaged in active high-level dialogue with Moscow, including the United States and several of our EU partners. Hungary must also be ready to seize economic, commercial and market opportunities resulting from the easing of relations. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-06-06-76	Thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, I ask Congresswoman if she will accept the Secretary of State's answer. You have the floor.
u2016-06-06-77	Thank you very much for the floor. I am always surprised when the representatives of the Hungarian government are so sorry to mention that the Hungarian energy supply is essentially in the hands of the Russians. The Hungarian government has never said this before, and even Viktor Orbán himself saw Russian relations quite differently a few years ago when he said that Putin's finches were growing in Europe, and now everyone is beginning to see this as dangerous. It is not a debate or discussion that the Hungarian Government maintains, but you simply put on the wrong horse. They put me on the wrong horse, because despite all the difficulties in the Western world, it's the most advanced civilization in the world. A future based on the knowledge economy drives the economy all over the world, and Russia is not on that path. It's no coincidence that the Russian economy is in such a bad situation.
u2016-06-06-78	Congresswoman, I'm waiting for your answer.
u2016-06-06-79	It's an old government with a bad economic structure, and in no way can you [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] Support Hungary. Of course, I do not accept that answer. Thank you.
u2016-06-06-80	Thank you. I would like to inform Congresswoman that a minute is the time frame for a response. Dear Parliament, The congresswoman did not accept the Secretary of State's reply. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept it. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the State Secretary's reply by 124 votes in favour, 16 votes against and 3 abstentions. Dear Parliament, Erzsébet Schmuck, representative of the LMP, submitted an interview to the Minister of the Prime Minister's Office:. Why is the majority of the government refusing to check the use of EU funds? It's an address. Congresswoman Erzsébet Schmuck has the floor. [[It's grumpy.]] Before I give the floor, I would like to ask my fellow Members to allow the Member to express her interpellation. Thank you.
u2016-06-06-81	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, At the beginning of the year, I tabled a bill amending the Public Finance Act to better control the use of EU funds, which was discussed by both the Economic Commission and the Committee on Budgets. [[15.20]] My proposal was then voted out by the pro-government members of both committees without justification and debate. On 2 May, during the debate on the use of EU funds for the period 2007-2013, I mentioned this because it is an important and necessary measure. On the debate day, you agreed with me that this type of report was necessary. Mr Secretary of State, you said: "With regard to quarterly reports, the government shows openness to the conclusion of such a system, so we promise you to submit this statement once again, together with Minister Lazarus, if appropriate. The amendment was therefore re-submitted by T/10506. I am confident that the majority of the government will support it. Last week, the Committee on Budgets voted against the proposal that you supported on grounds of frivolousity, calling the annual accounts a facade measure. Today, the government and members of the committee recognise that the Hungarian economy is critically dependent on receiving EU funds. The first quarter of GDP highlighted the need to take seriously any warnings that could endanger the Hungarian economy, including the Hungarian people, in a matter of moments. Secretary of State, I ask what must happen in order for your ministry to report annually to Parliament on the use of EU funds. The bill I have tabled would make it compulsory for the Minister responsible for the use of EU funds to report regularly on these spendings and to show their impact. [[Sallai R. Benedek applauds.]]
u2016-06-06-82	Thank you, Congresswoman. Nándor Csepreghy, State Secretary, responds to the interpellation. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2016-06-06-83	Thank you very much, Mr President, for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and A secretary of state representing a government is rarely given the opportunity to please Members at the time when the opposition representative interpelles, but for the first time, Parliament has had the opportunity to hold a substantive debate on the use of EU funds. Unfortunately, the outcome of this debate was predictable, as many parties have brought the political slogans that we could expect from them in so many ways. In essence, the LMP was talking about head quota-based resource allocation, the MSZP, when we said it, constantly said "beneficial," and in the case of Jobbik, there were no serious arguments other than political attacks. In recent years, European Union development resources have been mentioned on a number of occasions, such as the development opportunities that effectively define and create opportunities for Hungarian development, and there has been a truly serious debate between the government and the opposition in principle. In 2010, we made a commitment to bring all European Union funds home, despite the relatively low potential, there may have been consensus between the parliamentary parties. This task has been completed. The most important objective of the 2014-2020 development cycle is to finance truly substantial investments, those that contribute either to job creation or economic growth. Essentially, if a development comes with a need for support that does not correspond to these two criteria, it cannot be supported. I think that this objective can be guaranteed if there is a communication between the parliamentary parties and the government that gives Members continuous accountability, and opposition representatives are able to keep the government accountable for how they can adapt to the goals now undertaken and enforced or expected by the market. Therefore, after the day of debate, as you have put forward this proposal, Minister Lazarus presented to the Government a proposal that the government should report to Parliament quarterly statistical reports on how operational programmes, the use of EU funds, the use of all operational programmes, and the government should take the initiative towards Parliament to discuss content issues two times a year, i.e. during spring and autumn sessions, in the framework of a parliamentary debate. So what I can tell you is that what you're talking about in your current interpellation or submission is because the government has accepted this proposal. The first such statistical report will be submitted by the Government to Parliament at the end of June 2016, so that all Members of Parliament can receive a comprehensive report on the use of European Union funds. Then, as we had the opportunity in the spring session to discuss whether things were actually going in the right direction, there will be an opportunity during the autumn session to discuss this in a timeframe of up to 4 or 8 hours, and, according to the ministerial submission adopted by the government, this will be repeated every year. So they receive a statistical report four times a year, and twice a year, in the context of a parliamentary debate day, any Member, any faction, can comment on the use of European Union funds even before Parliament's publicity. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-06-06-84	I thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. I'll ask Congresswoman if she'll accept the Secretary of State's answer. You have the floor.
u2016-06-06-85	Yeah. Unfortunately, I can't accept the answer because it's a promise for now, and we'll see what happens. Once again, I can only stress that it is very important to evaluate the use of EU funds and not just to present data. I would like to point out that this is also very important because most of the EU's money is being stolen. Excellent case, I would like to ask you: the Intermodal Logistics Centre in Bátonyterenye railway transhipment, for which the total amount of the project was paid, HUF 837 million, but the logistics centre was not built, there is only one sign in place. It would be nice to know that the logistics center was now built and stolen or not built and then the money was stolen. It would be nice to know your answer to such cases. And the other is just a promise for now, and we'll see how it's gonna be done, just like it was a promise to re-submit my bill and be swept off the table. I don't accept the answer. [[Sallai R. Benedek applauds.]]
u2016-06-06-86	Thank you, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, Congresswoman did not accept the Secretary of State's reply. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept it. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the State Secretary's reply by 109 votes in favour, 35 against and without abstentions. Dear Parliament, Sándor Farkas, representative of Fidesz, submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Agriculture. Who pays the Hungarian cows and is it worth visiting Budapest? It's an address. It's up to Congressman.
u2016-06-06-87	Thank you very much. Dear Minister, We all remember, two weeks ago, there were beautiful cows here before Parliament, whose owners once again signalled to the government that there was a serious situation in the dairy sector. It was an open demonstration of dialogue and solution, which is hardly surprising. In contrast to many other recent demonstrations, this demonstration has not turned into anti-government hysteria, perhaps due to the fact that the Balliberal forces do not see a crowd in dairy producers that could be based on coups, or the fact that the dairy players do not stand up to cheap lies, which unfortunately have already been used by workers in other sectors in difficulty. The demonstrators are demanding higher buying-in prices, VAT reductions, suppression of milk imports and new markets, with difficulties in the European dairy sector due to the abolition of the EU quota system and trade anomalies due to foreign policy difficulties. Their demands were also made in the form of petitions to the government, on a professional basis, waiting for a professional solution by protesters. They have confidence in the government, because they have already tried to do everything in their power to reduce the difficulties. The latest measure is to reduce the VAT on milk to 5 per cent next year, but there are also ongoing checks on the milk market and the priority support for the sector, in which, in addition to the additional payments from EU and national funds, the amount financed by the well-inflated amount of milk for the future is well increased. It also includes a program. At the same time, it is also well known that the government is constantly negotiating with the Union in order to alleviate the difficulties caused by the Russian embargo, whether in terms of additional subsidies or in order to alleviate the embargo. I ask you, Minister, how effective do you see the steps taken by the government in recent years to help the dairy sector? What further measures does the Ministry plan to address the remaining problems? Would the portfolio support a wider VAT reduction, including the entire list of dairy products? How realistic would that be under the current circumstances? What results does the government expect from negotiations with the European Union? Is there a chance to alleviate sanctions against Russia at some level, or what kind of problem-management solution can be considered if restrictions continue to apply? I look forward to your reply, Minister. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]] [[15.30]]
u2016-06-06-88	Thank you, Congressman. I give the floor to Minister Sándor Fazekas. You have the floor.
u2016-06-06-89	Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, Thank you for raising this extremely important issue, as there is a global and European dairy market crisis, which affects all producers and also affects processors. The buying-in price of milk is at an unprecedented level, as it decreased in 2015, for the first time in many years, in the milk market demand. Because of the Russian embargo, a huge market has fallen, there is a war situation in several Arab states, the milk quota in Europe has ceased, the restriction of production, which, for example, has only increased its production by 30 percent in the Netherlands. So there is an enormous accumulation of stocks, there is a high capacity, and in this situation Hungarian milk producers must remain on their feet. I would also like to assure you and Hungarian farmers that the Ministry of Agriculture and the Government are on their side, because our aim is to ensure that cattle, dairy production, as an extremely important sector, can make a living in Hungary, that the products can be sold fairly by milk producers, and that there are conditions on the market that ensure that Hungarian customers can also obtain domestic products. A number of measures have been taken in the past period, adding that, obviously, too much is the agricultural portfolio with the geopolitical problem, such as the Russian embargo or war situations, but Hungary cannot begin either. We have sought to seize any possible means available: our contacts with hosts, the Milk Interprofessional Organisation and Product Council have been ongoing, and we have been in consultation over the past few years. In spring 2016, EU and national funds reached an extra HUF 17 billion at the expense of a very serious struggle in the EU. This was given to farmers in addition to the existing funds, and this year there is a higher budget of HUF 63.5 billion than ever before compared to HUF 49 billion in 2015. But that is not enough, because there is also a need to develop the food industry, to develop milk processing capacities. Within the GINOP framework, some HUF 100 billion is available to improve the competitiveness of domestic food processing. We have also tightened the controls so that even through the EKÁER system, through the Nebih controls, the poor quality of imported milk is squeezed out; there have been several spectacular busts in the past. The dairy market is a government measure, since there is now a milk-heart campaign. I will also take advantage of this opportunity for everyone to look for dairy products and milk products with Hungarian flag, with Hungarian subtitles, so that we can also help the Hungarian farmers to make a living and obtain good quality fresh dairy products. However, it can be seen that the sector has been strengthened over the past period, that between 2010 and December 2015 the cattle population has increased by 20% and that the number of cows has increased by 19 percent and the milk yield has also increased. So Hungarian producers stand on the ground, produce at the same level as others; their reserves are obviously smaller than those countries where there was no socialism before; they must compete with farmers' cooperatives with 100-150 years of history. The government's support is also reflected in the fact that soon the VAT on milk will be reduced, this will take place next year, and we will also look at what additional dairy products can extend this benefit; obviously, in the light of the experience of VAT reductions, we will be able to take this step. We are also looking for additional markets through the system of national trading houses, as all European countries are in serious competition in the markets of third countries and countries in the Far East. [[The President shall ring a bell to indicate the expiry of the time limit.]] Our goal is to represent the interests of Hungarian farmers here too, by placing their products on the market, to ensure their livelihood. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-06-06-90	Thank you, Minister. I ask the congressman if he will accept the Minister's answer.
u2016-06-06-91	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear Minister, On behalf of milk producers, I thank you very much for the measures taken by the government and the Ministry to help milk producers, but it must be said that these measures alone will not fully address the economic difficulties faced by milk producers. There's only two things I'd like to back that up. At the moment, the purchase price of milk is about 40 HUF lower than the cost price, which represents a loss of about 40 HUF per litre for each producer. However, I would also like to draw attention to the fact that today we are among the last in Hungary compared to the buying-in prices in the European Union, so they are buying this product at the lowest price in Hungary. In this, I would ask the government for effective assistance and support. Thank you very much. I accept your reply, Minister. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties. Dr. Sándor Fazekas: Thank you very much.]]
u2016-06-06-92	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, The congressman accepted the Minister's reply. Dear Parliament, Ildikó Bangóné Borbély, representative of the MSZP, submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Human Resources:. What will happen in the summer with the feeding of children in need? Do municipalities receive sufficient support to ensure free catering? It's an address. Congresswoman, you have the floor. [[Sándor Font's intervention. Dr. Péter Hoppál: I wish the socialist government had given me so much!]]
u2016-06-06-93	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, It all started with the fact that Fidesz-KDNP voted off its national minimum programme for the eradication of child hunger. [[Dr. Peter Hoppál: Let's not do this. István Szilárd Németh: Stop talking! Dr. Pál Völner: You're hallucinating!]] And then, to make them look cool, they promised that 208 thousand children would be able to eat during the holidays and provide 4.5 billion forints. We had already indicated that there were more children in need than that, since half a million children are entitled to a reduced meal during the year. Finally, however, during this spring break, only 142 thousand children were offered a holiday meal, although not even a month ago they knew exactly how much they had eaten in the holidays. Let's see how the number of people involved has dropped to about a quarter. The government has managed to reduce the number of beneficiaries who could request free meals on holiday, because the condition is not the right to regular child protection benefits, but the disadvantage and cumulative disadvantage. After several times saying that the source will not be enough to feed even the announced 200,000 children, the government finally increased the framework during the spring break. True, this step was justified by raising the daily allowance for a child, which is otherwise appropriate, as it was impossible to provide healthy food for children from 440 forints. Károly Czibere also acknowledged this when he said that the daily norm should be increased in order not to give children poor, less good quality food. When I recently asked how many people ate during spring break, I was told that they did not know exactly yet, only that the municipalities had asked for support for 142 thousand children, so that the state had given money for so many children. We understand how half a million children in need turned out to be 208 thousand, but how did that turn out to be 142,000? Did the municipalities forget to report 66,000 children? Now that summer break is imminent, do you know exactly how many people ate during spring break? Have the needs of the summer holiday been assessed? Are the municipalities prepared to carry out the tasks? Will all eligible children have access to hot food once a day during the summer holiday? Otherwise, we still do not understand the extent to which the increased framework is sufficient, because we would need at least HUF 6.4 billion to feed 208 thousand children during the summer holiday, and then we did not talk about spring, autumn and winter holidays, or even weekends, although the government does not really care about this. So, Secretary of State, I'm going to ask you again why the numbers don't match and where 66,000 children have disappeared from the system. I'm looking forward to your reply.
u2016-06-06-94	Thank you, Congresswoman. State Secretary Bence Rétvári responds to the interpellation. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2016-06-06-95	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Dear House, I think it is not a little outrageous and cynical when the Hungarian Socialist Party makes such speeches in the Hungarian Parliament when you say that you have reduced the number of Fidesz-KDNP, let's say, during spring or autumn break, the number of right holders. How many children were entitled to free meals during spring break during the socialist period? [[Ildikó Bangóné Borbély: Oh, Secretary of State!]] Spring break is zero, fall break is zero, winter break is zero. We've raised this to 143 thousand, and you're saying that we've reduced the number of beneficiaries. What nonsense is this, Congresswoman you're talking about? You are trying very hard, sweaty, to force a kind of image of inhumanity onto Fidesz-KDNP. But how is it possible that when we increase it from zero to 143 thousand, you're not saying that there are finally 143 thousand more children in there, and you're also getting food during spring fall breaks, but you're saying that we've reduced it? Compared to the time you spent 29 billion forints on this whole area? [[15.40]] You know very well that in four years we have doubled it to 58 billion, this year we will spend 72 billion, and next year more, 74 billion. And you're telling me why the number of beneficiaries is falling, why the amount spent is falling. [[A statement from the ruling parties: Shame!]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and In the last six years, you have done so much, and in fact in the period before you almost stood up together and sang We are the World to make fewer children hungry; compared with this, here in Parliament, we have accepted, with your votes against, the budget proposals that have increased these resources by two and a half times. If I look only at the holiday meal, in your time there was a lower amount, which we raised to HUF 3 billion in 2014, after which we increased to HUF 4.5 billion, when we extended the range of those entitled to the summer meal to spring, autumn and winter break, and then, when we made a qualitative improvement that a child could be spent on a day's meal, this will now rise to HUF 6.7 billion in the draft budget for next year, which you will press again, no button within the walls of Parliament. And after that, honourable Member, whatever such a speech is, I think it would not really be a good place to speak. If we look at our survey of November 2015 on last year's catering, we can see that 2245 settlements received support. And do you know how much he asked for? 2245. All the municipalities that asked for support received support last year. I do not believe that in Hungary's history there was a period of child feeding, when none of the local government's applications were rejected by the lack of resources, with reference to lack of resources, this government refused any request for children's meals, which is why it reached 142 159 children and all applicants. In settlements where the situation of the municipalities is very difficult, we do not ask for any part of it, as it is not possible to demand it, to expect it, the majority of children are usually in need here; obviously we ask the more wealthy municipalities for any part of it. As we calculate for the next period, about 160,000 young children will be asked for this support. On 17 May 2016, we also sent a circular to all family and child welfare services and centres, calling their attention to the administrative tasks of this year's system. I think that's how the information got to everyone. This also has positive results in Eurostat data, as the number of people living in child poverty has decreased by 300 thousand in the last two years, who are involved in such a family; I think this is a clear advantage for all of us. And if I look not only at children but also at adults, the number of people who have a problem buying meat food every two days has decreased by 975,000 people during our government, where parents would have a problem buying meat food, or the lack of adequate heating is a problem with 450 thousand people less, and a week's holiday is now available to 1 million 130 thousand more people than in the socialist period. I think we can all enjoy these results together. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-06-06-96	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. I'll ask the congresswoman if she'll accept the Secretary of State's answer. You have the floor.
u2016-06-06-97	Thank you, Mr. President. I can't accept the answer [[Dr. Bence of Rétvári: It would have been better!]] and you know very well, Mr Secretary, that the free meal was introduced during the breaks without the full resources available to the municipalities. [[Dr. Bence of Rétvári: Yes, you can.]] Several mayors have stated that they need to be supplemented from their own resources [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: To the rich municipality! Budaörs!]] And they're gonna do it. But let me quote from a letter from the State Secretary, which András Tállai wrote to me for a question:. The municipalities were able to pay the fee due to the extension of the free catering service in October 2015 already in the case of reporting, i.e. the increase in the operating aid allowed them to obtain compensation for the loss of the fee revenue during the year. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Mr. Secretary, who's lying? [[Intruder from Fidesz: You!]] The mayors or you? Because someone in this system has to lie. You introduce something, and then you communicate how good you've done, but you don't provide it with any money. [[Interventions from the ranks of the governing parties, including Dr. Bence Rétvári: Only two and a half times as much!]] just as it will be paid by the municipalities in education. Thank you very much.
u2016-06-06-98	Thank you. Dear Parliament, The congresswoman did not accept the State Secretary's reply, so I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts it. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the State Secretary's reply by 110 votes to 31, with no abstentions. Dear Parliament, Lajos Kepli, representative of Jobbik, submitted an interpellation to the Minister for National Development: "Sea, Hungarian? Why does the Government drive away Hungarian families looking for a home holiday from Lake Balaton by introducing more and more faces? It's an address. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2016-06-06-99	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, Thus, at the beginning of the summer tourist season in Balaton, it is time to ask some questions about the government's tourism policy. According to the draft budget for next year, instead of one and a half, the state would only add one forint to every tourist tax forint collected next year. However, this puts the government in a difficult position for the municipalities that are already in a worse situation. It has recently been discovered that several municipalities in the vicinity of Lake Balaton are considering making free beaches that are otherwise very attractive to pay, and several municipalities are planning to make parking pay instead of being free of charge so far. We can think about how this will affect the tourism in Balaton, can't we? Propaganda of the ruling party is about tax cuts, but the reality is that people are being sabotaged where they know, ignoring the adverse effects on the economy and tourism. It has just been announced with great hurrah-optimism that tourism is about to rise, because you are setting up a central tourism coordination body. Well, this flowering, it seems, has begun. They're forcing the municipalities to raise more money from the holiday guests. In many settlements, free beach and free parking were attractive, but this can now be terminated as a result of this decision. Besides, in the last two years, Balaton has produced the smallest increase in the growth of my guest night stage - an indication in itself. On the other hand, the number of holiday guests is constantly increasing in Croatia, as in many cases a Hungarian family can go to Croatia for a week cheaper than spending the same one week on the shore of Lake Balaton during domestic tourism. [[Moraj, interrogations from the ruling parties.]] According to a communication from the Croatian National Tourist Board... [[There are constant interruptions from the ranks of the ruling parties. The president's ringing the bell.]] It may be outrageous, we think it's outrageous, but save it for the hallway. According to the Croatian National Tourist Board, the Croatian state has never had as many Hungarian tourists in Croatia as it did in 2015. You're chasing him off the shore of Lake Balaton. [[Constant interrogations from the ruling parties, including Dr. Bence Rétvári: You smile on this too!]] and inland [[István Szilárd Németh intervenes.]] Guests who want to go on holiday, you force them to do it. [[The president's ringing again.]] to choose a holiday abroad, because they are much more expensive today on a domestic holiday, and this does not boost the domestic economy. [[Németh Szilárd István: The Dalmatian beach! What a persecution! To the sea, Hungarian!]] Dear Secretary of State, When is the government finally willing to take action for tourism and Lake Balaton that can lead to spectacular development? Why are Hungarian tourists being chased away from the country with muds? I'm looking forward to your substantive answer. Thank you. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2016-06-06-100	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, State Secretary János Fónagy responds to the interpellation. Secretary of State, you have the floor.
u2016-06-06-101	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, Honourable Congressman, What you are mentioning is in the draft budget for next year, so your proposal is a bit premature, so please allow me to justify the measure contained in the draft by giving full effect to the maintenance and operational tasks of the public education institutions, taking over the obligations of the former municipality and taking over, naturally, the financial coverage involved as of 1 January 2017. The tourist tax paid by tourists and the state supplement provided to it are revenue from municipalities which they are free to use, and they are not obliged to be turned back into tourism. Consequently, the former transfer of income is more a matter for the management of municipalities and not directly for tourism. [[Interjection from the ranks of Fidesz: That's right!]] It is therefore important that the central budget, by maintaining additional support of the same amount of tax revenue, is a serious gesture to the municipalities, since the dynamically increasing number of guest traffic from year to year has resulted in a similar marked increase in municipal revenues after stay in recent years. Honourable Congressman, There is no debate between us that there is a significant potential in Balaton tourism, but I believe that there is absolutely no reason to ring alarm bells. [[15.50]] Last year, the number of hotels in the Balaton region was 6.3 percent, while the number of guest nights exceeded 5 million, it exceeded the turnover of the 2014 record year by 2.6 percent. It is even more encouraging that the average accommodation prices rose by 8 percent at the lake last year. This year's first quarter shows an outstanding increase, with the 23 percent increase in the number of guest nights in Balaton being the highest of all domestic regions. These numbers do not justify what you have said. In particular, the increase in the number of domestic guest nights exceeded 30 percent, while the number of foreign guest nights increased more than in the capital. These results have been made possible by significant government measures in recent years, with significant support for the events around Lake Balaton. Indeed, at the end of March, the government decided to transform the state governance of tourism. The aim of this is to give the sector even greater government attention and more resources. The VAT rate for catering services will be significantly reduced next year and in subsequent years. It is of great importance that in 2017 the amount of budget resources that can be used directly for tourism will quadruple. By the deadline of 15 August, the Hungarian Tourism Agency, which you mentioned recently, will review the measures to improve the legal situation of the sector. I hope that these measures will be beneficial for both the Balaton region and for Hungarian tourism as a whole, and that the Member will also support them by accepting my reply. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2016-06-06-102	I thank the Secretary of State for his reply. I ask the congressman if he will accept the Secretary of State's answer. You have the floor.
u2016-06-06-103	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, I understand your incomprehension, because it is not a question for you to go on holiday to Lake Balaton or to Croatia. Ibiza is more of a winner among you, I know that. [[Noise from the benches of the governing parties. The president's ringing the bell.]] But I have to say that the Hungarian people, most of the Hungarian families, do have a question of whether they can get to Lake Balaton for a weekend or whether they are getting down to the Croatian coast at a cheaper price. The Hungarian families can't afford it either, and they won't be able to afford the Balaton either, if they have to pay for the parking, if they have to pay for the beach, the trains will also be rare. It has just come to light that the MÁV flights to Lake Balaton are falling by half in the summer. You're strangling Lake Balaton tourism. The one who is not strangled is Lőrinc Mészáros, who has already stolen 100 billion of the $300 billion Balaton development money, and probably most of the remaining 200 billion will land in his pocket. They're still filling their own pockets. The Hungarian people's vacation habits, whether they can go on holiday, continue to ignore them. I can't accept the answer. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2016-06-06-104	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, The congressman didn't accept the Secretary of State's answer. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept it. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the State Secretary's reply by 111 votes in favour, 28 against and 3 abstentions. Dear Parliament, Róbert Benedek Sallai, a representative of the LMP, submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Agriculture:. Why does Fidesz act as if to reduce the number of major estates? It's an address. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2016-06-06-105	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr. Secretary. You have just told my colleague Zoltán Magyar that you are willing to listen to all criticisms. Now I'm going to test it again, because in the last two years I haven't recognized this quality, and I'm curious, because what you said in the May 25th issue of the Hungarian Times, in which you said that you came to Canaan, because the small and medium-sized owners have finally taken over the Hungarian lands and the great estate has ceased in Hungary, I would like to draw your attention to a few things in this connection. At the same time, I would refer back to 2014, when the Minister said in December that the government would focus on labour-intensive sectors, resulting in the creation of between 50 and 70 000 new jobs in the countryside. We do not know where these jobs are, because they are not very visible that they have been created in Hungary. What we now see are farmers who are disappointed with agri-environmental support; milk producers are shown here in front of the Prime Minister's Office, but these jobs seem to be missing. The jobs visualised by the government are not present as well as the growing proportion of small farms is not very visible, and instead of small and medium-sized farms, the restoration of the feudal system is shown in Hungary. I recommended the statistical figures in my interpellation, which now show that, for example, Sándor Csányi is farming on more land through legal entities than Prince Frigyes was farming, crossing this border by almost 1,000 hectares. Your strategic partner, Tibor Flag, is also farming, through his interests, about 1,000 hectares above the land that Móric Esterházy used to farm. Tamás Leisztinger's management unit, who received the most support in 2015, is already completely above the former estates of the Count Károlyi family. Similarly, Lőrinc Mészáros, the gasman of the nation, approaches the royal prince of Joseph Habsburg in the greatness of the territories. And here is also your expert in the case of Kazakhjuh, László Horváth, whose castle, as we know, was built by the Almásy family, and the proportion of these lands now roughly approaches the former estates of the Almásy family. You said in this article that there was a major breakthrough in the program for the farmers. I agree with this statement, but with a different conclusion. My claim was that it was a breakthrough, because it permanently took away the chance to create small and medium-sized farmers in Hungary; and it roughly cemented the large estate structure that was dreamed and imagined with Magos. Mr. Secretary has always been proud to be a karakan kun man. What I am asking is that you be such a karakan and tell me that you have never had a purpose to deal with small and medium-sized farmers; they represent the interests of these billionaires. My question is simply why he says otherwise. I'm waiting for your answer. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2016-06-06-106	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Minister Sándor Fazekas, who responds to the interpellation.
u2016-06-06-107	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, I have tried to follow the congressman's comment, not without a grunt, and to exhale what he means. Luckily, I had it in writing. I use the writings, but the congressman doesn't, and he doesn't even use the statistics, that's obvious. In fact, he doesn't even remember the answers he had received several times in the walls of this House, so I have to say it again. First of all, the government is committed to supporting family farms and to ensuring that the Hungarian ownership structure holds 80% of the family holdings, while the large estates have 20 percent. And I remain in my position, which is what I said before, in the debate on the land law, that, if it were up to me, there would not be any major estates in Hungary, but, of course, as the government puts it, 20% of the estate is eligible, accepted. This also applies to large estates such as the great estate of the congressman, which, along with his interests, is 1,000 hectares, and which I will address. [[On the sign of Sallai R. Benedek:]] Whatever surprise the congressman is here to pretend to be. Dear Parliament, What about property ratios? I am pleased to inform this House that since 2010, the number of holdings over 1800 hectares has been reduced from 250 to 130 until 2016, practically halved, and the land they have cultivated has also fallen from 800 thousand hectares to 400 thousand hectares. These are the numbers, Congressman. Write it down so you can work on these next time. Between 2010 and 2015, the National Land Fund Management Organisation and the National Parks concluded a total of 8600 lease agreements with farmers, some 290 thousand hectares of land in a county area. Most of these areas were previously managed and leased by large farms. During the sale phase of the programme for farmers in October 2015, about 11 thousand farmers came to land. I think these are convincing figures that not few have come to land, but many and large areas; 166 thousand hectares have so far been sold. Employment. Honourable Congressman, I need you to take the KSH data in your hand. The number of people employed in agriculture increased by 31 thousand between 2010 and 2015 and an additional 18 thousand new jobs were created in the food industry. What the government of national affairs has done - this is 50,000 jobs, Congressman. Of course, we will continue this work, and 2016 is not in it; adding that we have a lot of problems and problems to deal with in Hungarian agriculture - we can deal with them. With the incomprehension that appears in your opinion, it will be a little harder, but I would like to give an example of how your great estate works, which is hidden behind associations - Alsó-Berettyó Kft., Trollius Association, Mountainer Association, Nimfea, Herman Otto Nature Protection Circle, Beklen Foundation. [[16.00]] You own 583 hectares, Iványi Anna Barbara, your wife owns 214 hectares, in the Lower-Berettyó Melléki Kft., which belongs to your interests, 2.1 hectares, 800 hectares, and you have applied for more than 2 thousand hectares of land, of which you have won 237 hectares. [[Intercoms from the ruling parties. Dr. Agnes Vadai intervenes.]] [[Intercoms from the ruling parties. Dr. Agnes Vadai intervenes.]] What are you talking about, Congressman? What does the LMP talk about when it attacks the major estates when a big owner sits in our ranks? (Interjections from the ranks of the governing parties. - Dr. Agnes Vadai intervenes. ) And between 2007 and 2015 HUF 450 million of agricultural subsidies were added to this area. [[Interjections and murmurs from the ranks of the ruling parties. The president's ringing the bell.]] What are you talking about, Congressman? Count down the windmill in Túrkeve and you've recorded 16 million forints. [[Intercoms.]] Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-06-06-108	I thank the Minister for his reply. I ask the congressman if he will accept the Minister's answer. [[Noise.]] You have the floor.
u2016-06-06-109	Mr President, Unfortunately, I don't accept the answer. [[Intercoms from the ruling parties.]] Basically, I would like to draw the Minister's attention to the fact that, if possible, besides the Hungarian Times and the Pesti Guys financed by you, [[Demercation in the ranks of opposition representatives.]] You'd read something else, you'd know that up to now, every lawsuit has been lost by anyone who's made these allegations. [[István Szilárd Németh intervenes.]] Last time you guys said I had 3 million acres because you're so good at your own business. I see you've looked at the amount of these feudal estates, I see that you're more interested in history than you are in agriculture. [[István Szilárd Németh intervenes.]] But he didn't know better, because apparently he couldn't put these data together. [[Interrogation from the ranks of pro-government representatives.]] Basically, what you're talking about is that big owners hacked all their units into legal entities because of the optimization of subsidies. [[Interjection from the ranks of the governing parties: Then you will do the same!]] and the same subsidies. The estate hasn't gotten smaller, it's not that there's less. [[Interjection from the ranks of the governing parties: You are doing the same thing!]] Then why isn't there less funding to be paid? Obviously what's happening is that these money is being stolen by their friends, and that's why they can't give a straight answer to why they're building the country of Lőrincek Mészáros and Sándor Csányi...
u2016-06-06-110	Congressman...
u2016-06-06-111	...you're inside the government. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2016-06-06-112	Dear Parliament, As I understand it, although the congressman didn't say it, he didn't accept the Minister's answer. [[Intercoms.]] I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept it. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the ministerial response by 110 votes in favour, 36 votes against and no abstentions. Dear Parliament, Sándor Burány, representative of the MSZP, submitted an interpellation to the Minister for National Development:. When will the 441 road be renewed? It's an address. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2016-06-06-113	Thank you, Mr. President. I assume the Secretary of State will answer. Mr Secretary of State, at the press conference on 22 February 2014 at the M3 motorway at Szilas's resting place, it was announced that a total cost of HUF 134 billion from EU funds would be possible to carry out renovations with a total cost of almost HUF 22 billion, specifically mentioning the route 441 between the roads to be renovated. Road 441 connects Cegléd and Kecskemét, passing through Nagykőrös. This road is one of the most important transport routes in the less developed South Pest county area. Because of the poor state of the road, the people there were looking forward to the government's promised renovation. For this reason, they were disappointed that even though two years had passed since the State Secretary's announcement, the renovation of road 441 had not been completed, and the repairs that had sometimes been made after the accidents caused by the potholes did not solve the problem. Dear Secretary of State, I ask you now, when will the government keep its promise, when will it renew the road 441 that's been worse since then. Simple question, I look forward to your answer. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2016-06-06-114	Thank you, Congressman. State Secretary László Tasó responds to the interpellation. Secretary of State, you have the floor.
u2016-06-06-115	[[Without sound:]] Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman... [[Intercoms, please voice.]]
u2016-06-06-116	The voice doesn't work, Mr. Secretary. [[Interjection: Is the card in?]] Is the card set? Can I have a microphone, please?
u2016-06-06-117	One more time... [[Interjection: I got it!]]
u2016-06-06-118	You have the floor. Go on.
u2016-06-06-119	Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, With regard to Highway 441, I would like to assure you that the renovation of the 100 billion-dollar programme will begin at the latest next year. By the way, it was planned earlier, even my predecessor announced it at the time of the ominous information, but the renovation work had not yet been carried out. However, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that a HUF 69 billion renovation programme is currently under way in Hungary, in which Pest county sections are also affected, the roads 3, 5, 31, 51, 4605 and 11304 are now being renovated at a length of about 20 700 metres, at 21 kilometres, this renovation work costs HUF 3.3 billion. The Hungarian government pays particular attention and monitors the problems that are present everywhere, as the maintenance of the road network is in the interest of all Hungarian people, the interests of the Hungarian economy, and we are therefore trying to provide resources with great forces. That is why I think that you have been watching the news, and you know that there will be significant domestic road development from purely domestic sources in the coming years. Of these, I would mention only the important item that will be available in the budget in 17: 287 billion HUF, that is what we will be able to add to the road development from Hungarian sources. This year we spend 167 billion forints on road construction and road development, and as I said, our 69 billion forints program is running. There are 132 locations in Hungary, 132 places we started the work, 26 locations left, and we may have finished one, if I remember correctly, we also finished the technical construction period on Route 5, perhaps we gave the way, if I remember correctly. The point is that in Hungary there is a lot and a lot of serious improvements to the road network, but compared to previous years, as you can see, the Hungarian economy can devote much more to this purpose. We are burdened with the 112 billion items that we always have to cut off from revenue to finance the PPP scheme, but we are still making good progress. The Hungarian Road is, and is doing so, to prevent the risk of accidents and improve traffic safety until the large-scale intervention takes place. We're trying and we want to get there every single trip, we want to renovate some, we're working to make sure that happens. The order is always determined by the technical condition, the current capacity of the road and the traffic conditions, and we always try to do the least wrong. This cannot be done well, because there should be interference everywhere, but I think that the Hungarian government can say and say that it is doing the best possible to improve the state of the roads. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-06-06-120	I thank the Secretary of State for his reply. I ask the congressman if he will accept the Secretary of State's answer.
u2016-06-06-121	Thank you, Mr President, for the opportunity. The thing is that state ministers come and go, but the problem remains the same, and we have heard only one promise again. The problem, Mr Secretary, is that there are promises in the attic, but locals need specifics, so I cannot accept your answer. [[Interjection from the ranks of the governing parties: Good God!]] Thank you very much for your attention.
u2016-06-06-122	Thank you. Dear Parliament, The congressman didn't accept the Secretary of State's answer. I'm asking if they'll accept it. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the State Secretary's reply by 112 votes in favour, 36 votes against and no abstentions. Dear Parliament, It's 16 hours and 8 minutes, and we're moving on to the immediate questioning. Dear Parliament, Mr Gergely Bárándy, representative of the MSZP, wishes to ask the President of the Hungarian National Bank an immediate question entitled "Friends 2." The President appointed Vice-President Márton Nagy to answer the question because of an urgent public task. I ask the Member whether he will accept the person who is responding or ask the President for the answer in person.
u2016-06-06-123	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. I won't accept it, I'd wait for György Matolcsy, and in a week, there'll be another scandal, so I'll add that. Thank you very much.
u2016-06-06-124	Thank you, Congressman. The President shall reply at the hour of the forthcoming immediate questions. Dear Parliament, Zoltán Lukács, a representative of the MSZP, wishes to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question, "Why is one year not enough?" It's an address. Mr Zoltán Lukács has the floor. [[16.10]]
u2016-06-06-125	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen. For the fourth time in a year, the Fidesz-KDNP faction has tried to settle the benefits of small town mayors. Laws have been filed several times. One time, he made it to the Justice Committee, who didn't discuss it in time, so he was out of cause. Then there was a proposal to vote, which did not receive two-thirds for the reasons known. Then there was the re-submitment of this law, which would have settled the benefits of small-town mayors, then it reached a detailed debate, but we still do not know what happened to it, it simply ceased to exist, or at least the negotiation of this legislation. The point is, the mayors of small towns should get their benefits. You've submitted this several times, but somehow you always withdraw, you'll never make it to this point. What we need to see is that when he got to the vote, they were trying to use a method that would not have raised their money, but would have abolished a conflict of interest rule, which is exactly how the mayor of the small settlement could have received a mandate from the government or from the minister, and they could have paid him for it. This was still the subject of debate, and even the mayors of small settlements said that this was not appropriate for them, because their vulnerability is increasing, so the government is practically putting them on a leash, if you will. They wanted, as we say, to pay these small-town mayors in a normal way, in terms of central budget, pro rata and performance. So what I'm asking is, since after a year, the last time we tried four times, the law was revoked around 1:00, when the small town mayors' case would be settled. Thank you very much.
u2016-06-06-126	Thank you. I give the floor to Prime Minister Viktor Orbán.
u2016-06-06-127	Honourable Congressman, Thank you very much for asking, this is an important question. We've been wrestling with it for a long time. If we could have just solved it, we would have solved it already. As you know, the mayor's salary is located in a hierarchy, so if we raise the bottom, we need to raise both the middle and the top. That's what the debate is about. We have proposed that, while this debate is taking place, we should at least allow people working in small municipalities and mayors there to take on work that the law does not allow them to do today. I think it was a reasonable suggestion. Even if it wasn't a complete solution, it would have been a step in the right direction. You have not voted in favour of this, so the debate will continue. I suggest that you take part in this discussion. But don't just talk about small settlements, because once again I say that if we raise the bottom of a pay list, we have to run it all the way through the system, so that we don't create disproportions that would otherwise lead to a more unfair situation than we're trying to remedy. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2016-06-06-128	Thank you, Prime Minister, for your reply. I give the floor back to Congressman Zoltán Lukács. Here you go.
u2016-06-06-129	Thank you very much. I don't think this type of problem exists, because it's practically possible to deduct wages from the salary of the Deputy State Secretary, and they get 10, 20, 30, 40, 60, 70 percent by type of settlement. So the small settlement is okay from this point of view. What I see is that the attempt was not to get money from the mayors and not from the central budget, but from their own income. However, there is very, very little income in small settlements, and therefore they could not have paid it there, even if they wanted to. On the other hand, it is linked to performance, something outstanding, while it is in this law that it is possible to give a reward to the mayors. If that had been accepted, there would have been two kinds of reward for the mayors, not one kind of salary. I therefore believe that the first proposal, which we have agreed with most of us, except that we should not dissolve the conflict of interest that would increase the vulnerability of small-town mayors, if it came back here, could actually be accepted. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] So we're asking you to bring this back in time...
u2016-06-06-130	Thank you, Congressman...
u2016-06-06-131	...and then this case can be settled. Thank you very much.
u2016-06-06-132	The Prime Minister is entitled to a rejoinder. [[Viktor Orbán says no.]] Thank you, Prime Minister, you do not wish to answer. Dear Parliament, Márton Gyöngyösi, representative of Jobbik, wishes to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question: " Prime Minister, how do you like the mercenary food? It's an address. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2016-06-06-133	Prime Minister, over the last few weeks, the various prominents of Fidesz have spoken about the fact that George Soros has a certain background agenda. The line was opened by János Lázár himself in the usual government info on Thursday, who also oversees the Information Office, and said that the state, the government, has certain evidence that George Soros's hand is involved in causing the migration crisis. Zoltán Kovács spokesperson for communication continued the line, and recently you spoke about György Soros and his backup efforts in a radio interview. The joyful thing is that you are enlightened, and 26 years after the change of regime, you have discovered who and how you shape the post-bipolar world order, but let us consider your relationship with György Soros. I recently received a publication that was edited by Miklós Vásárhelyi himself. In this publication he summarized the names of the people supported by George Soros in the 1980s. This publication contains about the entire list of Fidesz founders and Fidesz prominents. Just as it is a fact that in 1987 you, together with László Kövér, met György Soros personally and reported to him the fate of the 400 thousand forints with which the American billionaire supported the series Századvég. So it can be established that George Soros has been generously supporting Fidesz, Fidesz' leaping into the stem and the studies of the founders of Fidesz. As is the fact that you have earned this support abundantly over the past 25 years. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] Don't you think it's two-faced, opportunist, and uncredited when you're facing your previous fight? How do you like it, Prime Minister, the mercenary? [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2016-06-06-134	Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Prime Minister Viktor Orbán.
u2016-06-06-135	Mr President, Indeed, during the period of the anti-communist movement, we received a number of support as a democratic opposition movement, perhaps even any democratic opposition movement. This has never been hidden, and it is very right that we have been able to achieve the collapse of the communist regime and the withdrawal of the Soviet army from Hungary not only from our own strength, but also from outside forces that are available to us, who are interested in creating democracy in Hungary. To the highest level. You may remember: President Bush has come to Hungary with the assumption that if he cannot meet the leaders of the opposition, among whom I have had the pleasure of being there, that if there is no photo of the President-in-Office taking pictures with the opposition at that time, he will not come to Hungary. There was a great struggle here, and I think it is very right that George Soros mobilized his forces at that time against communism, to break down communism and to withdraw the Soviet army. However, this has nothing to do with the fact that there is a migrant crisis here. [[Intercom from the pro-government benches: That's right!]] This has nothing to do with anti-communist struggles, change of regime or any other matter. It doesn't have anything to do with ethnic issues. The only thing is that there are international forces working to bring migrants to Hungary and to other countries of the European Union as many as possible. [[Crying from the benches of the opposition: Oh, my God!]] This is against the interests of Hungary, and you can call whoever is financing it, whatever merit it has in the former anti-communist period, what it is doing today is contrary to Hungary's national interests, and we, not being mercenaries but representing the interests of our country, must say this clearly. Thank you for your attention. [[A big round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2016-06-06-136	Thank you, Prime Minister, for your reply. I give the floor to Congressman Márton Gyöngyösi in return.
u2016-06-06-137	Prime Minister, there is another narrative that says that Soros grants have a peppery price, and if someone has been monitoring their actions over the past 25 years, then you can determine where you are a liberal party, a pseudo-national party, a government, a opposition, but you have served George Soros's economic, political, social programme, that neoliberal program. [[Dr. Pál Völner: What are you talking about?]] , which completely derailed the real change of regime in Hungary. [[16.20]] Prime Minister, as a believer, I am very pleased to see someone turn in the right direction on the Damascus road, but you usually turn around on the Damascus road, and this raises certain credibility problems in politics. I'm gonna help you get out of this credibility issue. [[Defiance on the pro-government side.]] Three years ago, the Jobbik Movement for Hungary submitted a proposal for a resolution in which we asked for a screening of NGOs and the civil sector. In this we said that if an organization in Hungary receives subsidies above HUF 1 million from abroad, then it should be marked as an agency. After three years, after you wiped it out, we resubmitted it. Support him, Prime Minister, and your faction, and your credibility will be restored. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2016-06-06-138	Mr. Prime Minister, you have a rejoinder.
u2016-06-06-139	I am glad that Hungarian democracy is not in such a bad state that Jobbik's contribution is needed to restore anyone's credibility. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] Secondly, you are speaking on behalf of a party that, a few weeks ago, called for an exit from the European Union, and you have now announced that you would rather stay. Not so long ago, they were national radicals, and now they're freaks. So far, they've been showing off their muscles, and now they're trying to prove their capacity for salon. I am convinced that there are no parties in the Hungarian Parliament against which you can claim any moral claim. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-06-06-140	Thank you, Prime Minister, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Róbert Benedek Sallai, representative of the LMP, wishes to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question: "Do you want the government to review the privatisations of the last 25 years? It's an address. It is for Congressman Robert Benedek Sallai.
u2016-06-06-141	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Mr. Prime Minister, Looks like today's a day to look back for the last quarter of a century. Let me quote the thoughts of András Lánczi, Rector of Corvinus University, and say: "I just wanted to say that nationalization in this country was not called stealing after 48; privatization should not be called robbery after 1988. There is still a system that you can criticize that it is corruption, but I claim that this is the implementation of a political vision. Maybe some people don't like it. I didn't like the privatisation either. It could be a mafia state, but it's still gonna open up the privatization box, and it's gonna blow up the last 25 years, which we can call a change of regime. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. The question is, how does Prime Minister relate to this idea, because it is obvious that this 25-year privatisation process has resulted in the fact that, according to a 1990 situation, when the value of state assets was approximately HUF 1700 billion - which is now said to be HUF 20 000 billion in real terms - 30 percent of that was sold, 10 percent lost in liquidation and liquidation, 15 percent went to municipal and social security authorities, not state trustees - at least we know where it is - and 30-35 percent we have no idea where it is, of which 10-20 percent is the reason we can account for underpriced sales and a pile of disappearances. There's still 10 percent on the state hand. Obviously, the whole process we call privatisation is also due to the consolidation of banks, as it has happened that loans have been borrowed, they have not been repaid, an additional 2,300 billion have gone to bank consolidation in the last 25 years. In the previous cycle, the LMP had a proposal to review the last 25 years. My respectful question to Prime Minister is that you do not see that this is the time, because I tell you honestly that what András Lánczi is talking about is that it could be used to blow up the last 25 years, which we call a change of regime, and I would very much like to blow it up and see what is behind it, where the state's wealth has gone. I look forward to your respectful opinion. Thank you very much.
u2016-06-06-142	Thank you, Congressman. I give the floor to Prime Minister Viktor Orbán. Prime Minister, please.
u2016-06-06-143	Dear fellow Member, If you'll allow me, I'm going to use the possibility that I don't take what you said literally, and I'm not giving you any kind of arson aid. It's also true that for a newborn, all jokes are new. I would therefore like to inform you that there was life in the Hungarian Parliament before your parliamentary appearance in 2014. [[Defiance on the pro-government side.]] When we took over a bankrupt country in 2010, we carried out a lot of investigations, including what you are talking about, and, all in all, we stated that there was no need for further privatisations. Therefore, Hungary's Fundamental Law also states that state and local government property is national property. In addition, I believe that one of Parliament's most important decisions after 2014 was our 2014 law on national assets, which clearly defines how to protect national assets and how to manage them. In addition, I would like to remind you that the government, after closing the privatization era, has turned the course and placed the emphasis on the preservation, enhancement and exploitation of state wealth. This is supported by the fact that the Hungarian State acquired ownership in strategic enterprises such as MOL, Rába, E.ON's gas business, Erste Bank or Budapest Bank. So, on the contrary, as you say, in fact, the growth of public wealth has occurred in the years behind us, so please respectfully acknowledge the government's national wealth-enhancing work. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-06-06-144	Thank you, Prime Minister, for your reply. It is for Congressman Robert Benedek Sallai.
u2016-06-06-145	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr. Prime Minister, I would be willing to do that if we hadn't started the third round of land privatization, which none of the governments have done so far, but yours has undertaken to carry out this highly thoughtful robbery activity. Of course, I respect the fact that there were governments before 2014, but I would not be able to give many praises about them. Obviously, there was a reason that after a while, I said I'd come in, too. [[Defiance on the pro-government side.]] But the last two years haven't had any more serious results. However, I respectfully ask Prime Minister, partly because he's been abrading these benches for 26 years, 24 years longer than I have, and then he's a politician with significantly better abilities than I have: I've had two years to find out that legislation is about how to put his hands on state wealth for the current government. How long would it take you to do that if you're a politician with better abilities than I am, if I've been able to do this for the last two years? That there's nothing more to legislating than how to steal public property? Will this end? Is it possible to put an end to this at some point, and to look back and see what happened? I'm waiting for your answer. Thank you very much.
u2016-06-06-146	Thank you. The Prime Minister is entitled to a rejoinder. Prime Minister, you have the floor.
u2016-06-06-147	I must repeat my earlier statement that in recent years the public wealth in Hungary has not decreased, but has increased. I'm not renaming the specific companies right now. As far as your horse is concerned, indeed, there has been a sale of state land, because the Hungarian state does not farm in private or state land. Therefore, we made the right decision when we decided that one in ten Hungarian farmers could obtain land through the auctions. By the way, the revenue is available, and we will present to Parliament the law on the use of this revenue. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-06-06-148	Thank you, Prime Minister, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Zsolt Csenger-Zalán, representative of Fidesz, wants to ask the Foreign Minister of Foreign Affairs and Trade an immediate question:. Why and for how much did he travel to the US as Prime Minister Gordon Bajnai? It's an address. Mr. Minister has appointed Mr. István Ájgyártó State Secretary to answer the question because of his urgent public mission. I ask the Member if he accepts the person who is responding.
u2016-06-06-149	Yeah.
u2016-06-06-150	Yeah. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2016-06-06-151	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. The current opposition has always liked to dig into the finances of the ruling party, while they regularly forget to sweep around their own house. For a moment, let us overlook the corporate empire of the leader of the Democratic Coalition, Ferenc Gyurcsány, which provided surprising financial data even before the 2014 elections. Let's move on to the Joint-PM Party, which is also a socialist party, whose financial management also deserves a few words. The party's former president, Bajnai Gordon's one-man advisory firm, produced huge sums for the former Socialist Prime Minister, while the party's involvement in the offshore scandal also came to light. Well, in spite of all this, we would expect some modesty from the left, who have recently been fond of digging around to finance the government's travels abroad. Did the left, which has been lying for more than ten years in the morning, noon, and evening, spend what money to travel Bajnai Gordon? The former Socialist Prime Minister visited Egypt, Israel, but visited the United States several times, but the Együtt-PM is surprisingly not so excited about the cost of these trips. As a result, the question arises as to how much Bajnai Gordon travelled as Prime Minister to the United States of America, and the question is why the finances of their former party president do not employ the Együtt-PM so intensively. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] [[16.30]]
u2016-06-06-152	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Secretary of State István Arrowmaker. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2016-06-06-153	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, In 2009 the former Prime Minister Gordon Bajnai made 20 official visits abroad, the total cost of the trips was 190 million 303 thousand 842 forints. Two of the trips took place to the United States, New York from 20 to 24 September 2009, the cost of the trip amounted to 13 million HUF 557 thousand 400, while the other one took place in Washington from 1 to 6 December 2009, the cost of the trip was HUF 35 million 727 thousand 132. [[Noise.]] The two roads totaled 49 million HUF 284 thousand 532. It is also important to note that this set of figures reflects the prices at that time, i.e. the amount not corrected by inflation. In 2010, the former Prime Minister made eight official visits abroad, from 1 January to 29 May. The total cost of the trips was HUF 40 million,546,000. The then government, Ferenc Gyurcsány and Gordon Bajnai, led Hungary to the edge of economic crisis and bankruptcy, while Gordon Bajnai made trips to the world for hundreds of millions of forints. On the other hand, the Orbán government has economically stabilised the country, put the economy on a growing path, and has put foreign policy in the service of Hungarian national interests. At the nuclear security summit Prime Minister Viktor Orbán and his delegation attended the personal invitation of President Barack Obama. The invitation to the nuclear safety summit was a recognition of Hungary's performance in the field of nuclear energy and nuclear safety. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-06-06-154	Thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. I give the floor to Mr Zsolt Csenger-Zalán for a rejoinder.
u2016-06-06-155	Thank you for your answer, Mr. Secretary. I must say that I was not really surprised by what you said, namely the summation, although I myself did not think that two American roads could cost HUF 50 million in times of crisis, as you mentioned here. However, I would rather stress that I would say that the basic point of the question was not to argue about how much the Prime Minister's roads and the government's roads in general cost. I wanted to highlight the double standard that appeared in the second half of the question; so the question is why the finances of their former party president do not employ the PM or the Joint-PM so intensively. Obviously, I don't expect that from you, but it's a sign against double standards. Thank you very much. [[It's a rare round of applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-06-06-156	You have a rejoinder from the Secretary of State. [[For signal:]] Thank you. Secretary of State does not wish to respond. Dear Parliament, Márta Demeter, representative of the MSZP, wants to ask an immediate question to the Minister of the Cabinet Office of the Prime Minister with the title of the typology of 100 billion-dollar government downsizings. Mr. Secretary is here. Congresswoman, you have the floor.
u2016-06-06-157	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary. It is clear to the contrary that you seek to use xenophobia to leverage political capital by selling Hungary's right of establishment for money. What did the Hungarian government do? Because of a one-off decision of 1,200 people, he turned to the European Court of Justice and launched a real communication campaign, but in exchange for a loan, he gave 16,000 people a residence and residence permit. Meanwhile, the broker offshore companies have only made 100 billion forints in the business, and I don't suppose I have to introduce these companies to Minister. If you look at the treatment costs, these companies have won more than 14 million forints on each person. Among the 16,000 people, many Iranian, Syrian and Iraqi citizens could buy Hungarian residence permits or residence rights. After five years, when the bond expires, the state will have a payment obligation of hundreds of billions of HUF, and clearly Hungarian taxpayers will pay the interest rates and the total amount. In response to my previous question, Bence Tuzson said that this is in the country's business interest and that this measure represents only a temporary stay of five years. This is a big lie, because it is only the government's business interest, and we are not talking about a transitional period, but these economic immigrants, these 16,000 people, do get their residence permit. And after the five-year term of these bonds expires, they can stay in Hungary as long as they want. So, Minister, I ask you again: did you, among other things, go to the European Court of Justice because the 1200 people involved did not pay your friends? I'm waiting for your answer. [[A rare applause in the ranks of the MSZP.]]
u2016-06-06-158	Thank you, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Secretary Antal Rogán. Here you go, Minister.
u2016-06-06-159	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and I am truly sorry that you were asked from your faction on the condition of this issue. After all, this could also be the expert experts, because, you know, Madam honourable Member, all the decisions concerning the residency bond programme were referred to by the Hungarian Parliament to the open meeting of the Economic Committee. We have made every decision at an open sitting, and your fellow Members at these meetings, my dear Member, have not asked one question, and have never made one comment. They certainly do not dare to ask questions here in Parliament, but they should, in fact, do so; you know that. Well, on the other hand, ladies and gentlemen, at the time of your administration, if I remember correctly, you were quite used to having offshore companies carrying money out of the country. Although, I apologize, I apologize, there is an offshore company that brought money into the country with the help of Péter Medgyessy, who received a 60 million birthday gift from Alstom to his wife. But with one exception, money was basically taken out of the country in very few cases by offshore companies linked to your politicians or your leaders. That's why for you, it's a very unusual thing to have a program where foreigners bring money into the country. Precisely HUF 250 billion was generated by a programme launched by the Hungarian State at a time when, moreover, our foreign exchange financing caused a lot of difficulties. I think that this programme is a success, and if you compare it with other European countries' programmes, I have to say that this programme is even particularly popular compared to it and follows the same principles that are otherwise implemented in other countries. As far as the immigration issue is concerned, let us be honest, Congresswoman, the reason why we are in two different positions on this matter is because your former government has an immigration strategy. They, the Gyurcsány government, with their decision adopted in 2007, wanted to relocate 1 million Chinese citizens to Hungary. [[It's a rare round of applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-06-06-160	I thank you, Minister, for your reply. In return, I give the floor to Congresswoman Márta Demeter.
u2016-06-06-161	I'm glad you said that, Minister. We are well aware of what happens in the Economic Committee in the Fidesz majority and majority Fidesz votes. We hear from the Hungarian Government many times about asylum and economic immigration that this is a matter of sovereignty and that Brussels cannot decide over the heads of the Hungarian people. Oh, I see. Brussels cannot decide, but the Orbán government and Antal Rogán can decide over the heads of the Hungarian people? Because what would people say if I asked them if they wanted the Hungarian government to let 16,000 economic immigrants into Hungary with permanent residence permits? Have people been asked if they want the offshore companies of government buddies to make a hundred billion dollars on this? And have people been asked if they want to have these economic immigrants paid out of their taxpayers' forints in five years' time, which will mean hundreds of billions to be paid? So the Hungarian government decided over the heads of the people, and at the end of the day the only question remains: the Hungarian people are very curious about it. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] Whether or not these offshore hundreds of billions of dollars will bring money and money to Viktor Orbán and his stróman.
u2016-06-06-162	Congresswoman, the response time is one minute. Dear Parliament, Minister Antal Rogán is entitled to a rejoinder. Mr. Secretary, please.
u2016-06-06-163	Thank you very much for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and If you so think that Hungary should decide on all immigration issues, then you should openly reject the European Commission's immigration strategy. Openly say no, stand by us and say in the referendum that people should go and vote in the referendum and say no to Brussels. [[16.40]] If you will do so, I will believe, Congresswoman, that you are telling the truth. But if they continue, as they say, to sit in the grass, like that particular thing, [[Deterioration in the benches of the ruling parties.]] And in the referendum, you cannot speak clearly, well, honourable Member, then I think that you are actually talking about what you are talking about because you are trying to represent Brussels. And what I can tell you is that I take all the decisions with a calm heart that if people arrive in Hungary who are buying real estate here, they will invest, and they will create jobs for the Hungarian people. I continue to believe that this is always good for the country under all circumstances. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-06-06-164	I thank you, Minister, for your reply. Dear Parliament, János Volner, representative of Jobbik, wishes to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question:. who is Árpád Habony? It's an address. You have the floor, Congressman. [[Noise.]]
u2016-06-06-165	Thank you very much. Mr. Prime Minister, I would like to ask you - very simple question - who is Árpád Habony. Of course, I don't want to know if he's a party puppy or not, by your definition. [[Lajos Korózs Laughing...]] Although, obviously, you can make a better decision than I can. What I want to know is exactly what role you're working on in the government area and what authority you have. I am asking you, Prime Minister, because you have directed people interested in Árpád Habony to the population register, but I see that Árpád Habony is a good friend of several government members, his families have shown up together with the family members of government members on community-sharing sites, and for example the Israeli businessman who made billions of forints on the settlement bond business. We saw Árpád Habony start a new medium, a new newspaper, and immediately orders from the public sector came to him. Szerencségy Zrt., MVM Paks-II., the Hungarian National Trading House, the Liszt Academy, the National Asset Management Institute, the Budapest Funeral Institute, the BKK and several other publicly owned organizations started immediately. This is not a bad start for such a fresh start, and István Tarlós said that Árpád Habony was very effective in communicating the money distribution dispute between the government and him. So the question arises: exactly who is this Árpád Habony, to whom orders are gladly given - it seems - by public companies, to whom even paintings are rented by the National Museum [[János Lázár: The Fine Arts!]] And exactly how authorized you are to work around the government. Thank you very much, Prime Minister. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2016-06-06-166	Thank you, Congressman. I give the floor to Prime Minister Viktor Orbán. Prime Minister!
u2016-06-06-167	Despite your repeated request, my fellow Member, the name of the person in question has not been found on the payment list of any government institution or public firm, and I do not consider myself competent to answer your question. To me, however, the question of who you are, the new leader of Jobbik, who can decide on taxpayers' money as a Member of Parliament seems to be more important. And if someone is as fond and hard-working in other people's lives as you are, perhaps they could be a little more expressive about themselves. János Volner is known to have disappeared in a cemetery along with the accumulation of significant public debt by several companies he founded. It's not a crime in itself. [[Interview from the benches of Jobbik: Miklós Sheszták!]] However, it is already - and this has been proved before the court - that one of its companies, under the control of János Volner, has illegally deducted more than HUF 10 million in traffic taxes. The tax authority, together with tax fines and late payment, asked for HUF 21 400 000 at János Volner's company. As a responsible businessman, János Volner then got rid of his company with a capital of 3 million forints. János Volner, the new leader of Jobbik, is therefore a tax fraud. Thank you for asking. [[A big round of applause in the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2016-06-06-168	Thank you, Prime Minister. I'll give you the floor in return. [[Dr. István Józsa: Árpád Habony?]] Congressman János Volner. Here you go.
u2016-06-06-169	Thank you. Prime Minister, this contains several factual errors. One is that when I sold this business, he didn't have a penny's tax debt. By the way, the correspondence with the NAV that I published on my Facebook page is very clear. It's kind of like when someone sells a car, the new owner breaks the car, and he says it's the last one's fault. But that's not the question. Who is Árpád Habony, Prime Minister? I think it is right to raise it, because if you immediately begin to migrate hundreds of millions of forints of public money to someone, we see the White House here regularly, around Parliament, then you can see that you are entering the government circles here, and obviously you have the right to ask - not just me, but many millions of Hungarian people want to know exactly what the role of Árpád Habony is, who empowered him to do exactly what role he is working for the government. I really hope that's not a secret. Thank you very much. [[Interview from Jobbik's benches: Who is Kaya Ibrahim? Applause in the same place.]]
u2016-06-06-170	Thank you, Congressman. The Prime Minister is entitled to a rejoinder. Prime Minister, you have the floor.
u2016-06-06-171	I repeat that I have not found the name of the person in question on the payment list of any government institution or state firm, so I do not consider myself competent to answer your question. [[Interview from Jobbik's benches: Kaya Ibrahim?]] On the other hand, I would like to continue with what we have just started, and I would also like to comment on your knowledge of economics, since you have studied at the International University of Basic Studies in Russia. Internationally, this university is mostly referred to as a diplomatic factory or a diploma factory, a kind of fake university. [[Intruder from the benches of Fidesz: KGB!]] Anyway, the point is that János Volner got a marketing qualification, and János Volner's marketing is really good. He can sell himself, successfully lead Jobbik's membership and sympathizers. I wish you the best of luck with the faction leadership. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-06-06-172	Thank you, Prime Minister, for your reply. Dear Parliament, László Szászfalvi, a representative of KDNP, wants to ask the Minister of National Development an immediate question: It's an address. The Minister appointed Secretary of State Ákos Kara to answer his urgent public mission. I ask the Member if he accepts the person who is responding.
u2016-06-06-173	Yeah.
u2016-06-06-174	Yeah. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2016-06-06-175	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, We've had plenty of examples. [[Noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] either from our immediate environment, or from the press hundreds of thousands of HUF healing wonder lamps, bedding sets, pulsating magnetic devices. These products have been sold specifically to consumers who are vulnerable to age, credulity and health, thus misleading, often using unfair commercial practices. KDNP launched a consultation on this issue last year. In letters, e-mails, telephones received a lot of complaints and information, as a result of which the faction submitted a bill, which was adopted by this House in December 2015. The amendment of the law was a strict framework for the operation of commodity companies specialising in the tricking of customers. According to the main content elements of the adopted amendment, advertising of the sale of goods linked to the display of goods with a gift application, discount, discount or gift roll was prohibited, strict customer service requirements were introduced, and the possibility of credit placement was abolished at the presentations. Dear Secretary of State, The period since the entry into force of the law may be enough to examine whether the objective set out in the submission of the law, the protection of vulnerable consumers, has been achieved. With all due respect, I ask the Secretary of State: have you managed to achieve the desired impact on the sales of goods linked to the presentation of goods? Are consumers really safer as a result of the legislative amendment adopted? What checks have been carried out to prevent the undertakings concerned from circumventing the rules on customer service, advertising and credit placement? I look forward to Mr Secretary of State's reply. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of KDNP.]]
u2016-06-06-176	Thank you, Congressman. I give the floor to Secretary of State, Ákos Kara. Here you go, Secretary of State. [[16.50]]
u2016-06-06-177	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Indeed, in December 2015, after several steps, we tightened the rules on display of goods, and I report to the Parliament that there has been a decrease in the number of abuses, and in some segments there has been a significant decrease in the number of abuse related to display of goods. Thus, among the parties of the Parliament, the national KDNP has inexorable merits in this regard. Ladies and gentlemen, Indeed, it was the government's intention to reduce the interest of participation by the new rules and thus the number of potential consumers at risk in terms of classical display of goods. Ladies and gentlemen, This year, between 21 March and 15 April, I ordered an extraordinary investigation, ordered by the Ministry of National Development, which we successfully carried out together with the government offices. The experience of this shows that the number of serious scams and scams at classic commodity shows and product shows seems to be faking. This also reduces the attractiveness of these activities. Ladies and gentlemen, We still have work to do, because we see significant stockpilings made by stakeholders in relation to product presentations, and since they obviously want to sell them on the basis of market logic and self-interest, they are looking for new forms, they are looking for tightened product displays, they are starting door-to-door door-to-door display and product presentations. Together with our fellow Members, the government will be able to take further investigations and further measures to further strengthen this type of activity. Thank you very much, Congressman, for your attention. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2016-06-06-178	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, I'll give the floor to the congressman in return. Here you go.
u2016-06-06-179	Thank you for the floor. Thank you, Mr State Secretary, for your reply, and we were happy to hear the results, and I think it is very important that the government continues to do this work, since these companies are trying to circumvent the law with new ways. This means that the authorities must respond to them in a more flexible way. We ask the Ministry of National Development and the Consumer Protection Authority to continue to monitor these specialised companies, their operation and to carry out further checks to detect fraudsters. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2016-06-06-180	Thank you, Congressman. You have a rejoinder from the Secretary of State. You have the floor.
u2016-06-06-181	Ladies and gentlemen, Let us remember that during this period of the last year, newspapers and media products were loud because of the fact that, almost every week, significant fraud, some significant abuse at some trade show, the government was able to take an extremely serious step forward with the Parliament. We must continue to focus on the phenomena that wish to multiply and maintain this condition. We are determined, we are determined to be able to completely eliminate the abuse of product displays and commodity displays. To do this, we respectfully continue to ask for your help. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2016-06-06-182	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, István Ikotity, a representative of the LMP, wants to ask the Minister of Human Resources an immediate question: It's an address. Mr. Minister has appointed Mr. Bence Rétvári as Secretary of State to respond to his urgent public service. I ask the Member whether he accepts the person who is responding, or whether he asks the Minister himself for an answer.
u2016-06-06-183	I'll take it.
u2016-06-06-184	Yeah. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2016-06-06-185	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, The May Other in Politics has been said on many occasions that total nationalization of the school system is the worst possible direction, and the authorities are also taking away the possibility of running educational institutions. With this step, they push the bike back into socialism, because the model in the Kádár system worked that the settlements had no say in education, everything was directed from above. We also see that the Fidesz mayors are protesting against total nationalisation after the entire educational profession, and even the participants of the public education round table convened by the government have stated in their readable reports that there is a need for not less, but more government say-so. It doesn't make sense why they're going up against everyone, and now they're going up against government figures, and they're going up against mayors. But now I would like to ask another important detail of total nationalization: will the new nationalisation wave, which the Secretary of State promised to terminate on 22 March, fail again? Local government associations are talking about a hundred billion HUF item that the municipalities have so far invested in running the 2851 schools that the state is now taking over. At the same time, László Palkovics, State Secretary, spoke of 55 billion forints. Compared to this, it contains HUF 21 billion for the last-minute budget amendment, which represents a solidarity contribution to local governments for taking over operation. Why are the settlements being sabotaged at all? I look forward to Mr Secretary of State's reply.
u2016-06-06-186	Thank you, Congressman. I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári. Here you go.
u2016-06-06-187	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, On the one hand, I believe that the municipalities received the real possibility of self-government after 2010 when they were able to get rid of the HUF 1200 billion that limited the possibilities of the municipalities, where their loan was paid, where their loan was paid, because of the socialist farming of the previous eight years. Compared to this, the granting of management leave by redemption of debt, I believe that this meant the completion of the local government. As far as the maintenance models are concerned, you are well aware, as you have read the minutes of the various meetings of the Public Education Round Table, that those sitting there have clearly said that the current mixed operation system has not fulfilled its expectations, and that the previous management of the municipality has created a huge deficit of hundreds of billions. And if you think about it responsibly, honourable Member, and you look at the last 25 years, that in 1990, when that system was set up, the municipalities received 82 percent of the public direct budget support for running schools, and that went down to 48 percent by 2010, you can see what money was missing from education and why it started to deteriorate and why it was an economic bankruptcy. If we were to accept your proposal now and restore that pre-2010 system, we would once again start on such a 20-year-old track, when sooner or later the same problem would arise. That is why we have said that there is a need for direct public reservation and direct public operation, that the State must bear these costs itself, that we have established a single system, where there is no debate about who should bear the individual costs. The aid granted to municipalities from the budget will be reduced by just as much as the amount transferred to the municipalities for school maintenance and school operation so far. So everything goes from one source to the schools. And you know as well as I do that your 17th budget is worth more than 30 billion for wages and 100 billion forints for operation. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2016-06-06-188	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. I'll give the floor to the congressman in return. Here you go.
u2016-06-06-189	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, This system, which you have set up now, is unknown at European level and even rare at global level; there is no functional model that operates so centralized. In this, we think it's encoded by failure, you pushed the bike in the wrong direction. For a few reasons, I would like to respond to the fact that the municipalities were indebted in 2010. They were, but you know exactly what the consequences of this are, the consequence of the fact that the local government leaders after the autumn speech were mostly fidesz, did not receive the right funding, and that is when the EU projects were launched which had to create its own strength. So there is a reason for this, and I think it is not related to this, we are not talking about the debt of the municipalities for this reason. Secretary of State, we also asked you in the budget debate: if you need 100 billion forints to maintain it, even the Secretary of State says, László Palkovics, that you need at least 55, and you will give 21 in comparison, won't this be a failure, Mr. State Secretary?
u2016-06-06-190	Thank you, Congressman. You have a rejoinder from the Secretary of State. You have the floor.
u2016-06-06-191	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, Here in the parliamentary horseshoe we have heard many times over the past six years - mainly with reference to various international analysts - that what the Hungarian government is doing is going to fail; how many times we have heard that Hungary is only six months away from complete economic collapse, because it uses different methods than other countries offer it. We've heard that a lot, and it didn't work. Fortunately, the economy is expanding in Hungary, this month there are 140 thousand more people working than in the same month of the previous year, because we went our own way and implemented the Hungarian model here in Hungary. [[17.00]] With this, please do not argue that others from abroad say that this model cannot work. And when we create and create this new direct state reservation, we will seek to consult all local government associations, both with the Association of Budapest Local Governments, the Association of Hungarian Local Governments, and the Association of Citys with County Rights, so that we can explain to them how the system is changing, and why this will be better later than it is now. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2016-06-06-192	I thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Péter Ágh, representative of Fidesz, wants to ask the Minister of the Interior an immediate question: in his work, the smugglers. Can increasing pressure be handled at the Hungarian border? It's an address. Minister Károly Kontra has appointed Secretary of State to respond to the urgent public task. I ask the Member if he accepts the person who is responding. [[For signal:]] Yes, I give you the floor, Congressman.
u2016-06-06-193	Dear Secretary of State, This year 13,446 people were arrested for illegal border crossings in Hungary. This also shows that pressure is increasing on the Hungarian-Serbian border section, where further strengthening of border surveillance is important. Macedonia closed its borders at the beginning of March, thereby curbing the Western Balkans migration route. The largest migrant camp was set up in Idomeni, with over 14,000 people living here. These immigrants are already mostly at the Hungarian border, and they say that all of them have come this far with the help of smugglers. Last week's events have shown again clearly that illegal immigrants act violently several times, breaking Hungarian laws, disrupting the order of our settlements. As a consequence, 300 migrants made strong demands in the Kiskunhalas camp, they objected to their detention, care and violence. How can the EU and Germany not see this situation, the people who called these illegal immigrants here? Meanwhile, the German political leadership is once again criticizing our country, the Prime Minister, trying to divert attention from their wrong immigration policy. Instead, they should be concerned about the fact that in Germany new sexual crimes are being committed against women by invited migrants. The Western Balkans route has not been closed, but has been stabilised. But the smugglers are making up more and more tactics or routes. As part of this, the migration route now leads across the sea. Meanwhile, more women or children travelling alone are being launched by smugglers. This year, an average of a thousand unaccompanied children reached Italy every month, but their number is expected to be much more this summer. Dear Secretary of State, On this basis, I ask how the increased pressure at the Hungarian border can be dealt with. Thank you for your attention. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]] [[Dr. János Latorcai, vice-president of the Parliament, takes the chair.]]
u2016-06-06-194	Thank you very much, Congressman. Ladies and gentlemen, Welcome. I give the floor to Secretary of State Károly Kontra. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2016-06-06-195	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, In the European Union, the Government of Hungary first recognised the dangers inherent in illegal migration, we first said that the Schengen borders should be protected and that illegal migrants should be prevented from entering Hungary or the European Union without mass controls. To this end, we established a physical border closure, and then in September 2015 we created and created both legal and lively protection. As a result, we stopped the situation caused by illegal migration by autumn 2015. But we have also said that the danger has not passed, that there is a danger, and unfortunately this is confirmed by the data of the first few months of 2016, the figures you quoted, honourable Member. And indeed, illegal migrants, we find that they are becoming more violent, more aggressive. Therefore, the government decided to physically strengthen the protection of the southern border, the Hungarian-Serbian and the Hungarian-Croatian border section. The government provided HUF 9.3 billion for this, and in addition to this physical reinforcement, we will also ensure a lively reinforcement. Honourable Congressman, There is indeed danger, there is great danger, but the government is doing everything in its power to protect the external borders, to protect the Schengen borders, to protect the Hungarian people, to protect Hungary. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2016-06-06-196	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. A one-minute rejoinder from Congressman Péter Agh. Here you go.
u2016-06-06-197	Thank you for the floor. Dear Secretary of State, The numbers are very talkative, and we need to keep an eye on the signs of time. This weekend, the police caught 382 people for illegal border crossings, five more forgery of authentic documents and four others for smuggling people. In the last 72 hours, the Hungarian-Serbian border section has prevented the illegal entry of 548 police officers into Hungary. That means the pressure is increasing at our borders. To this, we can add that the staff of the Migration Research Institute have recently learned about the situation in Turkey, and they have found that if the EU-Turkish Agreement were to fail, a situation similar to or even worse than last year could arise, so that it could reach our country to a huge extent. I respectfully ask the Secretary of State if we are prepared for this opportunity. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2016-06-06-198	Thank you very much, Congressman. A one-minute rejoinder is also due to Mr. Secretary of State. Here you go.
u2016-06-06-199	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, We are indeed strengthening border protection, creating another transit zone at Asotthalom, and the government has submitted T/10526. Amendment of the laws necessary to achieve the widespread applicability of the asylum procedure at the border. We will soon vote on this. They also contribute to achieving the objective of ensuring that no migrant is allowed to stay illegally in Hungary. We will do everything we can to ensure that no terrorist can enter Hungary as a result of cooperation between the determining bodies, the Immigration and Nationality Office, the police, the Counter-Terrorism Centre and the services. The most important thing for us is to maintain public order and public security in Hungary, guarantee the safety of the Hungarian people, which is why we are working, and we will continue to do so in the future. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2016-06-06-200	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Congresswoman Ildikó Bangóné Borbély, representative of the MSZP, wishes to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question:. Your mistake is certain that Hungarian families must pay? It's an address. Congresswoman's got the floor. Here you go.
u2016-06-06-201	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Prime Minister, During the 2010-14 cycle, even those who didn't want to know the name of Lajos Simicska, the former economic director of Fidesz, could know the name of Lajos Simicska. Közpép Zrt. is a member of Simicska's interests. and its subsidiaries achieved dizzying economic success in public procurement and state orders during the post-government change period. By the end of 2012, Közép won more than 300 billion forints of public procurement and in 2013 it won 358 billion forints of public procurement. However, the companies linked to Lajos Simicska were not only successful in the construction sector. In 2015, this fruitful relationship began to rot, and the Orbán-Simicska war broke out, and the Hungarian taxpayers became victims, see M4. At the beginning of June this year, the news appeared that Hungarian taxpayers could lose more than one billion forints on the fact that Közép Zrt., belonging to Lajos Simicska's interest, was banned from the public procurement market last year. Then, on 2 June, it turned out that the asphalt business had ended, and our country had to pay a penalty of HUF 48 billion, because there was a lot of corruption-prone public procurement in road construction, partly funded by EU funding. If we look at it, there were interests of Lajos Simicska. Mr. Prime Minister, We are talking about a penalty of HUF 50 billion, which Hungarian taxpayers have to pay. I ask the Prime Minister: who is responsible for these penalties? And is it really for the Hungarian taxpayers to pay for this? I'm looking forward to your reply.
u2016-06-06-202	Thank you very much. I give the floor to Prime Minister Viktor Orbán. Here you go, Prime Minister.
u2016-06-06-203	Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Our government has brought good and not bad for people and families, as opposed to your claim. We saved them from the foreign exchange loan. [[Moore from the ranks of MSZP and Jobbik.]] , reduced rent, created 500 000 new jobs, introduced a family tax system, started a home-building system, significantly and continuously raise the minimum wage, from the age of three we give each child a kindergarten, broadened the free meal, and pension increases also took place. [[17.10]] All in all, I must say that if we want to draw a balance, because that is what you started your contribution in the end, then I must say that the country has won with the government of Fidesz. As far as the specific case is concerned, the asphalt case before 2010, your case, your case. I don't understand why they're throwing it at us. You screwed that up! [[John Lazarus: That's right!]] You have negotiated that with the European Union! [[John Lázár: That's the way it is!]] All the cases that we are talking about are mostly, if not all, but mostly before 2010. Why are you making this up to me? [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-06-06-204	Thank you very much, Prime Minister. It's for a rejoinder from the congresswoman. Here you go, Congresswoman.
u2016-06-06-205	Thank you, Mr. President. No one can cross their own shadows. If a politician doesn't stick to his previously spoken thoughts and thinks only of his momentary popularity, he moves away from his former self, then sooner or later he will be morally destroyed, empty and start to rumble like a cocoon in the fall when the wind blows. Orbán said that. You have been empty for a long time, Prime Minister, you are like a dried-up poppy cocoon, and now the wind is not blowing in Hungary. You don't look like yourself at all, Prime Minister. First, look at what you have promised the Hungarian people at some point, it is true that after 2010, we will only continue, but an empty poppy cocoon is worth more than you, Prime Minister. Thank you very much.
u2016-06-06-206	One-minute rejoinder, Prime Minister. Here you go, Prime Minister.
u2016-06-06-207	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and I'm sorry that you've turned this whole thing into a personal front, because you don't want to be rude to a lady, but we have to admit and recall that you are actually the professional alarm of your own party. I would ask everyone to recall that you were the one with whose face the country was settled, and in the referendum on dual citizenship you said with your face that each Hungarian citizen would cost HUF 167 thousand each for dual citizenship. He was scaring his own country! [[Noise and interruptions in the pro-government benches, among them: Shame! Ew! A big round of applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-06-06-208	Thank you very much, Prime Minister. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, It's 5:12 p.m., and we're at the end of Question Time. [[It's a short break.]] Ladies and gentlemen, Please take your seats. We'll get back to work. The Commission's reports on the amendment of certain laws relating to the entry into force of the Law on State Officials and the discussion of the summarised amendment follow. The government referral is T/10723. The Commission's non-autonomous texts are also available on the Parliament's IT network. Dear Parliament, The debate will be the first to present the position of the Legislative Committee within a 15-minute time frame. I give the floor to Congressman Vas Imre, rapporteur of the committee. Here you go, Congressman.
u2016-06-06-209	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, I hereby inform the Parliament that the Legislative Committee discussed T/10723 on 2 June 2016. the 2016 LII on State Officials. A bill amending certain laws relating to the entry into force of law was submitted by the committee by 26 votes in favour, 4 against and 1 abstention. [[In the notary seat, Dezső Believing is replaced by Loránt Hegedűs.]] The summarised amendment contains the motion of the Judicial Committee, on the one hand, and the TAB's own proposals, on the other, which specify the committee's proposal in one point. The amendment also contains provisions designed to avoid technical clarification or coherence in the light of the provisions of the Act on the National Tax and Customs Office and the bill amending certain laws relating to counter-terrorism, and given that the Law on State Officials has been published, it is proposed in the summary amendment that the title of this proposal is the LII of 16th year. It concerns the amendment of certain laws relating to the entry into force of law. With the adoption of the recently adopted Law on State Officials, we have come closer to the goal of establishing for civil service officials a professional order and a related salary system where professional knowledge is valued. [[Dr. Lajos Szűcs is replaced by Attila Gelencsér in the notary seat.]] The establishment of the Public Officials' Faculty made it necessary to transfer the legal institution to administrative legislation by amending a number of fundamental laws. I therefore call on my fellow opposition Members who feel responsible for those working in the public administration to support the bill, as they have done in the case of the bill or the basic proposal. Thank you for listening. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-06-06-210	Thank you very much, Congressman. I respectfully ask Mr Zoltán Kovács, State Secretary, if he wishes to speak on behalf of the rapporteur. [[For signal:]] Yeah. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2016-06-06-211	Mr President, Dear Parliament, The government supports the single proposal. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-06-06-212	Thank you very much. I'd like to inform you that you'll have nine minutes and 36 seconds before closing. Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, No rapporteur was presented by the designated Judicial Committee. The speeches will now take place in the time frame on the agenda, which I will ask to be published on the table. A two-minute comment will not be possible in the course of the debate. I will ask my fellow Members who wishes to speak in the debate. [[There's no candidate.]] I don't see any contact. The debate is closed. I will ask Mr Secretary of State if he has anything else to say, not to what was said in the debate, because it was only said by the rapporteur of the committee, but in this regard, because he has roughly nine and a half minutes. [[17.20]]
u2016-06-06-213	Mr President, Dear fellow Members, I do not want to use the opportunity, the 9 minutes, but I would just like to say that the fellow Members at committee meetings supported those technical amendments, and that the committees helped legislate to produce a more precise, precise, technically well-founded law. As far as the substance is concerned, the basic question has been settled earlier on the basis of the House's decision, given that, together with the average wage increase of 30 per cent, the State Officials Act itself will enter into force on 1 July, as the President of the Republic has announced. The details of this are being broken down, in fact 79 laws are being transposed before Parliament, with some 17,000 people at the district offices. A separate relationship is established with this bill, but the former Kttv. is available as the underlying legislation. We believe that in the 12 cardinal laws we are not concerned with anything of substance, but simply with the new law that the President has proclaimed, we are leading it through this. In view of the fact that no proposal for an individual amendment has been tabled, the Government supports the single proposal, which was adopted by the Legislative Committee at the meeting on 2 June, which was otherwise referred to by Mr Vas. Dear fellow Members, Thank you for your support so far, and we hope that in the final vote tomorrow, both the half and the pivotal parts will go through, because with a technical amendment it will be round, so the two legislative proposals will complement each other. Thank you very much.
u2016-06-06-214	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Thank you very much for raising the House's awareness that the decisions will take place tomorrow. Thank you. It follows from the 2015 CXLIII on public procurement. The Commission's reports on the amendment of the Act and the debate on the draft amendment. By our Fidesz colleagues János Lázár and Roland Mengyi T/10632. The submission submitted and the Commission's non-individual documents received are available on the Parliament's IT network. First, the position of the Legislative Committee and the opinion of the minority will be presented in a total time frame of 15 minutes. First, I give the floor to Roland Megyi, the rapporteur of the committee, who has an eight-minute window. Here you go, Congressman.
u2016-06-06-215	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform the Parliament that on 2 June 2016 the Legislative Committee discussed the 2015 CXLIII. A bill amending the Act was tabled by the Committee with 23 votes in favour and 7 non-voting amendments and a summary report. The draft amending proposal contains the amendments proposed by the Economic Committee and the TAB's own proposal, which clarifies the text of the Committee, the Economic Committee, in point 1. This provision provides for the possibility of launching a public procurement procedure for undertakings which are definitively condemned in a competition monitoring procedure. The standard text shall contain in this form the conditions under which the contracting authority may request exemption by a specific decision of the government. It is of a guarantee nature that an exemption initiative may only be submitted by the contracting authority before the opening of the procurement procedure and may be requested if a significant part of the economic operators of the market concerned by the procedure are subject to exclusion. It should be pointed out that an economic operator which cannot be excluded from the procurement procedure on the basis of self-cleaning is not an excluded economic operator when calculating a significant part of the market involved in the procurement procedure. On the basis of the amending proposal, the government will decide, in transparent and transparent, responsible individual cases, not to apply the grounds for refusal in question in order to ensure competition, so that we hope that public-money entities will be able to make cheaper purchases than if there are unrealisticly narrow operators who can only make offers. As a result of what has been said, it is in our fundamental interest to adopt the proposal, which also takes into account the rules of the EU Public Procurement Directives, which is why I am asking for the support of the proposal. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-06-06-216	Thank you very much, Congressman. Ladies and gentlemen, Since one of the conditions for speaking in Parliament is the presence of the rapporteur, and this is not being met at the moment, the minority opinion cannot be delivered. I respectfully ask the rapporteur, Mr Mengyi Roland, if he wishes to speak now. [[For signal:]] Yeah. Here you go.
u2016-06-06-217	Thank you very much for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, By reading an amendment to the Public Procurement Act, you know that it typically aimed at accelerating and improving the involvement of EU funds with two items. One identified the non-procurement procedure below HUF 25 million, and the other also opened the possibility of the occasional involvement of undertakings condemned by the competition supervision procedure in the procurement procedure. The first was less critical to anyone, typically in connection with the competition surveillance procedure, of the opposition lines raised points to our amendment, and even in the general debate, the government assured us that it would be open to a solution that would be transparent and be able to deal with these issues with full responsibility. The Committee on Economic Affairs also made its amendment, which was clarified by the Legislative Committee, and this was now presented to the House in the summary amendment. As I said in the Commission's opinion, I call on my fellow Members to support these amendments, as it concerns the speed and effectiveness of the involvement of European Union funds in the small and medium-sized enterprises sector in the Hungarian economy. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-06-06-218	Thank you very much, Congressman. I would like to inform you that if you wish to speak in the closing word, you will have a timeframe of 8 minutes and 20 seconds. Dear Parliament, I will now ask Nándor Csepreghy, Secretary of State, if he wishes to speak on behalf of the government. [[For signal:]] Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2016-06-06-219	Yes, Mr. President. Thank you very much for the floor. The debate on the amendment of the Public Procurement Act decided a lot of questions here in the opening debate and in the TAB. The first and most important question was how we could find a balance where public spending and life-likeness could balance business decisions. I would like to start with the lighter question, and I would like to start by talking about a procurement procedure that is not possible in the case of 25 million forints, because I think and this, I think, could also become clear to Congressman Tukacs on the TAB that the use of the public procurement procedure in this round is not justified because, in the case of a reimbursable source, we are talking about an investment in which the State is essentially lending a loan to an entrepreneur that receives a loan on a nominal basis. So what service or product the contractor buys during his selection process is more expensive than what would be market-based, it is not damage to the State, it is damage to the entrepreneur, because he has to repay the higher value to the State. Therefore, in any case, the State will be able to recover the money that the contractor is essentially pre-empting, and therefore it cannot be interpreted that the Hungarian State would be harmed when the public procurement exemption is granted to the recipient contractor in the event of the use of reimbursable resources. In the case of the other question, which would exempt from the non-compete procedure, when the original amendment came before the House, it was said that, in accordance with the EU procurement directive, the contracting authority would have the power to decide that, knowing the relevant market conditions, knowing the size of the potential tenderers, it would be possible to decide that, if competition is not ensured in the event of the application of restrictive conditions, it would not take into account the previous exclusion of the competition authority, which affects potential tenderers, but to remove this prohibition in essence. [[17 .30]] This is what I said on behalf of the government during the opening debate that the government is willing to accept a version that allows the opposition to have the opportunity, and anyone who wishes to look into the use of public funds to make a government decision on the exemption from this ban, and therefore we are talking about a decision in public opinion, which gives us sufficient transparency and assurance that we will open this option only with appropriate justification. I believe that the first proposal should be business-life and that the second proposal should also be supported by the opposition in the sense that the opposition mentioned the lack of transparency as one of the weakest points of the original amendment proposal. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-06-06-220	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, No rapporteur was drawn up by the designated Economic Committee. It is now up to the Members to speak within the time-frame on the agenda. There is no possibility of a two-minute speech during the debate. I give the floor first from the MSZP Group to Mr István Józsa. Here you go, Congressman.
u2016-06-06-221	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear House, The closing debate on a very special proposal is now under way, because the Public Procurement Act is intended to be amended by individual representatives in the context of an amendment by the Chancellor, Minister János Lázár, and, fortunately, Member Roland Mengyi has joined this submission. This does not change the fact that it is not a government referral, so it is questionable whether it was inter-relationship. The other is the subject of the main motion itself that, according to the proposal submitted as an individual representative, it would not be compulsory to exclude from public procurement undertakings or to be exempted under a government decision, who have previously been legally condemned and excluded in a competition supervision procedure. I know very well that this concerns certain players in the financial sector and so to speak, a large part of the sector, but it would have been clearer in our view if it had been written down that it was this and this thing, or at least some obligation to open a loophole in the framework of the government decision... There is therefore no clear guarantee that, on the basis of these aspects, which have been included in the proposal or clarified by the modifiers, the proposal has improved in favour of itself, so that the codification problems have been reduced in it - but the fundamental question remains that the government can also decide to exempt previously excluded actors that are not sure that it means increasing competition in the context of the involvement and delivery of EU funds to firms. What the Secretary of State says, therefore, is to strike a balance, the objective of secrecy and transparency, as well as the aim of the public good and public procurement, is to accept the most economical offer, not really a serious argument, which he says, that in the case of reimbursable subsidies, i.e. preferential loans, public money cannot be harmed. We see that it is worth it, because the entrepreneur can overpay it with the money he receives as a preferential loan. [[Nándor Csepreghy: You have to get it back from him!]] And then he'll pay you back, of course, he'll pay you back, but it's only possible he'll ship some of it somewhere else. So if the transparency gets out of this, if the public procurement goes out, then it can go into channels... and I understand that in the end, the public money will be returned to the original creditor, the state. So if, let's say, the business does not fail, it does not disappear completely, it will not be liquidated - unfortunately, it has already been done - but it may not provide sufficient protection, but this HUF 25 million at least, these subsidies, if they want to serve a serious industrial development or economic development goal even for SMEs, typically exceed this HUF 25 million. This proposal therefore allows for things that would be difficult to accept in a coherent transparency approach. So I acknowledge that this amendment was originally made in the colours of the authors and the Economic Committee, that they tried to remedy the problems raised in the general debate, but I do see that the original problem, that it gives the government the opportunity for an exceptional procedure, and that it also gives the government legal authority to discharge in cases for which it was previously a final ban, so that this yes is not a yes, and I do not regulate it if the government considers it to be an uncertain regulatory environment, where the possibility of the government, the possibility of its decision by law, extends to cases where there has been a final condemnation in a competition supervision procedure. Therefore, the Government decision can repeal something on the basis of this legislative mandate, which, in our view, would not otherwise be possible in the rule of law, so we do not consider this law to be coherent with the rule of law approach. Thank you, Mr. President.
u2016-06-06-222	Thank you very much, Congressman. From the LMP Group, Mr András Schiffer is the leader of the Group. Here you go, Mr. Group Leader.
u2016-06-06-223	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, I have already said in the general debate that the circumstances surrounding the submission of the bill are rather specific. On the day before, Andy G. Vajna, the oligarch of the bravest Hungarian nickname student, had his interests condemned by the Hungarian Competition Authority for a cartel act, and the next day a bill comes in that gives an optional exemption for illegal competition actions, an optional route. On 9 May, the competition council decision condemning András Vajna's companies and interests is prohibited because of a competition act, and on 10 May a bill is issued that allows the government to issue a good Fidesz passport even in such a case. History isn't irrelevant either. During the Fidesz regime since 2010, the second public procurement law has now entered into force on 1 October last year, which the Prime Minister said was the most stringent public procurement law in Europe. Indeed, it was stricter than the previous Fidesz public procurement law, but after two months, it was seen that the orange public procurement market could not function without buddies and relatives, which is why political leaders had to let their kinship back into the public procurement market. Now they see - why? - that the public procurement market cannot operate in such a way as to be condemned by a strict, unconditional, non-discriminatory reason, rightly, from the area of public procurement. In the Legislative Committee, the Secretary of State said, on the one hand, what he said here in the general debate, what problems this rule causes in the banking sector. I would now like to confirm that the LMP has already represented in the debate on public procurement laws, both laws 11 and 15 that those who are prohibited by competition acts are excluded from public procurement by virtue of the law ex lege. It is very right that such a rule was put in place for the entry into force on 1 October. [[17.40]] If there is a problem with the banking sector, then this could be resolved with a very simple codification solution, because then it can be said that there is a passage containing the absolute grounds for exclusion, and in a next paragraph it can be said - let us now agree on whether or not we agree on this - that we would only have a different level of debate - that we would exempt economic entities subject to the credit institution law, or, let us say, only credit institutions, from the absolute exclusion. This is what the Secretary of State said in the legislative committee debate that what is happening in the banking sector may happen in other markets, in other sectors, that when ordering a certain goods or services, the issuing body simply does not find anything - otherwise it is sad enough if that is the case - who would not have been dissipated because of an act of competition in the last three years. Now we let it be good to create economic relations that there is no sector in which such a situation exists - this would also be worth a few rounds. But even if the government or the Secretary of State had this type of problem, he would not have to grant the government the discretionary power to exempt individual businesses, as they provide it with the amendment proposal, but it could be said, under normative, objective conditions, that if within a certain period of time, i.e. within three years, the percentage of the players were subject to such an act, so in Hungarian: they were condemned by a competition council, then the sector could be excluded by a decision from the absolute exclusion. So it could be said that if there is too much abuse in the banking sector, public procurement could not be launched, then the banking sector could be exempted. If all traders in the perfume market fall into some kind of competition adjournment, they would not be able to obtain perfumes, let us say, to the Parliamentary Office, then let's have a government decision to exempt the perfume market from the absolute exclusion. It would be a clear, clear speech if we talked about sectors. But your economic policy for six years isn't about sectors, it's not about developing sectors, it's about recapitalisation of certain people, certain families, and here's the dog. You're not trying to free certain sectors, and you're trying to free Andy G. Vajna. That's what this bill is all about. Thank you very much.
u2016-06-06-224	Thank you very much, Mr. Group Leader. Mr György Szilágyi is next from the Jobbik Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2016-06-06-225	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Indeed, unfortunately, we are faced with a school example of personal legislation. Nothing else happened but one of Andy G. Vajna's companies made a mistake, and he couldn't go through public procurement procedures. You know, I'm talking about Andy G. Vajna, whose other company managed to present its results just this week, these days, and it turns out that with that company, it earns HUF 16.5 million a day, HUF 11 500 per minute. To have a small basis for comparison: a Hungarian employee who has a net wage of, say, 108 thousand forints, how much do you think he makes per minute? 2 forints 50 forints; on the other hand, Andy G. Vajna earns 11 500 forints. He needed this amendment now, because he is a government commissioner, he can do it, and you are open to this kind of legislation, which is why we have this amendment to the Public Procurement Act. During the general debate on the proposed amendment of the law, I had the opportunity to express my concerns. The version of the bill currently tabled after the Commission's hearing, if I may say so, is worse than the original proposal, although it was not a good one either. The Commission's summary amending proposal would allow the government, with its individual decision, to exempt economic operators excluded from public procurement from exclusion as a consequence. Let us not forget that we are talking about economic operators who have committed irregularities or committed fraud in previous procurement procedures, or have influenced the purity of competition to such an extent that they have been definitively established, inter alia, from the exclusion of the possibility to tender in a public procurement procedure. According to the reasons for the summary proposal, it is now necessary to provide for the possibility of granting an individual waiver so that the government can decide in a decision that the excluded actors can participate in the proceedings - and now one of the most beautiful parts: - to ensure effective competition. That's the reason. Ladies and gentlemen, Do we want to ensure competition with those who have previously been severely justified and who have committed a final determination by the competent authorities in breach of the purity of competition? That's a bad joke. Is this supposed to ensure a clean race to let them back in? We see once again an example of government mercy management in this amending proposal. Let's see what happens when this law is passed by you, and this law will apply. The contracting authority shall initiate the Government to grant an individual acquittal to an economic operator who has previously been banned from public procurement for fraud and, first, the tenderer shall apply to the Government. The government will grant this waiver, and then, after all this, when this has happened, the contracting authority will initiate its proceedings, on which it is expected that the otherwise excluded fraudulent economic operator will win. Therefore, the contracting authority will ask for the exemption when the procurement procedure has not yet started. Therefore, the demand for purchase is not yet public to the operator, but the contracting authority already knows from whom it wants to buy and is already lapping at the government for an individual discharge. It's state-level corruption, it's institutionalized shit. The government's decision will now protect the players in the pre-defatted public procurement; the government's individual decision and acquittal will legitimise unfair business. The anachronism and maladministration of the situation are evident, and the immorality of regulation is blatant. Fortunately, those responsible for these crimes are known and will be known later, as those involved in the decision-making of the government will be easy to find, easy to identify when the current government is finally expelled and choose a more worthy, dedicated and fairer force over them. Then these cases can be brought up again, these cases can be investigated and the responsibility of those who have made Hungary this way can be stated. As you will be able to say, the responsibility of those who voted for, say, Andy G. Vajna the discounts, the tax incentives who voted for him to be the market leader here in the casino industry, who voted for him to be his offshore companies as government commissioner, and to bring enormous wealth to these offshore companies when you pressed the button, then your responsibility is all there. It is your responsibility that today in this country, where there are 4 million people living below the minimum living age, where there are 2 million people living in extreme poverty, where two thirds of the workers do not bring home the average salary, in a situation like this, people like Andy G. Vajna can earn 16,5 million a day. You made it possible for him when you pressed the button. My fellow Members, I say only one thing. All of them, including me, are deeply despised by the Hungarian society because of such votes. Hungarian society condemns me deeply and tells me how much money Parliamentary Members make. Do you know what 16,5 million forints means? That in one day Andy G. Vajna makes almost three times as much in one year as each of you. That's what they've made possible for this man. Do you think that's acceptable? Because not in my opinion. In my opinion, it is not acceptable that in such a country, such people who have not put anything on the table, other than living their lives abroad, call such people, say Viktor Orbán, the bravest Hungarian? No, I call them the bravest Hungarians who stayed here in the country, and under these circumstances, when they may earn only HUF 2 50 a minute, they still work here, in this country, building and helping this country, because they are the reason we can support it, and because of them we can still give pensions to pensioners. It's not the Andy Vajna who are taking their 6 billion forints to offshore companies. And now, with this law, they want to favor this man. In my opinion, this is outrageous. I would ask you, although you are hardly in the benches, you will not get to the others to think about whether this is appropriate for you, so did you think of the parliamentary assembly. In my opinion, this is outrageous. So I'm asking you not to create such an opportunity. [[17.50]] As has already been said here, there can be a reasonable explanation that if we try to help sectors not to make it impossible and not to make it impossible for them to operate, but to create laws for individuals, specifically for one person, we do not believe that this is appropriate, and I do not think that it is worthy of your parliamentary oath. Thank you so much for listening. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2016-06-06-226	Thank you very much, Congressman. I would like to ask my fellow Members if they still wish to speak in the debate. [[There's no candidate.]] I don't see any contact. The debate is closed. I will ask Mr Mengyi Roland if he wishes to respond to what has been said in the debate. [[On Dr. Mengyi Roland's mark:]] Here you go, Congressman.
u2016-06-06-227	Thank you very much for the floor. Just very briefly, not taking advantage of anyone's patience. I see that both the LMP and the MSZP and Jobbik completely misunderstand or misunderstand this bill, and even the amendment added to it by the Economic Commission and the Legislative Committee. Let me be clear: it is not a matter of the government's decision - which you see clearly and clearly - completely settles the responsibilities in a transparent manner, and you see every decision - so it is not about the ability of certain companies, companies or people to be released in this procedure. The point is that in individual cases, when there is no suitable economic operator on the market, precisely because of the reasons for the competition monitoring procedure, it can exempt you from individual calls, and this is not for one company, but for everyone who can be contacted in the calls or may be involved in the calls. So this unique discharge for one person is a complete misunderstanding, as you see it or want to see it. It is a methodological debate that has been brought up by all of us as to why we are not releasing sectors or industries in a quasi-positive discriminatory way. I think that this would be a wrong answer, because it is not even about the need to exempt certain industries in the long term or forever, or certain sectors, but also in these cases, it is only in the specific call with which the contracting authority cannot find economic operators that are not affected by the exclusion in connection with the call. So it is not even necessary to exempt sectors in the long term. So the answer you're saying is wrong. I believe that the amendment by the Committee on Economic Affairs, as amended by the TAB, provides sufficient answers to these points, so I continue to ask you to support this proposal in order to ensure the efficient and rapid involvement of the Hungarian economy, businesses in the economy and EU funds. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-06-06-228	[[Without sound:]] Thank you very much, Congressman. The decisions will take place tomorrow. I would like to note to all those who did not sign up on the push-button that, following the national closing, the Rules of the House do not allow the speech. Thank you very much. [[Sándor Font: No sound! The sound system is restored.]] I would like to inform all those who have not logged in by means of a push-button, but wanted to speak, after the end of the debate, the Rules of the House no longer allow anyone to speak. Thank you. The Commission's report on the amendment of certain compensation laws follows a debate. By our fellow Members János Lázár, János Pócs and Pál Völner T/10727. The submission submitted and the Commission's non-individual documents received are available on the Parliament's IT network. I would like to ask Mr János Pócs, on behalf of the authors, if he wishes to speak at the beginning of the debate. [[On the sign of János Pócs:]] At the end. Then you'll have ten minutes. With all due respect, I would like to ask the Secretary of State Mariann Water East if she wishes to speak. [[Dr. Water East on Mariann's signal:]] He doesn't want to speak. I'll open the debate. I ask my fellow Members if anyone wishes to speak. [[For signal:]] Mr Zoltán Magyar asked for the floor from the Jobbik Group in the framework of a time-frame debate. I will also inform you - sorry, I will give you the floor immediately afterwards, Congressman - that two-minute speeches are not possible.
u2016-06-06-229	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Fellow Members! As we have already said in the general debate, Jobbik is very interested in closing the process and system of compensation fairly and finally putting an end to the unsustainable state that is virtually constantly present in this country, poisoning the lives of many families and ruining their everyday lives. This proposal is obviously not appropriate. He's trying to get order in a small corner. The direction itself could also be supported by Jobbik, so we have no problem with the proposal itself in this form. At the same time, we would like to see my amendment to ensure that the land that is thus owned by the state remains national-owned, since we can see that the government is currently experiencing a serious turnaround of the state's land, and that they are in fact going against what has been proclaimed before, i.e. that state land is being squashed and privatised. This is what my amendment seeks to prevent. The person who appeared at the committee meeting from the point of view said that this was not a secret intention. I managed to pull it out of the second question that the state wanted to acquire these land in such a way that it later privatized it and sold the so-called "Earth to the farmers" program. So we disagree. If my amendment were accepted, which would assure us that the land thus owned by the State would remain national, we would be able to support this proposal without further delay, but not otherwise. Thank you, Mr. President. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2016-06-06-230	Thank you very much, Congressman. I would like to inform my fellow Members that the designated Committee on Agriculture has not presented a rapporteur, which is why we have started with a speech from its Members. Other speeches will follow. I ask my fellow Members if they still wish to make use of the opportunity to speak. Yes, Mr Font Sándor of the Fidesz Group has applied for a speech. Here you go, Congressman.
u2016-06-06-231	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Not opening up to what was said in the general debate, but partly responding to the amendment that was made at the meeting of the Committee on Agriculture and which was now resurfaced by my fellow Member, Zoltán Magyar: we indicated that we did not support it, since the cultivation of land owned by the state takes place in the framework of the programme for farmers under the largest transparency, open auction. Of course, they criticize this, and we think that finally these lands can finally be brought to the owners, farmers. I would add that the compensation process that the then governments of the nineties - the Antall government and the Horn government - had been discussed. That way, everyone's smart, of course. At that time, at the dawn of the regime change, this was not clearly visible and matured, everyone, all the governments of that time throughout Europe, i.e. among the former socialist countries that were struggling with the change of regime at that time, tried various techniques. It is a fact that the issue of compensation tickets and land for the unfinished and still stuck in today is being dealt with definitively by this motion. In the midst of twenty-five years, no government has dared to initiate what to do with it. There were many theories, discourses and conferences, and everything else was put out as civil society organisations, on and off government, but no one showed any determination that could be implemented and stepped into action. Therefore, with the support of the Government, the Government and the three authors decided to close this issue, which concerns land, permanently in accordance with the motion submitted. This motion will also be supported by the Fidesz Group in the final vote. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-06-06-232	Thank you very much, Congressman. Mr Zoltán Magyar has applied to speak again from the Jobbik Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2016-06-06-233	Thank you, Mr. President. I just have to react very briefly. We do not dispute that this is some progress, but if my memories do not deceive me - but if so, then Mr President will correct me - the rapporteur said that it will affect so much. [[18.00]] However, no one is serious about it, and I hope that the area lost or disputed in the various difficult cases of compensation would be the thousand hectares in Hungary today. This affects a small segment, as I said, in a very good way. Our problem is that the government opposes its previous firm position and wants to privatise these areas. I, too, say that we settle the status of these, and I believe that this is an appropriate method, to be owned by the state, but do not get under a hammer, because we do not want to sell this land to Lőrinc Mészáros and the others, but we, bettermen, want to know this land for our grandchildren in the ranks of national wealth. Overall, we have so many problems with this proposal. Thank you. [[It's a rare applause in the ranks of the Jobbik.]]
u2016-06-06-234	Thank you very much, Congressman. I would like to ask my fellow Members if anyone else wishes to take the opportunity to speak. [[There's no candidate.]] I don't see any contact. The debate is closed. Then I would like to ask Mr János Pócs again whether he wishes to make a national closing. [[For signal:]] Here you go, Congressman. Time frame's ten minutes.
u2016-06-06-235	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, T/10727 on the amendment of certain compensation laws Mr.Hungarian, who kept reporting all the details of the bill, whether in the main speaker's or in the Commission's or in Parliament's debate, did not have to pull anything out twice or three times. Your last thought is much more talkative as to why you do not want to support this amendment. You just said that we good-looking boys would like to keep this opportunity for our grandchildren. [[Hungarian Zoltán: Each national state.]] You good-looking people would like to keep these lands for your grandchildren, which is what the whole debate in Parliament has been about since the programme for the farmers started. It's out of your league, and it's out of the question that you couldn't do any better, and you wouldn't do anything else, but you'd like me to make sure that someday, someday, if you were on the government, I'd take the same steps as you put it, for the grandchildren of the good guys. On the other hand, my fellow Members, no matter how much they deny it, deny it, deny it, deny it, and frighten people at the time about who will be in the hands of the Hungarian land, there have been public auctions. And all those scandals, those troubles you predicted, nothing happened, because at the public auction, the reels weren't labeled with righty, fidesz or MSZP logos. [[There are constant interruptions from Jobbik's ranks.]] Anyone could participate in the public auctions and anyone could continue to participate. Under the land sales law, a legitimate candidate can win, and this requires not a party logo, but a public auction. Ladies and gentlemen, For decades, the President has said that there has been a question for 25 years. It is no coincidence that there were no amendments from the benches of the MSZP and that they did not participate in the debate, since they had three cycles to conclude this unfair and outrageous compensation process. The Socialists didn't do anything about it back then. In fact, in a Commission debate, they said that they would be able to support it if it were not attached to the name of John Lazarus. I think that it was a very weak argument to support a case or not to support it in relation to whom it will be linked in the list of authors. I believe that the government and the Fidesz fraction believe that this compensation process must be completed. There was a chance for everyone to make a better presentation than what the government put on the table. No one could put a better one on the table. In this spirit, I would ask my fellow Members in the pro-government and opposition benches to support this proposal. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[It's a rare round of applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-06-06-236	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, The decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting. The Commission's report on the Sixth Amendment to the Fundamental Law of Hungary is now under discussion. By MEPs Lajos Kósa, Gergely Gulyás, Imre Vas fideszes, as well as Péter Harrach, István Simicskó, Imre Vejkey and György Rubovszky KDNP T/10416. The submission submitted and the Commission's non-autonomous text received are available on the Parliament's IT network. I will ask Mr Imre Vejkey, on behalf of the authors, if he wishes to speak now. [[For signal:]] Here you go, Congressman. The time frame is ten minutes; what you do not use will be available at the closing point. Here you go.
u2016-06-06-237	Mr President, Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, As part of the counter-terrorism action plan, we tabled the sixth amendment to Hungary's Fundamental Law. In this, we proposed to introduce the terrorist threat as a special legal order, and we want to ensure that the Hungarian Defence Forces can be used in the fight against terrorism. According to the laws currently in force, the Hungarian Defence Office cannot be deployed in order to guarantee the safety of the Hungarian people. However, almost everywhere, EU states have the opportunity to involve their soldiers by law enforcement. Therefore, the Hungarian government does not ask for more than is available to other EU governments in the event of a terrorist threat. In order to protect Hungary and Hungary, we would like to start implementing the counter-terrorism action plan as soon as possible. Every sober man can see that the threat of terrorism is real in Europe, as we have news of more and more terrorist threats, captured terrorists, unfortunately everyday. The Fidesz-KDNP parliamentary faction, together with the government, immediately after the terrorist attacks on death in Brussels, decided to prepare an anti-terrorism action plan. Terrorist attacks have made it clear to us that there is a close link between terrorism and immigration. In countries that have not protected their citizens, the safety of everyday life has ceased. Our goal is to increase our country's ability to defend itself and to act against terrorists. Please support the Sixth Amendment to the Fundamental Law. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-06-06-238	Thank you very much, Mr President; you will have 7 minutes and 44 seconds to say the closing word. I'm asking if anyone on the government's side wants to speak. [[For signal:]] He doesn't want to. I would like to inform the Honourable Parliament that the designated Justice Committee has not issued a rapporteur. It is now time for the speeches by its representatives. I ask my fellow Members if they wish to speak in the debate. There is no two-minute speech in the debate, and the debate is on a time-frame. [[There's no candidate.]] I don't see any contact. The debate is closed. I will ask Imre Vejkey, as rapporteur, if he wishes to speak, to conclude the debate. [[For signal:]] Yeah. Here you go.
u2016-06-06-239	Mr President, Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to speak very briefly. It would be extremely irresponsible for the opposition in Hungary to give up the military's ability to engage in terrorist threats. The constitution of the new special legal order requires a two-thirds majority in Parliament, and opposition support is also needed. We hope that the opposition will ultimately decide responsibly and support the constitutional amendment in the final vote on Tuesday. If this does not happen, and the opposition says no, then the opposition must take responsibility for any harm and we cannot use all the means to protect Hungary and the Hungarian people from terrorists. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-06-06-240	Thank you very much, Congressman. I would like to inform the House that the decisions will take place on tomorrow's sitting. The Commission's report on the proposed amendment of individual laws to the terrorist threat situation follows a debate. By colleagues from Lajos Kósa, Gergely Gulyás, Imre Vas fideszes, and Péter Harrach, István Simicskó, Imre Vejkey and György Rubovszky KDNP T/10417. The submission submitted and the Commission's non-autonomous text received are available on the Parliament's IT network. I would like to ask Mr Imre Vejkey if he wishes to take the floor on behalf of the authors. [[For signal:]] Yeah.
u2016-06-06-241	Mr President, Thank you, I don't wish, and I'd like to react at the end. [[18.10]]
u2016-06-06-242	Thank you very much. Accordingly, Mr President, there is a deadline of 10 minutes for closing. I'm asking you, on behalf of the government, if anyone would like to speak. [[Tamás Vargha reporting.]] Yeah. Mr. Secretary of State has the floor. Here you go.
u2016-06-06-243	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, I just want to give you one very brief thought. The previous and this bill are, of course, linked to each other, as they are also linked to the bill submitted by the Ministry of Interior. In peacetime, it serves to strengthen prevention and prevention, and these two legislative proposals aim to give us the opportunity, as my fellow Member Imre Vejkey said, to apply the defence. But, of course, these two legislative proposals are a little more than that, because in the event of a terrorist threat to the country and to the security of the Hungarian people, there is a need to take other measures that we must empower the responsible government at all times. These two legislative proposals together ensure and allow the government to guarantee the security of Hungary with the help of the Hungarian Defence Forces in this case. I therefore call on my fellow Members to vote and support the bill without taking into account their membership of the parliamentary group. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2016-06-06-244	Thank you very much for Tamás Vargha's speech. Dear Parliament, I now give the floor to Congressman Miklós Simon, rapporteur for the designated Defence and Police Committee, within a six-minute timeframe. Here you go, Congressman.
u2016-06-06-245	Thank you. Dear House, Dear Parliament, The National Assembly's Defence and Police Committee is the 32nd House Rule. On 18 May 2016, T/10417 on the amendment of certain laws to the terrorist threat situation took place as a designated committee pursuant to Article 1 (1) of the Act. Detailed discussion of bill No. 1. The committee, examining the bill, concluded that it was in compliance with the Rules of the House 44. The requirements set out in paragraph 1 of this Article shall apply. The committee during the detailed discussion of the Rules of the House 45. § 1 () discussed the amendments contained in the annex to the report, examining whether they comply with Article 42 of the Rules of Procedure. the requirements laid down in Section 2 of this Annex. None of the amendments submitted were supported by the Committee. The National Defence and Police Committee closed the detailed discussion of the bill on 18 May 2016. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2016-06-06-246	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, It is now up to the Members to speak within the time-frame on the agenda. There is no possibility of a two-minute speech during the debate. I ask my fellow Members if anyone wishes to make use of the opportunity to speak. [[No one's reporting.]] I don't see any contact. The debate is closed. I will ask Mr Imre Vejkey, as rapporteur, if he wishes to close. [[Dr. Imre Vejkey says yes.]] Yeah. Here you go, Congressman. Your time frame is ten minutes.
u2016-06-06-247	Mr President, Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Given that there is no debate on this issue, I do not wish to repeat what Parliamentary Secretary Tamás Vargha has already said. In my view, it is extremely important that this bill be adopted by the House together with the sixth amendment of the basic law. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2016-06-06-248	Thank you very much, Congressman. I would like to inform my fellow Members that the decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting. We now have the Commission's reports on the amendment of certain laws relating to counter-terrorism and the discussion of the summarised amendment proposal. The government referral is T/10307. The Commission's non-autonomous texts are available on the Parliament's IT network. First, the position of the Legislative Committee will be presented in the debate. I give the floor to Congressman Vas Imre, rapporteur of the committee. Here you go, Congressman. The time frame is 15 minutes.
u2016-06-06-249	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, I hereby inform the Parliament that the Legislative Committee discussed on 3 June 2016 the T/10307 on the amendment of certain laws relating to counter-terrorism. and the committee submitted a proposal for amendment and a summary report with 29 votes in favour, i.e. unanimously. It is important to note that, prior to the submission of the bill, the Ministry of the Interior held a five-party consultation on the importance of the case, on which, exceptionally, all parliamentary groups were represented. This kind of constructivity characterized the legislative process as a whole. One of the biggest problems was the legal treatment of apps that can be downloaded on mobile phones, which make the communication of the parties unknowable as a result of internet technology services. Under the proposed amendment adopted, services which hinder the enforcement of national security and law enforcement interests, which are not subject to legal control, will also be subject to verification and the transmission of metadata. The amendment tabled by the MSZP Members also selects solutions acceptable to them from a constitutional point of view in the event of a terrorist act that has occurred or is expected to occur. The amending proposal therefore sets out the rules for the constitutional application of existing police instruments. The law on police law opened by the bill of 7/E. It is appropriate to add the provision that the police's counter-terrorism body is involved in the implementation of the measures required to combat the direct consequences of terrorist offences as laid down in this Act. It is also appropriate to define the police measures by which the police are able to act effectively to prevent terrorist acts and to deal with the consequences of the terrorist acts already committed. Therefore, the amending proposal sets out the rules for a priority security measure in the Police Act as a new police measure. The powers specified under the key security measure shall provide the police with all means necessary to enable them to take all necessary security measures without delay to prevent them if they have information directly and verifiable about the preparation of a terrorist attack. The inclusion of the key security measure in the police law makes it clear that the police are entitled and obliged to take the necessary measures, regardless of which facilities are in operation or what events there are, in order to prevent a direct threat to locations that may be considered as threatened on the basis of credible information. The amendment of the LMP Members considers the transfer of information by means of more open IT tools in the National Security Services Act acceptable if they are accompanied by logging rules, which allow the National Security Committee and the Data Protection Authority to carry out effective follow-up checks, in addition to fundamental legal guarantees. In this context, it was proposed to require subsequent information to be provided to the data subject in a context where this would not harm the interests of national security, for example as the latter investigations clarify the subject. The opposition proposal is included in the summarised amendment proposal. In addition, the TAB's own motion requires that national security services, in the light of their specific data management systems, be provided with specific data transmission solutions to support Tibet's activities on counter-terrorism, organised crime and related national security issues while effectively performing their tasks. [[18.20]] The summarised amendment therefore includes amendments from both the National Security and Defence and Police Committees, including the opposition proposals cited, as well as the clarification provisions of the Legislative Committee that are acceptable to all factions. I therefore ask you to stick to the statements made at the Legislative Committee meeting and to support the bill, thereby increasing the security of Hungary. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-06-06-250	Thank you very much, Congressman. I ask Mr Károly Kontra, Secretary of State, if he wishes to speak on behalf of the rapporteur. You have ten minutes, which you won't use, use in the closing. [[Károly Kontrat: Is there another speaker, Mr President? Are there any other speakers now?]] Mr. Secretary. In such cases, it is possible to speak to the representative of the rapporteur. That's not the closing point. If you do not use your time frame, you have 10 minutes to close. [[Károly Kontra: Thank you, later.]] Thank you. Then I shall open the debate; the Members' speeches will follow. Or before that: the rapporteur of the National Security Committee is not present, so he does not speak; but the rapporteur of the Defence and Police Committee has a six-minute timeframe. Thank you very much. Here you go, Congressman Vas Imre.
u2016-06-06-251	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Dear Parliament, The Defence and Police Committee is under Rule 32 of the Rules of the House. T/10307 on the amendment of certain laws relating to counter-terrorism was held on 4 May 2016 as a committee related to the debate pursuant to paragraph 2 of Section 2 of the Act on Counter-Terrorism. detailed debates on the bill submitted. The committee examined the bill and concluded that it was in compliance with Rule 44 of the Rules of Procedure. the requirements laid down in Section 2 of this Annex. The committee during the detailed discussion of the Rules of the House 45. § 1 () discussed the amendments contained in the annex to the report, examining whether they comply with Article 42 of the Rules of Procedure. the requirements laid down in Section 2 of this Annex. The Committee adopted a proposal for a Commission amendment closing a detailed debate on several of the amendments tabled, including its own intention to amend, including the content of several amendments. The Committee adopted the Commission's amendment by 7 votes in favour with 1 abstention. The Defense and Police Committee closed the detailed debate on the bill on 4 May. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-06-06-252	Thank you very much, Congressman. During the debate, two-minute speeches are not possible. The debate takes place in a time frame. The time frame will be displayed on the billboard. [[The time frame is displayed on the display.]] Thank you very much. I ask my fellow Members if anyone wishes to speak. [[No one's reporting.]] I don't see any contact. The debate is closed. Now, I'm going to ask the Secretary of State if he'd like to make a closing statement. [[For signal:]] Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2016-06-06-253	Mr President, thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Due to recent terrorist acts in Paris and Brussels, it is clear that terrorism is also linked to immigration. Previously, through the green border, people who could be potential perpetrators of similar terrorist acts or participate in such acts of terrorism could enter the territory of Hungary uncontrolled by the mass wave of immigration. The Hungarian government recognised these dangers and made the right choice when it said that no one could enter Hungary without checking. The lessons learned from the last events in Brussels are clear to us that security measures need to be stepped up. Accordingly, the government has taken a decision to create an anti-terrorism package. The bill before you concerns a number of two-thirds laws. In view of the fact that the security of our country is our common national interest, we have held three five-party consultations in the Ministry of the Interior in order to be able to submit a proposal to the Honourable Parliament, which the opposition also considers to be eligible. To this end, a number of opposition amendments were incorporated into the submitted bill. I would therefore like to thank the parliamentary parties, the governing parties and the opposition parties for their constructive behaviour, which has resulted in a bill that is supported by all groups. Dear Parliament, The package of laws in front of you strengthens the defence capacity of the state, the law enforcement and counter-terrorism agencies, and serves the safety of the country and the Hungarian people. The Hungarian government is asking for nothing more or less than the instruments in the hands of other EU governments. The government is committed to taking all the necessary steps to ensure freedom, security and order. Dear Parliament, I would ask the Honourable Parliament to support the bill tabled, and in the vote tomorrow, I would ask my fellow Members to press the yes button and to support the proposal, because this will serve the safety of Hungary, the Hungarian people. Thank you for your attention, thank you for your support. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-06-06-254	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that the decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting. Ladies and gentlemen, I would also like to inform you that the TAB is still in session and that Róbert Répássy is the rapporteur on the next item. [[Dr. Vas Imre: He'll be right back.]] Congressman, I have information, too. [[Dr. Vas Imre: Sorry, sorry. Dr. Répássy Robert enters the room.]] Mr. Répássy is here. I would have asked the Honourable Parliament, if the Member had not interrupted, to take a deep breath and wait for his arrival in the Chamber until Mr Répássy arrived and exhaled. Dear Parliament, We'll get back to work. It follows that CXXX of 2000 establishing the nullity of convictions in connection with the 1956 Revolution and the War of Independence. a consolidated debate on the proposal to amend law to make the procedure for non-compliance more effective. The presentation submitted by our better colleagues Lajos Kósa and Répássy Róbert fideszes, Péter Harrach KDNP, József Tóbias MSZP, András Schiffer LMP and Gábor Vona T/1105. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. I would like to inform you that, according to the derogation from the adopted Rules of Procedure, the opening speech and the closing clause will have a total of 20 minutes, 5 minutes for the government representative's statement, 6 minutes for the legislative committee's speech, 3 minutes for the presentation of the minority opinion, 10 minutes for the group's speeches, and 3 minutes for the opposition of the independent Members. I now give the floor to Mr Répássy, the rapporteur on the agenda, as I have already said, in a 20-minute time frame with the closing word. Here you go, Congressman.
u2016-06-06-255	Thank you, Mr President, for the floor. And thank you for your patience, fellow Members. The legislative committee of the Parliament has just discussed the proposal that we would like to present to you. The leaders of all five political groups jointly submitted the bill, which is the 2000 CXXX. It seeks to amend the law. The 2000 CXXX. law is also called an act of nullity. For the record, it's not the only nullity law in our legal order. However, this law is about establishing the nullity of convictions in connection with the repression of the 1956 Revolution and the fight for freedom. [[18.30]] The 2000 CXXX. By law, by the power of the law, the judgments created in the retaliation of the 1956 Revolution and the War of Independence were clearly implemented as conceptual lawsuits. By the power of the law, these procedures are null and void, and the penalties and procedures imposed for the facts of the law are null and void. However, the certificate of nullity is made on request, and so far, according to the current rules in force, it can be applied to the Court of First Instance, i.e. the court which delivered the judgments which were subsequently annulled after 1956. The certificate is therefore issued on the basis of an application. However, this is a rather cumbersome and lengthy procedure, since it does not lack redress either. So, while a law has already annulled these lawsuits and these convictions, the procedure for issuing the certificate itself is a multi-level procedure. Therefore, the amendment tabled by the faction leaders - and I say that at a symbolic time, submitted to a symbolic law - would like to eliminate this pointless multi-level procedure, make it one-degree, and immediately refer this bill before us to the authority of the Curia for proof of nullity, since the Curia would say the final word, it would decide on these matters at the last instance. Now these cases can go straight to the Curia. In addition, if there is such an ongoing procedure, it would be before the Curia, and the Curia would be able to make that decision. This would, of course, speed up the process in which the rule of law has already been set aside for decades, since these criminal convictions need to be corrected. This law also solves the problem of broadening the scope of the initiative, so it does not simply make the procedure one-degree, but it will be possible to initiate a wider process of proof of nullity in the future. So far, only after the death of the prisoner has relatives been able to ask for such a certificate, and now the relatives can initiate it even in the life of the prisoner, in addition to the fact that, of course, the prisoner himself or his advocate, or the prosecutor, can initiate the issue of this certificate. I believe that the bill, in addition to the fact that it is a technical amendment, nevertheless - at least from the point of view of the legislation - will end this nullity procedure, since there is no longer any obstacle to issuing certificates more widely. So far, unfortunately, statistics have shown that much more people have been affected by nullification, so much more people have been convicted in subsequent nullification proceedings than have been the ones who applied for an annulment certificate. It is therefore appropriate to open the door as widely as possible to make it very simple to say that there should also be paper for the convicts or for the relatives of the convicts that they were illegally convicted of a retribution procedure in 1956. In this way, the National Assembly will give a heads-up to the victims who have been condemned by the justice system of the Communist dictatorship after 1956 in retaliatory proceedings, since we can now say, after many decades, that these were conceptual procedures, these prisoners were not sinners, but were victims of the Communist regime. That is why I ask this House to adopt the bill. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2016-06-06-256	Thank you very much, Congressman. I'll inform you that you'll have a time frame of 14 minutes and 4 seconds before closing. I would like to ask the Secretary of State Mariann Water East if she wishes to speak on behalf of the government. Wish?
u2016-06-06-257	[[No sound.]] Thank you very much, I don't wish, I just want...
u2016-06-06-258	He doesn't want to. Thank you very much, Madam Secretary. The position of the Legislative Committee and the presentation of a minority opinion will now be used within 6 minutes - 3-3 minutes. I give the floor to Congressman Vas Imre, rapporteur of the committee. Here you go.
u2016-06-06-259	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. The Legislative Committee discussed T/1105 in accordance with the derogation from the adopted House Rule. Bill No. 1. No amendment has been tabled. The committee adopted its report by unanimity. Thank you for listening. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2016-06-06-260	Thank you very much, Congressman. The Member appointed to deliver the minority opinion is not present, so the minority opinion is not given. The speeches will now take place in accordance with the time-frames that I have already presented. I give the floor first from the KDNP Group to Mr Imre Vejkey. Here you go, Congressman.
u2016-06-06-261	Mr President, Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, From the Hungarian people on 23 October 1956, the instinct of life broke out with ancient force, with a force in which the whole world trembled, and a multitude of nations watched with silent admiration the courage of the Hungarians: a small country attacked the world's largest army to defend its country. Ladies and Gentlemen, The Hungarian Revolution broke out from one hour to the next. The oppressors believed that anything could be done to the nation; they believed that the past of a nation could be completely abolished; they believed that the nation was forced to give up freedom, self-determination, culture, boundaries, history and faith; they believed that the obscure ideology of the oppressors could replace lost freedom and thousands of years of tradition. Ladies and Gentlemen, Our freedom fighters of 56 fought against the gunfire of Soviet tanks for freedom and died. Those who did not die in the midst of the enemy's bullets were sentenced to death, imprisoned, destroyed, or driven away. Ladies and Gentlemen, Following the Soviet occupation on 4 November 1956, the collaborating government led by János Kádár, with the cooperation of the Soviet invaders, began to restore the order envisaged by the Communists in Hungary. Thus, freedom fighters or sympathetics were sentenced to death, imprisonment, and destruction in conceptual lawsuits. The conceptual lawsuits between 1956 and 63 could not be conducted on the basis of the substantive and procedural rules in force at that time, so the Presidential Council of the People's Republic imposed legislation on the powers of the Parliament and established the legislative decrees necessary for the conceptual lawsuits. On the basis of the above, it can be concluded that neither justice nor the provision of justice can be said; these were, in fact, not judgments, but political murders. On the other hand, it can be concluded that since the judicial proceedings were not judgments, but political judgments, the judgments are therefore null and void by virtue of the power of the law. Ladies and Gentlemen, At the time of the first Orbán government, the Parliament annulled the judgments in the concept lawsuits, which the right holders had to apply to the court of first instance, which had previously acted in their case. And this bill could make the procedure uniform, that is to say, directly before the Curia to establish the nullity of the judgments of the Communist terror in connection with the repression of the 1956 Revolution and the war of independence, and the possibility of initiating the procedure could be broadened to the benefit of the relatives. Dear House, Ladies and Gentlemen, Please support the bill, the KDNP parliamentary faction supports it. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]] [[18.40]]
u2016-06-06-262	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I ask who wishes to speak in the debate. [[There's no candidate.]] I don't see any contact. The consolidated debate is closed. I will ask our fellow Member, Róbert Répássy, if he wishes to respond to what has been said. The remaining time frame is 14 minutes 4 seconds. Here you go, Congressman.
u2016-06-06-263	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I would just like to thank the leaders of the political groups very briefly for their initiative, because the bill is, in a rare way, a five-party bill, which, as I said, can, at a symbolic time, give a legislative aid to those to whom the rule of law can still be satisfied after they have been wrongly convicted. I would also like to thank the Christian Democratic People's Party for the support presented here, and I would ask all my fellow Members to support the bill. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2016-06-06-264	Thank you very much, Congressman. I would like to inform this House that the decision will take place on tomorrow's sitting. Dear Parliament, Following are the individual tax laws and other related laws, as well as the 2010 National Tax and Customs Office CXXII. The Commission's reports on the amendment of the Act and the debate on the draft amendment. The government referral is 10/10537. The Parliament is available on the IT network, together with the Commission's non-autonomous motions received. Dear Parliament, The debate will be the first to present the position of the Legislative Committee within a 15-minute time frame. I give the floor to Roland Mengyi, rapporteur of the committee. Here you go, Congressman.
u2016-06-06-265	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, On 2 and 3 June 2016, the Legislative Committee also discussed certain tax laws and other related laws, as well as the 2010 CXXII of the National Tax and Customs Office. T/10537. Bill No. 1. The Committee shall be governed by the Rules of Procedure 46. It submitted a proposal for amendment and a summary report with 24 votes in favour, 2 votes against and 2 abstentions. The summarised amendment contains the amendments made by the Economic Committee and the Legislative Committee. My fellow Members were most aware of the change in the cafeteria system. Both days, questions were raised in the context of this issue, on which I would like to reiterate that, as has been said there, the decision of the European Union forced the government to rewrite the provisions of personal income tax on benefits other than wages, in particular regarding the Erzsébet programme, the Elizabeth card and the SZÉP card. In view of the decision, Hungary has a duty to establish a new regulation in the cafeteria system. The bill submitted contains the following on this issue. Two forms of cafeteria application may be provided, partly in the form of cash and partly in the form of a SZÉP card. The cash cafeteria can be provided in both the private and the public sector up to HUF 100,000. The SZÉP card is differentiated depending on whether we are talking about the private sector or the public sector: it has been maximized in the public sector at HUF 100,000 and in the private sector at HUF 350 thousand. Cash provided as a cafeteria, of course, has a tax burden of 34.5 per cent, so this 100 thousand forints bears the public costs as an extra-wage allowance. Cash in addition is, of course, already taxed as a wage, but the citizen is taxed as an extra-wage allowance up to HUF 100,000. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, I think the change is moving in a positive direction. By creating a new tax law, the government intends to further simplify our tax system, the relationship between the tax administration and the taxpayer in Hungary. Please support the proposal. Thank you for listening. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2016-06-06-266	Thank you very much, Congressman. I would like to ask Mr András Tállai, State Secretary, if you would like to speak now on behalf of the rapporteur. [[For signal:]] No, I'll inform the Secretary of State that if he makes use of it, he will have a ten-minute timeframe. Dear Parliament, No rapporteur was drawn up by the designated Economic Committee. The speeches will now take place in the time frame on the agenda, which will soon appear on the billboard. There is no possibility of a two-minute comment during the debate. I will ask my fellow Members if anyone wishes to speak. [[For signal:]] Yes, I am speaking to Mr Sándor Burány of the MSZP Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2016-06-06-267	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, As far as the cafeteria proposal is concerned, cafeteria has always been a necessary solution. A non-wage benefit that has given workers and workers better opportunities in the absence of better. Let us conclude immediately that the European Union did not object to the cafeteria system itself, but first of all criticized the method of implementation introduced by the Fidesz government, namely that it created a monopoly position, excluding various companies from the possibility of using it. This was therefore the fundamental administrative reason for the change. In this sense, therefore, the comments raised are justified, but let us be clear that Brussels was in fact concerned not with the cafeteria itself, but with the monopoly situation created in the current system of cafeteria. Our position is that it would be much more appropriate to introduce and apply a multi-key tax system, which mainly reduces the tax burden in lower income bands, since after 2010, the governments of Fidesz imposed a tax burden on the minimum wage in the first place, but in fact on all low incomes a higher tax burden than before, although they called it a tax reduction, but in fact the single-key tax only provided a substantial tax reduction for those with the highest income. In the year of its introduction, 60 percent of society, 60 percent of workers, had a tax increase, as was precisely stated in the statements. We therefore continue to suggest that rather than absolving the cafeteria system, we should create the possibility for workers to earn more in net terms by reducing their taxes, so that they have more money to buy, since the personal freedom to decide what they are spending their own salary on will only limit their opportunities. In the cafeteria system, it is possible to use it in a defined circle, while if net wages were to increase, everyone would be free to make provision for all workers to use extra money. What would otherwise be the whole of the summarised amendment proposal would have been possible through the tax system to combat workers' poverty on the one hand and support economic growth on the other. However, the majority of the government did not take advantage of this opportunity. The opposition motions for this purpose have been voted out. While it would be necessary to change poverty after 2010 by reducing taxes, that is what I was referring to when introducing a multi-key tax system in the cafeteria system, while the economic data show that the economy has come down in the first quarter of this year and that economic growth based solely on EU support and car manufacturers presents serious risks. After all, the fact that EU funds are now being drawn at an unstrengthened, forced pace, and the fact that Audi has held back its production has already basically destroyed the Hungarian economy according to the first quarter data. Of course, we can hope that this situation will change in the coming months, but beyond hope it would be worth taking steps in this direction. The current tax system, as I have just mentioned, has hit low-income people in recent years, so it would be much more worthwhile to pursue an income policy through the tax system to increase consumers' spending money. This is not possible in our view in the current system, so we are still facing a tax policy that severely restricts domestic demand. Although the original bill, through VAT reductions, has somewhat eased this, it has not changed its fundamental nature. [[18.50]] Therefore, in view of the summary package of amendments, in view of the proposals adopted, we are still disappointed. Thank you very much for your patience.
u2016-06-06-268	Thank you very much, Congressman. From the LMP Group, Mrs Schmuck Erzsébet is next. Here you go, Congresswoman.
u2016-06-06-269	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, We believe that in the final debate of a bill, it is worth highlighting points, details that show the government's public bearing philosophy. I would now like to highlight two items. One is the contribution to the development of tourism and the other is the system of cafeteria. With regard to the contribution to tourism development, I think it is important to say that it has been announced in a rather large voice that the VAT on catering will be reduced to 5% from 1 January 2018. When almost everyone believed that, they pushed an 103rd amendment point into the summary amendment, in case they didn't notice, so they didn't have to publicly justify what the government gives with one hand and take it with the other. We believe that there is a reason for secrecy, because this is a new special tax, and this indicates that the operation of the government and tax policy have already become a total prey for the insatiable spoiling groups. Although the structure of governance and the tax system should not be a personal issue, it cannot be avoided to say how the competition of individual oligarch groups within the government distorts the use of public funds. They've got a 4-percent increase in their pockets. We also believe that there is a chance that the measure is contrary to EU law, since, however packaged, it practically introduces a third preferential VAT rate, the 9%. We also think that this is another tax-technical tax, with all its disadvantages. The obligation to declare increases the administrative burden, a new form, a new declaration and a deadline, complicates the filing of invoices and receipts, another administrative burden on the tax office, which has to record more boxes, not for HUF 4-5 billion. Everyone who knows a little bit about taxation knows that with such small taxes, the cost of collecting can be even more than the revenue itself. In addition, every word of justification is false. It is said that, in order to be able to finance national tourism development objectives and to ensure the coherence of the legal system, and to ensure the predictability of the rules on tourism, the new public space will be introduced, taking into account the fundamental principles of legal certainty and proportionate public burden-sharing. The fundingability of national tourism development objectives has not been put at risk. The government spends hundreds of billions a year on things it expects tourism to develop, from Hungaroring Zrt. to EU funds, to tourism development, to hotel constructions now extended by 10 billion; I don't even talk about ten billion of the Museum Park project. In short, there is plenty of money for tourism development, it could easily be regrouped if you really wanted it, which is why there is no need for this contribution to tourism development. The other item is cafeteria. We see that there would have been time to work this out properly. We also see that there has been no proper consultation with social partners in the transformation of cafeteria. What you have shown us is in the interest of tourism again, because in one case the SZÉP card costs HUF 350,000 and HUF 100,000 for the so-called forintation, and in the case of the public sector, HUF 100,000 for the SZÉP card and HUF 100,000 for the money they want to pay in cash. But we also see that this transformation weakens self - care, since it was possible to pay for a voluntary pension fund, a health fund. You simply delete this, but at the same time, in another law, you require the obligation of parenting. The third one, which cannot be ignored: next year will be an election year, it seems that you want to identify this 100 thousand HUF cash payment as a wage increase. It's not a raise. A real wage increase would be needed, and LMP constantly insists that the multi-key personal income tax system should be restored, otherwise there will be no real wage increase. For us, this amendment is unacceptable.
u2016-06-06-270	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Just to clarify: the election will not be expected next year, but one more time, but there is no problem, perhaps the congresswoman knows something that we have not yet heard, so I am speaking to Mr István Józsa of the MSZP group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2016-06-06-271	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, This series of proposals on tax laws is interesting, and the next on excise duty, in particular, in the context of the fact that you are the government of tax reductions all the time. They do have emblematic tax reductions that are highlighted, let's say, in the area of personal income tax, and then they don't talk about a 2-percent increase in general sales tax. When you look at tax revenues, sales tax revenues are very heavy. It also has the effect that my colleague Sándor Burány referred to, and the statistics of the last five to six years show that you have benefited people who do not spend these extra incomes with personal income tax benefits. This was clear from the stockpiling data, and the structure of the government debt clearly showed how the HUF ratio could increase, how the retail bond purchase could increase, but there is a very sad other side to this, which is expressed by the fact that 40 percent of the Hungarian population is forced to live below the minimum living. After all, you took money from those who have problems at the end of the month by eliminating the tax credit. So if they left more money there, it would immediately appear in consumption data and, on average, this is what they bring from the KSH, how well domestic consumption has been showing in recent times. Also, if you look at its structure, it is due to the consumption growth of the 20 percent who earn the most over average income, so you have not done much towards social justice. It is clear from this amendment that some of the cafeteria is cashed by you. This also shows that people need money, they need money, and this should be achieved by increasing low incomes and further tax reductions there. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that they do not stop at their own propaganda, which is basically based on average data, but look at how the majority of Hungarian society really lives, and if they are thinking about tax reductions or raising people, they should come up with much more effective solutions affecting the majority of the population. If we look at the macroeconomic dimension, this will have a direct beneficial effect on the recovery of domestic consumption, including economic, GDP growth. Thank you, Mr. President. [[19.00]]
u2016-06-06-272	Thank you very much, Congressman. From the Fidesz Group, it is up to Congressman Roland Mengyi. Here you go, Congressman.
u2016-06-06-273	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, The 2017 tax law fits perfectly into the line that we have seen in tax measures in recent years, as it has helped to build a growth-enhancing tax system that strongly supports families, businesses, the domestic economy, employment, and not only supports them, but also reduces the tax burden on small and medium-sized enterprises, encouraging their development and investment. Of course, at the same time, the government has taken significant steps to combat the black economy, which has improved the efficiency of tax collection. This has, of course, allowed tax reductions and work to continue in the coming years. [[President Tamás Sneider, Vice-President of the National Assembly.]] As in the past, the primary objective of the 2017 Tax Act is to reduce taxes and administration, which, with all its measures, will ensure that ten billion people can stay on the Hungarian people's table, ten billion people can stay with families. There's been a misunderstanding. I would like to say to my fellow Members that with the single-key tax system, the complex tax system, the family tax system, we have left more than HUF 3500 billion in Hungarian families over the past period, which is easy to calculate, so it is at least unjustified to judge as ineffective. At the same time, tax burdens are used to attack our tax laws; I would just like to say to my fellow MSZP Members that during the period of governance of the MSZP, the total tax burden was over 41 per cent, which the Fidesz government managed to reduce to 38 per cent, which is now stabilizing below 39 per cent, but that is because the economy is whitening and we can thank our tax system for much more visible and serious revenues. As my fellow Member of the LMP said, if we are talking about a tax law, it is worth highlighting some of the elements, I would also like to do some of them: reducing the VAT on the Internet from 27 percent to 18 percent, reducing the overall turnover tax on poultrymeat, eggs, milk to 5 percent, personal income tax on families with two children, which, by the way, is maintained by this tax law from 16 to 15 percent, the amount remaining in the family budget is still increasing, with more than HUF 15 billion for more than 350 thousand families, which means that it will remain 80 to 85 thousand forints for a family with four children. The new tax package will be reduced by administration, including automatic payment of no extra charge, and more than half a million individuals will be able to make use of it. It also reduces the administrative burden for family members: the tax advance statement for individuals who enforce family benefits does not need to be presented to the employer of the other entitled person and signed with him, which is a great and great relief for people and families. Labour mobility is also supported by the new tax law, the related measures, as the cost of work is also increased from 9 to 15 HUF. The concept of working accommodation is broadened and further tax incentives are included in the law. In short, I could tell you a long time ago: yes, the 2017 tax law, as has been the case so far, is a tax package for growth and employment in the interests of businesses and Hungarian people. Please support me. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-06-06-274	Welcome, fellow Members. There is no two-minute opportunity to comment at this debate stage, so perhaps if Mr Józsa presses a normal button - yes - then I will give the floor to the Member.
u2016-06-06-275	Thank you very much. For the remaining 34 seconds, I would say that Mr Mengyi did not accept what I said, that he would consider the extent to which he did not comply with the growth and the extent to which the package you presented did not correspond to the tax reduction. It favours the best earners, and where money should be left, it doesn't leave enough money, so I'm still telling them to think about how to increase the money for low-income people. Thank you.
u2016-06-06-276	I am asking my fellow Members if anyone would like to comment on the debate. [[No one's reporting.]] I don't see a candidate. So the general debate is closed and I give the floor to Mr András Tállai, State Secretary.
u2016-06-06-277	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, I believe that I have few questions to answer, because as a member of the Government, Mr Mengyi Roland has responded appropriately to opposition proposals, especially on the issues raised by the Hungarian Socialist Party, both in terms of cafeteria and on other issues. Perhaps we should clarify one question that came from the LMP, this is a certain contribution to the development of tourism. Let us be clear, however, that this will only enter into force on 1 January 2018, when the VAT on catering will fall from 18 percent to 5 percent. Indeed, 4 percent will have to be paid back to those who perform this service, but this resource will also be of benefit to them, as it will become a targeted appropriation, a so-called strapped money, and it will promote the hospitality sector and development of tourism, obviously based on a separate decision. With regard to cafeteria, I would like to emphasise once again that the European Union did cancel the Erzsébet voucher, and the government did not intend to stop it; it is the cruel decision of the European Union that takes it away from the Hungarian people. What I do not understand is what is the problem with the fact that in the cafeteria system a HUF 100,000 annual allowance will take place, as it is difficult to imagine better, because the employees will spend it on what they want. So when the MSZP says that we need to increase the income that consumers can spend, then this system transformation, the cafeteria system conversion, is exactly what it serves, I could also say that the MSZP's expectations are fully adapted. I would also like to emphasise that, overall, the main message and content of the tax package is tax and administration reduction, helping entrepreneurs, employers and workers, both by amending financial tax laws and by supporting labour mobility. We are not talking about it, but the whitening of the economy is a very important element of the tax package. Let us not forget, however, that the government has been able to deliver significant results in this area over the past six years and that, by gathering experience, we will further tighten up the possibilities and tools of the National Tax and Customs Office on how to collect taxes that certain taxpayers do not want to pay, thus reducing the budget - I am thinking of the measures taken to tighten up the EKÁER system or to improve the means in the field of implementation. Overall, the tax package serves the government's political objectives in that it will be easier for both employees and employers, families and entrepreneurs after the adoption of tax laws, as this will affect the small and medium-sized business sector, and will also help the large business sector, especially in the field of research and development, as a whole, a step forward if the amendments to the tax law come into force. That's why I'm asking Parliament to pass the tax bill tomorrow. Thank you. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-06-06-278	Ladies and gentlemen, The decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting. [[19.10]] The Commission's reports on the proposal for excise duty and the summary amendment are now under discussion. The government referral is T/10539. The Commission's non-autonomous texts are available on the parliamentary IT network. First, the position of the Legislative Committee will be presented in the debate. I give the floor to Roland Mengyi, rapporteur of the committee.
u2016-06-06-279	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, At the meeting of the Legislative Committee on 2 June 2016, the members discussed the T/10539 on excise duty. Bill No. 1. The committee adopted and submitted the summary amendment proposal and the summary report to the Parliament by 22 votes in favour, 7 against and 3 abstentions. The summarised amendment includes the 111-exact amendments of the Economic Committee and the proposals of the Legislative Committee, which were the subject of the debate. I would like to highlight two essential provisions of the amendment. The registration for the import, storage and sale of dried fermented tobacco should also be extended for the production of the tobacco plant. Secondly, an integral part of the debate was the fixing of the $50 per barrel fixed in the motion in connection with the linking of fuel rates to oil prices on the world market. As State Secretary of the Legislative Committee confirmed, the proposal includes a HUF 5 per litre increase for petrol at the price of $50 per barrel and an increase of HUF 10 per litre for diesel. The aim of the initiative is to link the level of excise duty to the world market price, which is not an unprecedented regulation in Hungary, and we have had similar rules before. The government's idea is that $50 is the limit under which it is worth considering to reduce fuel prices, so it is a moving regulation. If the price of oil falls below $50 a barrel again, then, of course, the price of fuel will decrease, too. There is also a change in the method of calculation as proposed. A rolling regulation and regulation that is much closer to the market will be implemented, to which I would like to add that the provision also has the support of the profession, the Mineral Oil Association, in the amending proposal. Ladies and gentlemen, Please support the proposal. Thank you for your attention. [[It's a rare round of applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-06-06-280	I'll ask the author if he'd like to comment now. [[For signal:]] It says no. No rapporteur was drawn up by the designated Economic Committee. The speeches will now be held by the Members, and I will give the floor to Mr István Józsa.
u2016-06-06-281	Thank you. Dear House, I'd like to make it clear that you're the subject of a tax increase again, before you guys get carried away, that you're the government of the tax reduction. In their post-2010 activities, 32 new special taxes have been added, and here they are introducing a new proposal to increase the excise duty on fuels. At present, as the world market price is currently below $50 per barrel, the road opens before a tax increase of HUF 5 for petrol and HUF 10 for gas oil. So if domestic consumers wish to be happy that the oil price on the world market is low, this pleasure will now be reduced a little by the government. Similarly, on another point, but the government will increase excise duty on tobacco products by 29 percent by the end of 2017, so it is also a tax increase. I do not dispute the reason for this, nor its purpose, to reduce the consumption of tobacco products, but what could be seen in Hungary after the Traffic Act shows that with these steps you can only reduce legal traffic. According to some estimates, illegal tobacco trade in certain areas of Hungary will reach 50 percent, at least as far as final consumers are concerned, so further thoughts should be put in place here if we really want to achieve the health impact. It's basically just a tax increase at the moment. Of course, it is differentiated that the rates applicable from 1 January, 1 April, 1 July and 1 October will be fixed taking into account the listing price for Brent petroleum, so, as you said, Mr President, in such a rolling form, but the end is, however, an increase in excise duties on petrol and gas oil. The other parts of the proposal, which concern the regulation of excise duty, so to simplify it, make it clearer and more transparent, are not the subject of a debate on our part. This is necessary, this is a good step forward, as I have mentioned as a positive, I say to Mr Secretary of State, that much has been done to make it white. Online cash registers, although it was introduced in scandalous circumstances to whom the sale of cash registers themselves as equipment is a business, are critical because it seems that it was a big deal, a billion-dollar deal for businessmen close to Fidesz, but the end result is, of course, a positive mention of the fact that retail sales have become white. Similarly, the EKAER is a necessary method, consistent with the current level of IT technology, and I say that it is worth further development. Similarly, we propose and see this in the excise legislation, so that the principle of trust applies. So most of those who are in this excise market want to be there tomorrow and be there next year, so it is not the reliable, good farmers who have to be hit on each vesume, but the ones who want to cheat. We believe that this is a minority, although it is slowly becoming a majority in the area of tobacco trade. In view of all this, we cannot support tax increases. We believe that it is important that the price movements on the world market apply to domestic prices, for example, the legally determined gas price already represents a reduction of at least 10 per cent, and this has not yet been achieved, so we suggest that if we are not only going to announce orally that tax reductions are important for you, then we do not put in place a law on tax increases. Thank you for your attention.
u2016-06-06-282	I now give the floor to Congresswoman Erzsébet Schmuck.
u2016-06-06-283	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, After last week's TAB meeting, it became clear that the government wanted to make a hidden tax increase. This is well demonstrated by the fact that in the amendment to excise duty, the two versions are proposed to accept which is based on the higher oil price. The government assumed that oil prices would not fall to $40 in the near future, so it added the $50 price to its bill. I think it is important to reiterate that the LMP supports the taxation of fossil fuels and the reduction of non-renewable resources, but that is not the issue in this situation. The government knows that there are already a lot of taxes that are demanding for people. [[19.20]] Therefore, we still fear that the system in the draft, which determines the rate of tax depending on the oil price, does not actually mean the beginning of a government change of attitude, but that the government wants to gain even more tax revenue so that it does not cause outrage among Hungarian citizens. Let's get this straight. The government's actually planning a hidden tax increase. It is already incomprehensible to people why since the radical decline in the world market price of oil they do not pay proportionately less than gas stations. This amendment only confuses and makes the system more opaque. Furthermore, in our view, the only way to increase the price of fossil fuels is to spend the revenues thus obtained not on stadiums or palaces, and certainly not on economically unsustainable nuclear power plants, but on investments that can actually replace the current transport and transport instruments. The revenue from the excise duty on petrol could, in our opinion, be spent only and exclusively on the development of environmentally sound means of transport. If the government has drawn the price level on its own, with additional revenue for achieving it, think also of those SMEs, agricultural workers and rural people who might be able to compensate for these revenues. The government not only wants to skim the profit from the fall in oil prices, but also to commit that if the price of petrol increases, it will compensate for the negative effects. Therefore, the LMP submitted its proposed amendment not only to pay more at the filling stations in the event of a fall in oil prices. If the oil price increases and the VAT revenue increases, then the rate of excise duty will be reduced to the same extent. The government should not always be mindful of increasing its own incomes, but also of the situation of Hungarian families and Hungarian businesses. The proposal also includes an increase in tobacco prices, but this is not enough to reduce smoking. This would be made possible by the actions and programmes that encourage a healthy life. The additional income from the tax increase should therefore be devoted to these health-preservation programmes and to reducing the damage to smoking. We can support the increase in excise duty on tobacco products in principle, as the rate of those who die as a result of smoking problems is still very high in Hungary. However, consideration should be given to the extent that, with the increase in cigarette prices in poorer families, there is even less food or children because parents prefer to buy more expensive cigarettes. Therefore, on our part, the increase in tobacco tax can only be supported if we see additional measures and funding that can really reduce smoking, we see the strengthening of the institutional system that can provide effective assistance in immediate detachment. In the absence of this, the new increase in excise duty is not a public health programme but merely a tax collection. Furthermore, it is feared that the new price increase will increase the already significant black market for tobacco products. Today, smugglers are happy to sell cheap and low-quality tobacco products, which is not only a significant loss to the budget, but also more harmful to health. The LMP therefore does not support the bill, as it is another claim, but the amendment does not bring about any substantive change. Thank you for your attention.
u2016-06-06-284	I now give the floor to Congressman István Józsa.
u2016-06-06-285	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Let me make one more addition to illustrate the government's overpowering. We consider that the government's intention to determine the quality of fuels that can be marketed by an excise trader and an excise retailer is a security risk. In view of this, it is of concern that, although the excise law in force fixes a reference to the standard for fuels - we believe that this is correct - the present bill only mentions the fuel standard or the need to do so in the explanatory memorandum of the law, it has been left out of the standard text of the law, and indeed it has been included that the government intends to define it in the implementing regulation. This opens a loophole that can continue to open up opportunities for corruption through legislation. This is not appropriate in such a level of legislation, which has a significant impact on the revenue of the budget or weakens the regulatory environment known to licensees. We therefore recommend that the reference of fuels to the quality standard should continue to be included in the norm, and that it be required. Thank you.
u2016-06-06-286	I am asking my fellow Members if anyone else would like to comment on the debate. [[There's no candidate.]] I don't see a candidate. The debate is closed and I give the floor to the rapporteur, Mr András Tállai, State Secretary.
u2016-06-06-287	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, I'd like to respond briefly. Two fundamental questions were raised, not a word about the bill itself, which makes a major difference in the lives of excise goods distributors. There will be significant simplification, electronicisation, facilitation, and faster reporting, faster administration. The two sensitive points are the increase in the rate of excise duty. In the case of tobacco products, I would like to tell István Józsa that it has not just been decided that the tax on tobacco products should be increased to a minimum of EUR 115, but when we joined the European Union and was supported by the Hungarian Socialist Party. Therefore, even if István Józsa were Minister of National Economy, excise duty on tobacco products should be increased. You can criticize this, that certainly sounds good, but the reality is that this is not the government's will, it is our commitment to the European Union. The other issue, the linking of the rate of excise duty on fuels to the world market price, was also demanded by developments on the world market, as fuel prices have decreased significantly over the past few years, by more than HUF 100 per litre. There is such a significant reduction that, in the case of additional low fuel prices, the government proposes that an excess excise duty payment be made. However, on the one hand, this is backwards and forwards, so as the price of Brent oil changes - bound by the bill - if the rate rises above $50, the rate of excise duty will decrease. On the other hand, let us not forget that farmers, businesses, carriers can claim this back, so businesses will not be directly affected. I think that a responsible government must make decisions as a result of world market developments, because the protection of the budget, the acquisition of revenue are essentially the responsibility of the government and the pro-government representatives, not of the opposition representatives. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, I believe that the excise law can also be voted with a calm conscience, with a calm heart, in the course of tomorrow, and announced to businesses that they should have time to prepare for it before the entry into force of 2017. Thank you for the attention of the Parliament. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-06-06-288	Ladies and gentlemen, The decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting. The Commission's reports on the amendment of Act C of 2015 on Hungary's central budget for 2016 and the discussion of the summarised amendment proposal follow. [[19.30]] The government referral is T/10534. The Commission's non-autonomous texts are available on the parliamentary IT network. I would like to inform you that the proposal is being discussed as a minority item by the Parliament. The debate will be the first to present the position of the Committee on Budgets, in which I shall give the floor to Lajos Szűcs, the rapporteur of the Committee.
u2016-06-06-289	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, In the following legislative proposals, the legislative committee was responsible for the Committee on Budgets, and I would therefore like to share this opinion with you. In addition to the designated Committee on Budgets, only the Committee on Nationalities in Hungary joined the discussion of the bill amending the 2016 Central Budget. The detailed debate was held by our committee on 18 May, where there was no real debate. Opinion delivered by the Committee T/10534/10. You can find it in the number of pages on the network, in which it was found that the motion was in accordance with the decision-making house rule. The amendment of the 2015 Act is necessary because since the adoption of the 2016 budget last spring, there have been a number of demands and processes to be answered. It is a good thing that we can talk about a budgetary amendment that does not provide abstract but extra resources, all without affecting the cash flow deficit and, as a result of the balance-neutrality of the changes, does not increase public debt. The surplus on the expenditure side will be covered by higher tax revenues resulting from the 2015 processes - corporate tax, general sales tax, excise duty, personal income tax, social contribution tax - and tax revenues, as well as by budgetary processes that are positive in 2016. Government measures to improve tax morale, such as the EKAER, online cash registers, have contributed to the increase in the additional resources. As stated at the committee meeting, it is an interesting fact that the unexpected negative first quarter GDP is not reflected in the first quarter revenue of the budget. I believe that, from this point of view, we can rightly assume that this is only a temporary setback. Ladies and gentlemen, In view of the measures taken by the proposal to provide a significant additional source of funding, for example, for the programme of modern cities, for the Irinyi János industrial strategy plan, for the home creation programme, for road renovations, I would like to ask my fellow Members to support the motion in tomorrow's vote and in the final vote next week's vote. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-06-06-290	I will ask Mr Péter Benő Banai, State Secretary, if he would like to comment now. [[For signal:]] He doesn't want to. Now we're going to hear from the representatives. In this context, I give the floor first to Mr Mihály Witzmann.
u2016-06-06-291	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, There is a bill before us that wants to amend this year's budget in such a way that it does not contain restrictions or withdrawals, as unfortunately we have seen many times before in previous socialist governments, but we can actually say that it wants to devote significant extra resources to education, home creation, and a modern city programme and, among other things, industrial development. We are pleased to say that the government can now do this, because budget processes are more favourable than expected and more taxes are being introduced than planned. By the way, the general debate of the bill, as my colleague Lajos Szűcs, Vice-President of our committee mentioned, took place on 13 May, and then the Committee on Budgets also held a detailed debate on 18 May. Of course, the proposals for amendments were received, several of which were supported by the committee, given that the Committee on Budgets also acts as a legislative committee for budgetary law, expressed a further intention to amend the so-called TAB section and submitted a summary amendment proposal, which can be found on the parliamentary network on T/10534/12. It's a paper number. Ladies and gentlemen, Allow me to highlight only the most important of these amendments in my speech. According to point 2, the amount of the judicial salary will be HUF 391 600 until 30 September 2016 and HUF 411 180 from 1 October. According to paragraph 7, the Government intends to commemorate Lajos Návay, the former President of the Parliament, by making a statue, so the amendment creates the financial cover for this noble act. At 10-11, the proposal provides additional resources to the National University of Public Service in view of the increased operating costs due to the investment of Ludovika Campus, as well as the loss of revenue resulting from the introduction of reimbursement courses. Points 14 and 15 intend to provide additional resources for the development of the MVH's IT system. Point 18 requires direct connection of handling machines to NAV in order to whiten the economy and increase public tax revenues. Point 19 proposes a transfer of approximately HUF 2 billion of aid to the development of Pest county, given that the region is not entitled to draw significant EU funds in the future for the known reasons. Point 22 provides for approximately HUF 500 million to begin the construction of the multifunctional hall in Tatabánya. Points 25, 26 and 27 contain amendments to the priority breakdown of the Klebelsberg Institution Support Centre. The breakdown of the priority appropriations for the CLIK appropriation is currently disproportionate in terms of the distribution of expenditure by an organisation of this size and therefore the proposed transfer between the priority appropriations can actually ensure a more balanced financing for 2016. In point 29, the performance of the professional tasks of the six major sports clubs in the capital justifies the expansion of resources. On the basis of point 33, the proposal aims to provide funding for the events of the 1956 Memorial Year in Germany. Finally, points 39 and 40 intend to support the development of the Kölcsey High School in Szatmárném with financial resources. Ladies and gentlemen, Since the proposed changes wish to make appropriate and useful amendments without exception, I respectfully ask my fellow Members to support by their votes the amendment of Act C of 2015 on Hungary's central budget for 2016. Thank you for listening. [[It's a rare round of applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-06-06-292	As a pre-notified speaker, the speaker invited by the nationality committee will now take place within a five-minute time frame. I give the floor to Mr Imre Ritter, a German ethnic advocate.
u2016-06-06-293	Sehr geehrter Herr Vorsitzender! Sehr geehrtes Parliament! Erlauben Sie mir bitte, dass ich im Namen und im Auftrag vom Ausschuss der in Ungarn lebenden Nationalitäten unseren Standpunkt bezüglich des Gesetzesvorschläges Nr. T/10534. über den ungarischen Staatshaushalts 2016, Änderung des Gesetz Jahr 2015 Nr. C. - im Zusammenhang mit den Nationalitäten übergreifende Teilen - erörtere. Mr President, Dear House, Please allow me, on behalf of the Committee on Nationalities in Hungary, to express our position on the amendment of Act C of 2015 on the Central Budget of 2016 T/10534. in relation to the legislative proposal No 1 and its parts concerning nationalities. The submitted bill did not contain any amendment to the nationalities of Hungary directly. At the same time, a compromise was reached during the conciliation of the national needs of the 2017 draft budget law, which resulted in the Hungarian Nationalities Committee submitting an amendment to the 2016 central budget bill of HUF 400 million to the Ministry of Human Resources XX. This appropriation is intended to cover commitments remaining to be settled from previous years in accordance with Article 21 of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 of the European Parliament and of the Council (OJ L 347, 20.12.2013, p. 965). This will increase the budget of HUF 882.4 million in the original central budget of 2016 to HUF 1 billion of HUF 282.4 million. During the general discussion of the 2017 central budget bill, President János Fuzik has already presented and analysed in detail the increased tasks which fall to the national and local minority self-governments, their associations, which have taken over, maintain and operate national minority institutions. [[19.40]] It also pointed out in detail what specific national investment and renovation works are already under way from HUF 882.4 million in the initial allocation. During the general debate, Mr Demeter also pointed out that 110 ethnic institutions are now in minority self-government reservations. The majority of them are public educational institutions, but there are also ethnic museums, ethnic cultural institutes, ethnic research institutes and ethnic theatres. 74 of them are national minority self-governments, 35 are local minority self-governments and one is an association of local minority self-governments. This number will be increased by the implementation by 1 September 2016 of the already decided and authorised nationalisation institutions of public education, by the entry of about one and a half dozen nationalities institutions and by more than ten local self-governments and their associations as institution-sustainers. The importance of increased tasks with the institutions taken over is well felt by the fact that although the exact current number of children will be available after 1 September 2016, from the autumn of this year more than 10 thousand children will be required to perform their educational and educational tasks only in the receiving national minority public education institutions, minority kindergartens, ethnic primary schools and ethnic secondary schools. The long-term, high-quality performance of national minority tasks makes it essential to ensure the coverage and, in the case of tenders, the necessary part of themselves for the continuous renovation, necessary and necessary enlargement, investment work of national minority institutions. In the event of the adoption of this HUF 400 million amendment to the 2016 Central Budget Act, together with HUF 882,4 million in the 2017 Budget Bill, we can take a big step forward in 2017 to substantially improve the state of nationality institutions operating in the maintenance of minority self-governments in order to ensure the infrastructure conditions for long-term operation. Therefore, on behalf of the Committee on Nationalities in Hungary, we kindly ask you to support, like in the last two years, the proposal to amend the nationalities living in Hungary, and to ask for the kindly adoption of the amended central budget bill for 2016. Thank you for listening. Danke für Ihre Aufmerksamkeit!
u2016-06-06-294	I now give the floor to Congressman László Szakács.
u2016-06-06-295	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, My opening sentence is always that the budget is also a clear choice of value, and I believe that the values that the government has chosen now when amending the budget - of course I will address them a little later - do not necessarily recognise the social problems and the social processes that we think the government should respond to now. He's prioritizing other things now, other things that he wanted to see, and that he wanted to solve, obviously sometimes for inexplicable reasons. First about the environment. One day, we will discuss the amendment of the 2016 budget and the 2017 budget, and I think that this goes against a lot of things that we learned at school at the time. There are many professional principles, which, at least, we say, would argue with this practice. It was the same last year, anyway, and we told you that. But if there is anything else that we are going to do before the 2015 final report is adopted, that is, without the 2015 facts, with the 2016 Ith quarter facts, while we accept the 2017 budget, I believe that this is more than courage in this case. So from a professional point of view, I think that we all learned something different in school when it comes to making a headway. It is a good fact that even if the budget seems to have an additional revenue - even if we do not necessarily agree with every tax levied, if we do not necessarily agree with every procedure - and from 2015 it is possible to draw from the year that the surplus of 400 billion forints is generated in this budget, of course, it must be accepted and the question must be asked whether, while the Prime Minister is calling a crisis meeting, as the performance of the Hungarian economy is so high in the first quarter of 2016, then, Mr State Secretary, it is expected that this surplus, which is now being distributed, will remain as long as it is intended to be used. 'Cause now they're labeling this money, and they've promised it, but it's just a question of whether this kind of power will last for when they want to use it. By supporting a clear choice of value, when we, as left-wing people, see different priorities, of course, but there are objective facts in this. There are objective facts, such as health, education or the social sphere, where this could be used for wage setting, where this could be used for infrastructure development, where, by increasing sustainability, the sense of security could increase the availability of community services in these sectors. This is where I think of the need to raise wages in health institutions, to renovate them, to buy tools. In the social sphere, it can't be that anyone who works there as a social worker only makes a little more money than he himself cares for, who, let's say, is on community service. It is not possible to make prestige investments in a country with a 0.9 percent pension increase, because we believe that social justice, jointly agreed justice, is obviously being violated, and I believe that it is a violation of many people's sense of justice. Of course, it is important to give five sports clubs in Budapest more operational support, because we should remember that about HUF 5.5 billion has been included in the previous budget for five football teams in Budapest, I am talking specifically about Budapest Honvéd, BVSC... [[Z. Carpathian on Daniel's mark.]] We're talking about Fradi, these are the teams we're talking about. They have already received 5.5 billion forints for facility maintenance, and these teams have already received money for operation. Now you'll get more money. I think, let's say, the National Rescue Service would have this money in a much better place. Don't just promise them 2 billion next year, they could have had more this year. The Olympic movement must be important, and it is important to have a new National Olympic Centre, and I believe that this cannot compete with, say, the National Rescue Service in terms of its budget support. It is important for our public buildings to be beautiful, but it may not be when we offer our pensioners a 0.9 percent increase. We believe that the NGM building is not in such a bad condition that it has to provide this kind of budget right now. These are the value choices where there is a collapsing health care system, an education system that keeps the people in it protesting and public services where the government has something to do with the state guarantees and the public safety net, should not be used for prestige investments where there is additional revenue. The question is, of course, by the time they want to use it, there will still be. Thank you very much for your kind attention.
u2016-06-06-296	I now give the floor to Congresswoman Erzsébet Schmuck. [[19.50]]
u2016-06-06-297	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, This year's budget changes are dealing with precisely the mistakes that the LMP has already indicated. The government does not expect the further slowdown of the Hungarian economy and hopes that the first quarter of GDP was only a temporary decline, which can be compensated in terms of annual overall performance. However, trusting this in the current world market situation and internal processes is a very big mistake. The largest financial institutions affecting the global economy, such as Barclays, have already started to pay back self-destructive mortgages. We all know what kind of process the mass of uncovered loans generated in 2007 and what situation Hungary was in. As interest rates rise, these loans can fall, causing a new credit crisis. The outlook for the global economy has deteriorated since last year, and the OECD has also deteriorated its forecasts. The driving forces of the Hungarian economy are also weak. Multi-annual exports are also fluctuating, but the drawdown of EU funds will not take place as planned, both because of lack of absorption capacity and because of the weakness of the institutional system and, thirdly, because of repeated suspensions and resource retention. Domestic economic researchers also indicate a 2 percent increase rather than a 2.5 percent increase in the budget. The difference will mean hundreds of billions. Therefore, the LMP proposes that the additional revenue generated this year should not be spent, but that the government should reserve it. They should be more responsible for their spending than the current law does. Our position is clearly that the current economic model is unsustainable, which creates huge problems for Hungarian society. Just because most of the extra income, the HUF 200 billion increase in corporate tax, comes from a one-off item, because Hungary provides very favourable tax conditions for multinational companies to which the current government, as they claim, is not a supplier. This lured General Electric, one of the largest giant companies, to pay a profit of 4,000 billion forints here. Due to the transaction, General Electric's tax is reduced by HUF 1500 billion, and the Hungarian state is now winning 500 billion. It is a grotesque thing for the government to complain that foreign companies are taking their profits home, and that their citizens are fleeing their income to tax havens, while they make Hungary a tax haven, even though there are no winners of the downward tax competition, only the multinationals. The LMP's position is clearly that the additional income from tax advantages, which derives from the service of multinational companies, should not be spent and distributed unnecessarily. In the current economic situation and the uncertainty of unpredictable world market movements, the government should reserve this amount for worse days so that it does not be forced to even brutally restrict in the second half of the year. There is also another mystery about the 2016 budget revenue. The revenues of state land sales to around HUF 300 billion are not reflected in the 2015 budget or in the 2016 budget. This is worrying, since these resources could only be used to increase the wealth of the land. If they just make it disappear, they're breaking the law. During the last week, János Lázár answered the journalistic question in the government briefing that the government would use the proceeds from the sale of land to develop an industrial park. He also mentioned that the government might also use the amount received to reduce debt. The LMP draws the government's attention to the need to reduce debt and there are many other options, such as stopping Paks II. investment. These revenues should serve to increase national land assets, and the government has a dog's duty to comply with the law. Thank you for your attention.
u2016-06-06-298	I now give the floor to Congressman Dániel Z. Carpát.
u2016-06-06-299	Mr President, Dear House, We do not expect a serious debate to unfold, but we will unwaveringly express our comments that would give rise to opportunities, because it is precisely the government's faulty fiscal policy and attitude that is being demonstrated by the fact that there is a very large amount that can actually be distributed or channeled into certain banks. Perhaps, if the draft budget for the period concerned had not been submitted so early, perhaps if they had been working with a rule of n-2 in the possession of the facts, such a change or modification resulting from the unpredictable spill-over effects could have been avoided. But if we are looking at the state of grace that there really are 400-500 billion in sums and lots flying around, and they are actually, if not free, because they are often strapped or in force majeure situations, but they can be channeled, Jobbik has proposed two lines for the government that would have a long-term, amazingly positive multiplier effect on the national economy and could even multiply those amounts. Obviously, one of the pillars could be a full reduction in VAT for almost the whole range of basic foods and for very important child-rearing articles. The other is a public housing programme with a public background which would be covered in this package. If we can only assume that the number of newly built properties is at a historic low point, so we have worked with 8-9 thousand facts compared to 42-43 thousand minimums per year in recent years, then we can see that with a slightly more serious attitude, recognizing the market needs, there is a huge shortage of new-built apartments, and we need to help them reach the top, but there is also an amazing shortage in the sublet market. Here Uber versus taxi drivers must be referred back to debate. The government has left behind an unregulated environment, which applies not only to Uber, but also to other tax avoidance mechanisms and other similar Community-type solutions, which need to be regulated rather than persecuted. The example of unregulatedness is the Airbnb application, whereby thousands of potential apartments have been removed from the Budapest real estate market. Let's play with the thought experiment: what a Hungarian pension needs to stand up to make a pension from its building and how many clicks from a typical apartment on Király utca can make a hostel in virtual space. The contrast is amazing. At the same time, it should be noted that the thousands of properties that have been removed have caused a price boom in the Pest-side sublet market, which my fellow Member Gergely Farkas has always said, and what young people, young Hungarians, have to pay, or the middle-aged and older people who are forced to rent. A solution could be found: if there is a shortage of supply in a market, the government will have to intervene, strengthen the supply side a little, where appropriate, with a public housing programme. You could do this by using Hungarian qualified contractors. You could do this by putting this system on Hungarian suppliers, reviving a good part of the historical Hungarian production capacity. This could be a viable model, and, in the end, thousands of new tens of thousands of new tens of thousands of new tens of thousands of new tenements per year could be expected to be reduced to up to a third to a quarter of the current market price, especially by using central material supply and other techniques that can substantially reduce prices. And if we add that the meaning of the meaningless flow of public works in many places could be given in such a way, with such a method, and even many of the properties left empty could be brought back to life in Hungary by thousands and tens of thousands, then we see that there is a solution here in this package amending the budget. At least these two pillars could be implemented, which would be covered here. I would like to draw attention to another amendment, not of a gesture at all, which is not of a cosmetic nature. Controlled reproduction, the priority support of various flask baby programs, serves the most important goal of national strategy in Hungary if it could be implemented in its entirety. But we are still saying that young Hungarians who would otherwise give the Hungarian country the greatest service by having children despite the difficulties still have to pay for themselves in many cases during the experiment. This is simply untenable, as it leads to an unhealthy selection within society, whose financial background is more fortunate, more favourable, and it will certainly be given the greater opportunity to do so, but I believe that everyone deserves this chance and opportunity. It can therefore be said that there would be an immediate need for intervention, up to ten billion in the order of directed reproduction processes, flask baby program and its associates. I think of this to the point where, for financial reasons, no one in Hungary can be deterred from having children or experimenting with them. [[20.00]] It is therefore quite clear that all Hungarians must have the same life opportunities in this area. Jobbik therefore calls on the government to prove, by taking a very important step towards our reproduction along these two pillars, what it could not prove here in words as a family-friendly government, let us say, in the case of intervention in the VAT system, when it only made a cosmetic VAT reduction instead of a full-scale reduction. At least prove yourself here, because every Hungarian life is sacred, every Hungarian life is very expensive, and in the middle of such a demographic disaster, in which we are now, and from which, by the way, the possibilities of the eruption are hardly seen anywhere in the world, it would be their duty to intervene. Thank you for your attention. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2016-06-06-300	I now give the floor to Congressman István Józsa.
u2016-06-06-301	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, The excerpts mentioned as an example by my fellow Member, Mr Mihály Witzmann, and this list of things that you would like to use for, I think they are out of the question. So they found good goals, of course. What is perhaps a little more worrying is whether they have actually found the 400 billion that can be spent for these purposes. As has been said, this proposal was dated on 13 May; if I remember correctly, as if a little later that not very favorable first quarter data came out. But whether it was before or after, the performance of the first quarter must be taken into account, with Mr András Tállai pointing out that it does not seem to be this temporary - we very much hope - the impact of the fall in the budget. So when we look at such a year, which is not entirely certain, or at least a much weaker year than expected, than in 2016, we think it would be better to wait with this amending budget to see what the year will bring. The other thing I would like to mention is education and health care. There was a very detailed, very thorough health debate day here in Parliament, where, to your praise, the Secretary of State for Health has seriously agreed to the debate and has admitted five times that, yes, what my fellow Members say about the opposition side, this would be necessary, but we cannot do this now because of the budgetary constraints we know. So when you have accurately identified that health care is in a terrible critical situation, when it appears that it is very urgent to put money there, you should change your values, as my colleague László Szakács said. I am sure that it is important to support these major sports clubs, and also the Tatabánya Hall, the locals would very much like to, but be aware of what is being said here in Parliament, to pay attention to what has been said here, to the collective wisdom, to the feedback that Parliament is about the opinion of society, to take into account and to bring here a different amending budget. Thank you.
u2016-06-06-302	I will ask my fellow Members if anyone would like to comment on the debate. [[No signal.]] I do not see a candidate, so the debate is closed and I give the floor to Mr Péter Benő Banai.
u2016-06-06-303	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, I would like to respond briefly to the points raised at this stage of the debate. I think that there have been many issues that have already been raised in the general debate, but I think that the past time has not changed these issues, and I think that the time that has passed shows that the government's responses to the issues and the problems raised are correct. Why do I say that? Because one of the questions now was whether substantial additional revenue could indeed be expected in this year's budget, which could cover additional expenditure. I believe that there is basically a professional consensus that hundreds of billions of additional revenue is expected in this year's budget, the use of which does not jeopardise the 2 percent deficit target and the reduction of public debt. As Mr Lajos Szűcs said, the figures of economic growth in the first quarter, which are indeed somewhat surprising to analysts, do not appear at all on the budget. I can now present not only the first 4 months of data to the Honourable Parliament, but the first 5 months of public finances will be presented in detail tomorrow. On this basis, we can say that, based on the first 5 months, i.e. the period ending in May, we can account for the most favourable central budget figures for the last 15 years. In addition to these extremely favourable budget figures, we also see that the number of people employed is increasing and real wages are increasing, which is a significant support for the budget. If we look at these figures and consider that substantial additional revenues can be used for additional expenditure, then the question is indeed what is the economic policy that characterizes the use of budgetary revenue, what is the value choice to which the Members have drawn attention. I think that socialist party representatives are banging open gates in many respects when education and health are mentioned in value choice. In the area of education, there is an extra 100 billion in expenditure on education, and as far as health is concerned, allow me to quote the initial bill amendment proposal. The motion contains the following on page 69 of the statement of reasons. The government is conducting ongoing consultations on the pay situation of healthcare workers with interest representatives and professional organisations. Where, as a result of these consultations or on the basis of a decision of the Government, additional resources are required for health in 2016, it may be ensured, on the basis of a mandate provided by the Finance Act, by increasing certain appropriations for the provision of preventive medical assistance during the year. The government can therefore provide additional resources to the health sector in 2016 in its own power, taking into account the budgetary margin. This does not require any amendment of the Finance Act. Now, after this text, let me confirm the government's intention that, when agreed with the organisations concerned, both nurses and doctors will be able to provide additional resources to the government and the government will be able to provide the workers concerned. Congressman Cook mentioned an ambulance. The originally submitted bill amendment includes a HUF 2 billion plus for the purchase of cars this year, in 2016, and let us not forget that although there are no doubt a number of tasks ahead of us in the field of health, the government has spent more than HUF 500 billion on investment from EU funds. As far as the rest of the amendment is concerned, this motion does indeed cover a very significant amount of private and public investment. If we are talking about economic policy and economic growth, investment data, we also need to see that all these additional investments can lead to a positive change in the investment rate and in the growth of the economy, and I stress that, in addition, the general government deficit target and the reduction of public debt are not affected. If you like, these amendments will respond to the first monthly data mentioned by honourable Members. And let me point out one more thing in terms of the judgment of the motion or its economic policy characterization. I am pleased that no one has questioned the Government's intention to make substantial increases in expenditure related to the threat of terrorism, since this is a item that serves the country's security. Regarding Mr Dániel Z. Carpathian's suggestion, there is 50 billion forints plus for home creation. Indeed, there is a difference in value between Jobbik and the government. The government basically supports access to property, and the fact that in the construction market, the housing market, there is a rush that we see, on the one hand, it shows that there is a significant demand for new housing, a significant retail savings that turn to the purchase of new homes, and indeed the government's help is a significant incentive for families who have decided to build new homes. [[20.10]] Now there is state extra support in this year's budget with a HUF 50 billion plus that allows the families concerned to access the new apartments. Finally, let me highlight one more item from the budget amendment before the Honourable Parliament. In addition to the positive budgetary figures so far, the proposal also proposes a surplus for unforeseen processes. In particular, the extraordinary government measures and the appropriation of the National Defence Fund would be increased by HUF 30 billion, i.e. the government did not propose to use all the additional revenue that has just been seen in full by the Government on the basis of the Parliament's decision. I mean, I think that, in addition to pairing parts of the surplus that have now been identified with expenditure, the system of reserves will continue to ensure that these extra investment, education, health or security expenditures are implemented in such a way that the reduction of public debt can be achieved with sufficient certainty. On this basis, I propose to the Honourable Parliament the support for the amendment of the 2016 Budget Act submitted. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-06-06-304	Ladies and gentlemen, The decision on the summary amendment proposal is expected to take place on tomorrow's meeting. The Commission's reports on the basis of Hungary's central budget for 2017 and the final amendment proposal are now under discussion. The government referral is T/10536. The Commission's non-autonomous texts are available on the parliamentary IT network. I would like to inform you that the proposal is being discussed as a minority item by the Parliament. First, the position of the Legislative Committee and the formulated minority opinion will be presented within a 15-minute time frame. I give the floor to Roland Mengyi, rapporteur of the committee.
u2016-06-06-305	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, The Legislative Committee discussed T/10536. The draft law on the basis of Hungary's central budget for 2017 was submitted by 23 votes in favour, 9 against and 1 abstention. The summarised amendment contains the text of the Budget Committee and the legislative committee's own proposal, which also clarifies the committee's proposal for amendment in one point. Among the proposals adopted, I would like to highlight the fact that, in addition to the District Court in Szigetszentmiklós, the Ráckeve District Court also creates the conditions for its continued operation. I would also like to draw attention to the fact that, thanks to the amendment proposal, the bill does not change the legal institution for registered partnerships or also clarifies the budgetary support rules for kindergarten opening hours. According to point 46 of the summarised amendment proposal, if the daily opening hours are less than 8 hours, the budgetary support shall not be granted in full to the maintainer and the rate of support shall be laid down in the Central Budget Act. Thanks to this proposal, kindergartens open for 6 hours a day can also receive budgetary support in the future. The bill is 99. In the context of Article 4 of the Directive, the amending proposal clarifies the scope of the data to be protected in a contract concluded by public companies providing the activities concerned as a main activity. The proposal makes the scope of data to be protected clear, well-defined and sufficiently restrictive, thereby enforcing the principle of data protection, ensuring legal certainty, the enforcement of constitutional requirements in the field of law enforcement and a proportionate restriction on freedom of information. The amendment proposal clarifies the period during which the data to be protected in the contracts, as well as the financial and technical data relating to the preparation, conclusion of these contracts, as well as the basis for the decisions relating thereto, cannot be identified. The uniform period of time laid down in the proposal for the precise scope of data is in line with the constitutional requirements of the temporary restriction, as well as the requirements of necessity and proportionality. I would like to note that this clarification was fully agreed by the President of the Data Protection Authority, as he explained at the committee meeting. I believe that it is a fundamental national interest that, for example, financial and technical data relating to the operation of nuclear installations cannot be made public for 30 years, as has long been recognised by all EU Member States. That is why I am asking you to support this proposal. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-06-06-306	Mr András Schiffer is not here, so the presentation of the minority opinion is now cancelled. I'll ask the author if he'd like to comment now. [[For signal:]] Secretary of State says no. The designated Committee on Budgets did not draft a rapporteur, so now the speeches will be held by its representatives. First, I give the floor to Congressman Tamás László.
u2016-06-06-307	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, The bill on the foundation of Hungary's central budget for 2017 is now before us, the general debate of which took place on 13 May. At its meeting on 28 May, the Committee on Budgets discussed a number of amendments tabled to the bill, of which two were supported. The committee did not submit a separate amendment to the proposal, but at its meeting on 2 June the Committee on Legislative Affairs expressed a further intention to amend it. The summarised amendment proposed by T/10536/44. I'd like to be briefed. As we know, the most important task of the legislative proposals on which the central budgets are based is to harmonise legislation in order to ensure consistency and smooth and legal implementation of the budget and tax laws. Dear House, Returning to the summary amendment tabled by the Legislative Committee, let me highlight its key elements. A large part of the amendments contain technical and linguistic specifications, so I would like to say nothing more about them, but only the most important ones. Point 5 aims to provide State-owned companies that do not qualify as account holders outside the Treasury with the possibility of holding a separate payment account at the Treasury for the receipt of budget support from EU funds. Point 6 is intended to record the tasks of the liquidity committee, which will continuously monitor the liquidity situation of the central budget. In point 11, there is no justification for the limitation of the number of local government service providers receiving home assistance and personal care, which is necessary to this end. Point 18 aims to allow the undertaker to process the personal data necessary for the administration of death, while leaving the provisions on non-valued services. Point 28 addresses the problem of recognising the contribution of motion picture training introduced by the bill as direct film production costs. Point 36 proposes that the provisions on registered partnerships be deleted from the need for clarification. Point 43 provides a source of the scholarship to be paid to students under the VET Act in the VET Bridge programme to be launched in the next academic year and of the allowance to be paid to participating teachers from the NFA Training Fund. Finally, let me highlight point 46, which allows for a more differentiated vote on kindergarten opening hours than was originally the intention of the legislator. [[20.20]] Dear House, In view of the above comments, I would like to ask you with respect to support the bill by voting tomorrow. Thank you for your attention. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2016-06-06-308	The speaker, who has now been announced, is invited by the nationality committee to speak. I give the floor to Mr Imre Ritter, a German ethnic advocate.
u2016-06-06-309	Sehr geehrter Herr Vorsitzender! Sehr geehrtes Parliament! Mr President, Dear House, Allow me, on behalf of the Committee on Nationalities in Hungary, to express our position on the basis of the T/10536 establishing the central budget for 2017. In the light of the above, the Commission considers that the measure does not constitute State aid within the meaning of Article 107 (1) of the Treaty. The Committee of Hungarian Nationalities is the 45th Resolution House Rule. Pursuant to paragraph 5 of Section 5, the Commission submitted a proposal for an amendment closing a detailed debate on the draft law on the foundation of Hungary's central budget for 2017. Our Commission is the bill 174. It proposed to supplement §2 of the Act on territorial development and spatial planning in two points: Article XXI of 1996 on territorial development and spatial planning. Law III/A Chapter 18 The National Regional Development Stakeholders Forum, hereinafter referred to as "OTELF', is to be added to the list of the government and the county municipalities, county ethnic authorities, the metropolitan government, the metropolitan self-governments, the metropolitan minority self-governments, and the rest of the list. With a text. The explanatory memorandum stated that, on the one hand, CLXXXIX of 2011 on the local governments of Hungary. LXXVIII of 1997 on the formation and protection of the built environment. Act No XXI of 1996 on territorial development and spatial planning It clearly follows from law that the development of settlements must take into account the strengthening of the identity of the local population, the preservation of the diversity and richness of their cultural heritage. On the other hand, the 2011 CLXXIX on the rights of nationalities. Act 118. Pursuant to § (1) (d), the national minority self-government exercises the right of agreement on issues directly affecting the national minority, such as county development plans. Furthermore, Article 2 of the Nationalities Act. According to paragraph 2 of Section 2, the fundamental interests and interests interests interests of the ethnic communities are the national authorities, and therefore the obligation to consult the county authorities on their local levels cannot be contested. Therefore, in our view, we have strongly proposed the involvement of county ethnic authorities in the work of OTEF, as well as the delegation of the OTEF. We are aware that the Legislative Committee is T/10536/45. As set out in its summary report No 13, the rapporteur did not agree, for various reasons, and on this basis the Legislative Committee did not support our proposed amendment. Nevertheless, we consider it important to raise this question once again, to talk about it, and to keep it on the agenda, as several nationalities living in Hungary live in one or more smaller regions that are well regionally defined, and the lack of territorial development of these regions in whole or in part may lead to the depopulation of ethnic settlements, the dispersal of some nationalities and, as a result, even their disappearance. On this basis, the Committee of Nationalities of Hungary will, after appropriate prior consultation, take the initiative again in autumn 2016 - now independently of the underlying law - on the 21st of 1996 on territorial development and spatial planning. The amendments to the Act, to which we ask for everyone's cooperation and support in advance. In the light of what has been said, the Committee on Nationalities in Hungary proposes the Commission's draft amendment and the amended T/10536 on the basis of Hungary's central budget for 2017. The adoption of bill No. 1 to this House. Thank you for your attention. Danke für Ihre Aufmerksamkeit! [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2016-06-06-310	I now give the floor to Congresswoman Erzsébet Schmuck.
u2016-06-06-311	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, The so-called salad law has not changed much since its submission: some new discounts for the film industry, Andy Vajna, some minor reliefs. On the other hand, harmful measures have not been abolished, and they continue to go in a disguise and disruptive direction. He knew that the most damaging measure of the bill was the encryption of the management of public energy companies for 5-30 years. On the basis of the proposal limiting the freedom of information, no relevant management information in the energy field would be available, and for all other public and municipal companies, the legislator would essentially entrust the conscience of the data controllers with what is being made public. This is a new level of state-organised robbery, which is completely unacceptable, and in an amendment we also propose that the phase be cancelled, consider how far they will go on the way to public money cuts. However, a slight shift can be seen: while earlier they wanted to eliminate the kindergartens of alternative education institutions by taking away budget support from those who have been open for less than eight hours, this has now been reduced to six hours. It is still incomprehensible, as children are equal, they would be entitled to support for their kindergarten care, in whatever form. Instead, we see that one child, according to the Orbán government, is worthy of support and the other is not. This distinction is unacceptable, especially from the Minister of Human Resources, which speaks about solidarity. Nor does the intention of destroying the environment change, the Wesselényi Miklós Ár és Belvízvédelmi Indemnification Fund is abolished. Once again, the poorest, and also vulnerable to flood and inland water damage, are hit. Instead of repairing a well - intentioned construction, they're pulling out of the case. Water companies are also bleeding out, which were local institutions for voluntary and self-interest water management, and could play a significant role in adapting to climate change with appropriate regulation. There was also an amendment to the Mining Act, even though the deadline for recultivation has already been amended several times. A further deferral would mean declaring that the State would impose on society the burden of using the environment instead of on the injured party. And there are further stages that ensure the irresponsible management and flow of public money. We have no reason to support this proposal. Thank you for your attention.
u2016-06-06-312	I am asking my fellow Members if anyone else would like to comment on the debate. [[There's no signal.]] I don't see a candidate. The debate is closed. I give the floor to Secretary of State Peter Benő Banai, the author.
u2016-06-06-313	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Allow me to point out from what has been said, from the debate so far, that only a few points of the bill containing a very large number of legislative amendments have been criticised by opposition representatives. This says to me that the majority of the motion submitted is agreed by a broad majority of Parliament. It agrees, for example, that, in the 2017 budget figures, the amount of the care fee is clearly increasing. It agrees that the benefits of an extraordinary child protection discount will also increase. It agrees that the prohibition of granting subsidies to companies with offshore backgrounds, the prohibition of contracting with these companies, will also be extended to the municipal sector. [[20.30]] Or the majority of the Honourable Parliament agrees that it is also appropriate and necessary to present detailed stock data to the Parliament when presenting the development of the public debt. I therefore consider it important to point out that there were only a few points where criticism and comments were given to the bill establishing the 2017 budget submitted. With regard to these criticisms, the government's intention regarding freedom of information was clear: on the one hand, the business interests of publicly owned companies must be protected, which often goes beyond business interests, and it is also about the protection of national security, financial and foreign interests, and, of course, the information of the companies concerned must also be made available. In order to achieve this dual goal simultaneously, the government has chosen a solution that has long been common practice in many countries of Europe. I would like to draw the attention of the Honourable Parliament to the fact that the more stringent information security provisions which have been mentioned many times only concern IT issues, and energy and IT financial security issues only in the energy and energy fields, so that companies in the energy sector have a clear motion containing specific regulation according to the final proposal. As far as this motion is concerned, President Attila Péterfalvi, President of the National Authority for Data Protection and Freedom of Information, agrees with the final form of the motion, as has been said. I believe that this is a guarantee in addition to the international practice mentioned, which ensures that the necessary information on the management of state-owned companies will continue to be available in the future. As regards the revision of the public education law that was criticised, the proposal submitted was intended to provide budgetary support to kindergartens, institutions that ensure opening hours for at least eight hours. The government's intention was to have a certain period of time in order to protect the families, so it is not only in the interest of the institutions, but also in the interests of Hungarian families. The final proposal, I think, shows the government's openness in terms of, as has been said, that budgetary support may be granted to kindergartens open for at least six hours if the motion is adopted; they will, as appropriate, receive a proportionate amount of support compared to kindergartens where this opening hours are at least eight hours. Let me mention the statistics: the average opening hours are far above eight o'clock, so the government had no intention of making alternative kindergartens so to speak impossible. As has been said, the rule on registered partners, I think, has been a misunderstanding. The final proposal does not contain any amendments in this respect. Overall, I can say that the bill establishing the budget for 2017 before the Honourable Parliament in its final form serves the objectives of the government's economic policy, providing a direct and indirect basis for the 2017 budget, thus serving to strengthen families while increasing the economy at the same time. With this, I propose that the proposed legislation be supported and adopted. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-06-06-314	Dear Parliament, The decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting. The Commission's reports on Hungary's central budget for 2017 and the final amendment proposal are now under discussion. The submission is T/10377. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. [[The president's talking in a twitchy manner.]] Excuse me. I inform the Parliament that the presentation will be discussed as an EU and national agenda item by the Parliament. The detailed discussion of the draft budget law was conducted by the sectoral committees. Report by the Committee on Budgets as a designated committee on the detailed debate T/10377/1153. No. T/10377/1164, resolution No. The reports of the committees related to the debate are available on the IT network on numbers T/1037/1139, 1140, 1141, 1143, 1145, 1147, 1149, 1150, 1151, 1155, 1157, 1159 and 1162. Summary proposal of the Committee on Budgets acting as Legislative Committee during the hearing of the bill T/10377/1165. and the summary report on the Commission's proposals for amendments to the in-depth debate, T/10377/1166. Available on the website. The rapporteur of the Committee on Budgets shall be the first to take the floor in the debate. The rapporteur of the committee, including the opinions of the negotiating committees, and the description of the minority opinion, in summary of the minority opinions drafted in writing, may speak within a total 60-minute time-frame with a 30-minute time-frame for the presentation of the minority opinion. I give the floor to Lajos Szűcs, rapporteur for the Committee on Budgets. Excuse me.
u2016-06-06-315	Thank you for the floor, Mr President - I hope everything is all right. Dear House, Mr President, The draft central budget bill for 2017, the general debate of which took place on 11 and 12 May, followed by a detailed debate by the Committee on Budgets at its meeting on 19 May. Of course, the other Standing Committees of Parliament and the Committee of Nationalities of Hungary have also discussed it and, as rapporteur for the designated committee, I will also present their views. The negotiating committees have determined that the bill complies with the Rules of Procedure 44. § 1 of the Law, thus the bill meets the requirements of the Fundamental Law, the content and form of the law, it is in line with the unity of the legal system, it complies with the obligations arising from international law and European Union law, and it complies with the professional requirements of the legislation. I will now share the views of the negotiating committees with you. According to the Committee on Budgets, the most important message in the budget is that everyone can take another step forward. The tax reduction will continue next year, with important basic foods, milk, eggs and poultry VAT falling from 27 to 5 per cent, and as a result of the planned reduction of the VAT on restaurant catering from next year, an average Hungarian family can stay up to HUF 35-40 thousand per year. Internet access will also be cheaper, as from 2017 the VAT rate for Internet services will be reduced from 27 percent to 18 percent. In 2017, housing can also be offered new opportunities in Hungary, as next year's budget will spend more than HUF 200 billion to support the home creation of Hungarian families. We can say that, as a novelty in terms of operation, the country will have a budget of zero in 2017, and that the deficit that arises in financial terms is actually investment in the future, investment and development. 2017 is the first year since 2008, when the IMF-EU loan is no longer charged to the country's budget since its last repayment was repaid in 2016. The 2017 Budget Bill was drawn up in a conservative manner, the two central reserves, the National Defence Fund and the reserve for extraordinary government measures, to avoid unforeseen risks. [[20.40]] The system of reserves is strengthened by the stability reserve, which was also trained as a budget chapter in 2017, which, according to the government's decision, can only be used in the last quarter of the year. The economic policy over the past six years has clearly been successful, as economic growth is continuing, employment is increasing, our public debt is falling, we are out of the excessive deficit procedure and, as I mentioned, we have repaid the EU and IMF credit framework. The committee closed the detailed discussion of the bill on 19 May 2016. I now present to you the opinion of the Committee on Foreign Affairs. The budget of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Trade will increase by nearly 40 percent in 2017, to HUF 177 billion. The budget for the central administration of the Ministry will increase by 20 percent compared to this year, to HUF 9.5 billion, with HUF 1.6 billion more operating expenses. The amount available for foreign representations will also increase by 20 percent, by HUF 12.5 billion. Thirteen key foreign representations, including Berlin, London, Paris, Warsaw, Moscow, Vienna, New York and Beijing, will be fully renovated for a total of HUF 4 billion. The main new element of the Ministry's budget, which is largely for national policy purposes, is support for the economic development programme of neighbouring countries. A total of HUF 15.8 billion is available for this purpose. Of which 7.6 billion for Vojvodina, 5.2 billion for Transylvania, 1-1 billion forints for Transylvania and the Highlands, and half a billion for Croatian and Slovenian areas. This cross-border economic development programme has moved an unprecedented amount of resources since the change of regime, significantly increasing the conservation power of these areas, helping the Hungarian communities to thrive in their homeland. The committee closed the detailed discussion of the bill on 18 May 2016. Opinion of the Sustainable Development Committee. Hungary's economically sustainable career has been a significant result of the past six years, and it has been in a stable and secure budgetary position for several years after the precarious and risky situation before 2010. Public debt above the EU average before 2010 is now below the EU average and is on a declining path. Economic growth has started, with an additional resource for all disciplines included in the 2017 budget. The opinion of the Economic Committee was as follows. The government's economic policy for a sustainable fiscal path is increasingly recognised by the financial markets. This is a tangible sign that the cost of financing public debt has decreased significantly, and sovereign debt yields have also fallen to a record low in recent years. The Committee also agrees to protect the value of pensions. The real value of old-age benefits increased by 8.8 percent between 2011 and 2015 and the value of old-age benefits will continue to be maintained in 2017, so benefits will increase in line with the planned increase in consumer prices. Real wages have been rising for more than 36 months as a result of Hungarian reforms. Due to persistently low inflation, salaries retain their value. This trend will continue next year. On the basis of the above, the members of the Committee considered that the implementation of the 2017 budget would meet the objectives set out in the economic policy. Opinion of the National Security Committee. The 2017 budget of the Civil Secret Service and the Military National Security Service guarantees a framework for safe operation in compliance with legal regulations. In addition to the financing of staff, services will also be able to finance specific operational and development expenditure. Due to recent terrorist acts in Europe and the simultaneous migration crisis associated with them, the government must give priority to the security of the Hungarian people. Security cannot be a negotiation issue, so this area is also highlighted in the 2017 budget. According to the majority opinion of the National Security Committee of the National Assembly, the budget bill's appropriations for civil and military services ensure the full fulfilment of the duties of the secret services laid down by law. The Defense and Police Committee considers that the committee has determined that the bill complies with the resolution house rule 44. The requirements of paragraph 1 of paragraph 1 of this Article shall apply. The committee closed the bill on May 18th. The People's Welfare Committee has also found that it complies with the Rules of the House 44. § (1) of the proposal. The proposal was closed on 19 May 2016. The Cultural Committee has also made a similar conclusion. The Committee of Nationalities of Hungary has also established the Rules of the House 44. § (1) compliance with the requirements. The Judicial Committee also discussed and made the same findings. Opinion of the Committee on Agriculture. Supporting small and medium-sized estates, maintaining our country's GMO-free status, improving the state of the environment, promoting the sustainable use of natural resources, protecting biodiversity, as well as promoting livestock production and fruit and vegetables production remains a key priority in the FM budget. Both the food economy and agriculture will have more opportunities after the VAT cuts already started next year as a result of a 5% reduction in VAT on poultrymeat, eggs and milk. Although the VAT reduction results in a loss of revenue for the budget, it is largely offset by the additional income from increasing demand and the positive impact on the agricultural sector, it also contributes significantly to the reduction of the black economy and to the support of unfair competition on the market and legitimate domestic producers. The National Assembly Committee. The most important pillars of foreign Hungarians are Hungarian educational and cultural institutions and organizations. We cannot count on neighbouring states to maintain them, because in many cases, rather than support them, they make their operation more impossible. It is therefore up to the Hungarian State to assist, operate and develop the Hungarian institutional and organization system contributing to the preservation of Hungarian communities abroad. Since 2010, significant amounts have been spent on this purpose. However, additional resources will be available in 2017. The appropriations of the Bethlen Gábor Fund are nearly doubled, according to the draft budget, the resources of the Ministry of Human Resources for supporting Hungarian education and culture across the border are also increasing compared to this year. On this basis, the 2017 budget is a very important step towards creating the budget of the Hungarian single nation instead of Hungary's budget. With the increase in subsidies and the integration of large-scale economic development plans, we can make progress on this path. We are confident that we can use all these resources to benefit our fellow Hungarians across the border, to contribute to the strengthening of their communities and thus to their survival in their homeland. I present to you the opinion of the Enterprise Development Committee. The main objective of complex business development is to increase the income-generating capacity of companies with growth potential, in particular micro, small and medium-sized enterprises, in order to ensure their market position, which the budget contributes to by continuing positive measures taken in previous years, maintaining low tax burdens, providing SMEs with funding opportunities and EU funds, thereby increasing their potential to a large extent. [[20.50]] It also serves to ensure that the budget leaves more money to families. The favourable labour market trends in Hungary continue. In Hungary, more than 4 million 250 000 people have never worked since the change of regime. This means that the number of people employed has increased by more than half a million since the government shift in 2010, of which nearly 300,000 have been given by the competition sphere. The reduction of labour taxes, the job protection action plan, the government's targeted employment programmes and the turnaround of growth in 2013 have a major role to play in the growth of the number of employees. I am giving the opinion of the Committee on European Affairs. It was stressed that the 2017 budget meets the key conditions of the Maastricht criteria, the general government deficit below 3 per cent and the declining government debt in proportion to GDP. The committee closed the detailed discussion of the bill on 17 May 2016. In addition, Mr House, Mr President, on the basis of the summarised opinions that have been delivered, I would ask this House to support the bill. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-06-06-316	The minority opinion will now be presented, which will be presented by a total of three Members within a 30-minute timeframe. First, I give the floor to Congressman László Szakács.
u2016-06-06-317	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen of the State Secretary. Dear House, The important consequence of raising the budget deficit to 2.4 percent is that the structural deficit is also rising next year, and the government is violating the rule imposed by the European Union, which has been passed by the Hungarian legislation into the Stability Act and which requires Hungary to meet a structural deficit of 1.7 percent in proportion to GDP. The Hungarian economy can only tolerate such a shortage in the longer term, which is why this should be approached rather than removed from it. In view of the fact that the Act on Economic Stability also includes an obligation to close to the structural deficit, the draft budget bill does not therefore comply with all public financial requirements. The State Audit Office agreed with this in its report, and even the Fiscal Council expressed its concern in this regard. A general risk to the achievement of the budgetary objective is that 53,3% of expenditure appropriations are so-called "top-up appropriations', i.e. appropriations which can be exceeded without amending the law. On the basis of the detailed control of all such appropriations, the State Audit Office concluded that four appropriations were not sufficiently well-founded. On this basis, there is a need for sufficient detail and a breach of the requirement of transparency. In view of what has been explained, the bill does not, in our view, comply with Parliament's resolution on the House Rule 44. § (1) of the regulation. In terms of content, in our view, it should be rejected that the 2017 budget envisages an even more supportive year for the rich. In fact, the opportunity to move forward for political gain is only for those with higher incomes, and only a few hundred forints per month, perhaps even a few thousand forints per month, can remain on the basis of the VAT reduction. We are also lagging behind in relation to the countries in the region, and as it turns out, we will be lagging behind next year. In 2016, even the government expects an increase of 2.5 per cent, Slovakia will increase by 3.2 per cent in the same year, Poland will increase by 3.7 per cent in the same year and Romania will increase by 4.2 per cent in the Commission's forecasts. Not to mention that, on the basis of the latest economic indicators, GDP is again declining, which is the last place in the EU in the government's economic policy. According to the findings of international organisations, including the OECD, the economic indicators in Hungary have not improved either, but this is certainly not sustainable in the long term. The Hungarian government either does not do enough to change the things that underpin growth in the right direction, or sometimes even makes it worse. According to the draft budget, next year the government will spend less on the social area in terms of GDP and expenditure distribution than this year. Social assistance remains largely unchanged, only a few benefits are increased, but to a facially low level, while the state will spend more on itself and its leaders. All this, in addition to increasing the proportion of people living below the minimum, means that the government will give nothing of the growth that it believes is expected. Hungary is still underperforming, in any case in terms of social expenditure. Next year, the government is expecting a 3.1 percent increase. The share of expenditure on welfare functions in general government expenditure is reduced by 2 percentage points, from 56.9 per cent to 54.8 per cent. In the broad-based social area, the proportion of social security and welfare services will be lower next year than in GDP this year. In the middle of the crisis, in 2009, the government spent 17.7 percent of GDP on social policy expenditure, next year it will be 14 percent. In eight years, the government has reduced the share of social expenditure by nearly 4 percentage points. The government will continue to increase pensions with inflation rates, which will be increased by 0.9 percent in total. This will mean a few hundred forints for hundreds of thousands of pensioners living below the minimum living age, my fellow Members. We consider it necessary to transfer some HUF 350 billion to deal with health problems in line with the proposed amendment. In this context, the submitted bill plans to provide an additional HUF 180 billion for the humiliating income situation in addition to the wage increase. We would provide an additional HUF 60 billion for the wage development of healthcare workers moving abroad, as well as for the general medical system and for the support of young start-up doctors for the purchase of practice rights. It is essential to ensure an additional HUF 50 billion in order to preserve the functioning of the pharmaceutical support system and to increase the range of medicines at affordable prices. From the point of view of education policy, the 2017 budget figures also show that Fidesz does not know exactly what to do in the area of education. However, confusion is well felt by the fact that, contrary to promises, the institution of the KLIK will remain next year. Our amendment in this area proposes a total transfer of HUF 222.6 billion without compromising the balance of the budget bill. That was a minority opinion of the committee. In view of this, please support our amendments. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2016-06-06-318	I now give the floor to Mrs. Loránt Violin.
u2016-06-06-319	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, Maybe I won't tell you anything new or I won't surprise you if I tell you that the Jobbik Hungary Movement didn't support the 2017 draft budget law in any of the committees. On the other hand, in my speech today, unlike my fellow Member, Szakács, I would rather say and mention specifics rather than general critical remarks, which have already been partly said at the Committee on Budgets, but life has partially overwritten or further coloured these specific problems. The first thing I would like to mention is the question of the civil servant's salary fund. We recommend this every year, we submit it to the government. You know very well that there is a great need to increase this salary base. 35 thousand municipal civil servants will be left out of the wage development that will now be passed on to public officials next year. And obviously not only municipal officials or civil servants are subject to this salary fund, but also to everyone, such as the workers of this House, who receive their salaries as civil servants. [[21.00]] This is what has not been increased since 2008, i.e. since the Gyurcsány-IMF and the EU pact. And in any case, you defend yourself by saying that at least it hasn't been reduced. What we know is not so, because according to the customer's value, this income obtained in this way has lost its value, about 30% overall and on average. However, what is surprisingly new in one of the final amendments to the Budget Act is that the government now wants to give the municipalities the opportunity to give certain types of salary increases to civil servants at their own expense, so that they can be free from the salary base. There, at the committee meeting, I also said that this type of hijacking has already been possible. Why didn't the municipalities use this widely? That's because they don't have their own income to raise it. To be precise, of course, obviously there is, I would add, only that own income has its place or its place elsewhere. Rather, it is spent on necessary and irresistible improvements than on raising salaries for their own employees, which is obviously a mistake, or it can be said that there is another way to decide. But I cannot condemn the leaders of the settlements who say that they are making positive decisions for the general public rather than trying to help their own employees in one way or another. The fact that the government now provides such an additional opportunity to hijack the salary base will no longer help these rather difficult public servants. I used to say that just because we call them public servants, we shouldn't keep them in a merchandising line. So this amendment, which you have tabled, will mean nothing. Why not? Not even to get to the next point, which is a big problem for KLIK funding. It was also said at the committee meeting that the amount originally planned to finance the CLIK was quite debatable in this year's revised budget and in the next year's budget. But even when you presented the original bill, Secretary of State Palkovics denied that, by the way, they would pull me off the municipal budget or withdraw me to finance the KLIK. Thus, the State would not have thought, by including the operation, that this would have been covered by the municipalities, at least initially. But the last-minute austerity package, this particular 50 billion-dollar austerity package, is exactly what it is about. So the Secretary of State Palkovics was able to lie quickly enough to his own government. What this $50 billion austerity package means, I would like to quote the letter from the mayor of Hévíz. He describes in detail what this 50 billion mark-up there means in that settlement, according to their own calculations. So this new tax, this certain solidarity contribution tax, of which the government would expect to collect 21 billion, represents 155 million HUF withdrawal in the city of Hévíz. By the way, an additional HUF 116 million is already lost in the credit system. But depending on the possibility of a change in the pay-off system, that could mean another 20-40 million. The fact that the government adds less money in addition to the income of the tourist tax is not HUF 1.55, but only HUF 1 and 255 million minus in the case of Hévíz. For their financial management tasks, 15 million are expected to be lost. So, overall, about HUF 455 million in the life of a city of about 5 thousand. So this is what this EUR 50 billion austerity package means in the life of a settlement, translated into Hungarian. This and the way in which you have tabled this amendment, we reject it because it is now a very long-established tactic on the part of the Fidesz government, that substantial changes that require fundamental changes are being tabled at the last moment, when there is virtually no debate about it, and it is certainly not possible for anyone to make further amendments to the amending budget to this effect, so when, in fact, the possibility of substantive debate is actually withdrawn from the opposition. We therefore reject this in any case. And here I must add, in addition, that this will also reduce their own revenue to the municipalities. Your own income, which you would otherwise be looking to divert from the civil servant's salary to the municipalities. This is a self-contradiction of government policy, which I believe is more about cynicism. Not to mention, if I can still say a half sentence about hijacking, this was also mentioned at the committee meeting that mayors, as we know, are being paid in connection with the civil servant's salary. This could also mean extraordinary wage tensions in a settlement, as the full-time mayor is Kttv. He's getting his paycheck. Is it possible, then, that there will be an office where mayors' salaries will be calculated on the basis of a lower basic salary, while an employee's salary will be calculated on the basis of a larger basic salary? I don't think this is a good and fair solution. There's one more thing I'd like to say very quickly. This is that everywhere we tried to criticize the government's policy of supporting visual investment without counting, with billions of forints. Let me make one thing a parallel. My fellow Member, the current President, has tabled about 300 amendments that would not, overall, require as much resources as the HUF 35 billion for the City Park next year. However, these 300 amendments represent essential improvements in the lives of a small municipality. So see, Mr. Secretary, that's the problem, there are differences of this magnitude. While with one hand, the government treats taxpayers' money extremely irresponsiblely and in our view for certain prestigious investments, it is extremely small-handed to smaller municipalities. Unfortunately, all 300 amendments were rejected. We therefore ask the Secretary of State and the Government to review this. Thank you so much for listening. [[It's a rare applause in the ranks of the Jobbik.]]
u2016-06-06-320	I now give the floor to Congresswoman Erzsébet Schmuck.
u2016-06-06-321	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, We see that the biggest problem with the 2017 budget is that it is pouring into concrete the failed economic policy that has made Hungary the assembly plant of foreign multi-company companies. The impact of budgets in recent years has been disappointing. More than 40 percent of Hungarians live below the minimum living age, which in 2015 represented 41.5 percent of the population. Two million taxpayers earn below the minimum living, and more than 300 thousand of them are those whose work income does not even reach the poverty threshold. Today in Hungary 8 hours of work is too small to make a modest living, 8 hours of work is not enough to keep families from suffering. It's no coincidence that an entire generation is about to decide on emigration. We need an immediate general wage increase. We think that the wage increase today is a real investment in our future. Minister Lazarus has recently promised a wage increase of more than HUF 700 billion for the future, but we do not see any traces of this in the budget. Another consequence of the misguided economic policy is that the Hungarian economy is still unable to stand on its own feet. Hungary suffers from fiscal alcoholism, and almost the only engine of growth is EU funds. This may have been realised by even the pro-government representatives recently, when GDP declined in the first quarter of 2016 as a result of the squandering of EU funds compared to the previous quarter. [[21.10]] And foreign multi-enterprises do well in vain if they take home 80% of their profits, and thus only further strengthen the dual economy. Obviously, the pro-government representatives see this differently, and with goodwill it can be said that this can be because a narrow layer of society and the families of the Fidesz Moonyard are really developing, and a narrow layer of money is really good for them. Someone has taken home the thousands of billions of EU money. The LMP feels it is its duty to show the Hungarian electorate that there is another way, so the party has submitted amendments to the 2017 budget, which constitute the basis of another economic policy, which represents the image of a completely different Hungary, a country where you can live from work, where instead of foreign multi-enterprises, Hungarian SMEs are strategic partners and where the break-off becomes a catch-up. This was done with a responsible reorganization of some HUF 2000 billion; it is responsible for showing fully the resources of the expenditure. This year's communication panel says it's a budget for tax cuts. With a HUF 100 billion reduction in a budget of HUF 17 300 billion, not a tax reduction, half a percentage; partial, little reduction for people who are deprived of the most important basic food tax, a small increase in the distorted child discount. A simple family can increase their income by a few thousand forints, while at the same time the state leaders can increase their income by millions. The government is talking about tax cuts, and today the state is taking half of a worker's total wage cost. One forint for each wage is to be paid into the state register. We, on the other hand, would reduce the burden on work by using multi-key taxes for 90 percent of those living off the job. One of the root causes of the problem is that the government insists on a single-key tax for the rich, which would immediately be converted into a multi-key tax by the LMP, so that the net of the average wage earners can finally grow and the distribution will be fairer. The minimum wage would be tax-free and the income bands would be taxed at 0, 12, 24 percent. This increase in wages is also necessary because more people could be kept at home, labour shortages and employment would be reduced. The wage increase today is the real investment. In addition to the introduction of a multi-key tax, we would also add 200 billion to public sector wage planning. We see and hear that the government is a prisoner of the neoliberal theory that wage increases undermine competitiveness. This is reflected in panels where first the economy needs to be fixed, then wages can be raised, i.e. the increase in wages is considered to be distributed by the government. The economy will not recover if labour productivity is not increased, and it will not increase if it is constantly exploited to the minimum level of living. A vicious circle that needs to be interrupted requires a systematic and continuous increase in wages. The quality of the Hungarian labour force does not differ from Western Europe, so its productivity could be much higher, but it would require resources to regenerate itself - in a nasty word - to enable it to increase its living conditions, health status, motivation and skills. This is not guaranteed by six wages compared to Western Europe. At the same time, we cannot ignore wasteful expenses. In many cases, they no longer take the effort to keep secrets, but they are completely openly, almost proud of their hobbies or realize their dreams at taxpayers' money. We could talk about stadium constructions, the government moving to Castle, and installing the Liget. Another extremely expensive item has to be mentioned in any way: the government plans to spend HUF 100 billion on the Paks expansion next year, while there are still no building permits, this is unacceptable. On this basis, according to the LMP, the budget is not eligible. Thank you for your attention.
u2016-06-06-322	Thank you. I will ask the author, Mr Péter Benő Banai, if he wishes to comment now. [[For signal:]] You don't want to, Mr. Secretary. Here are the speeches by the Members, and I would like to give the floor first to Mr Mihály Witzmann.
u2016-06-06-323	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, We have come to the final debate on next year's budget, and I think that before the legislative proposal is adopted next week, we should also briefly emphasise the most important cornerstones of next year's budget. Indeed, the 2017 budget ensures that, although many of the opposition's ranks here doubted that everyone can take a step forward next year, because the government intends to devote economic growth revenues to families, further tax cuts and the continuation of the home creation programme. We are also pleased to say that the government provides additional resources for all disciplines compared to this year. The family tax relief of two children may continue to increase, the VAT of milk, eggs and poultrymeat will decrease from 27 percent to 5 percent, the career program of teachers, policemen and soldiers will continue, and consultations on the organisation of wages for health workers and social workers will also take place. In view of the fact that the general debate was already held in May, I would like to discuss the main amendments tabled to the bill in the rest of my speech. At its meeting on 31 May, the Committee on Budgets, acting in the role of the TAB, presented a summary amendment. The motion sets out a number of changes, and therefore I would like to highlight only the most important ones in view of the short period of time. I think it is important to stress that the proposal will create a new budget of around HUF 3 billion in support of subsidies for the purchase of fuel for social purposes by local authorities. It will also be possible for municipalities to set, at their own resources, a salary basis other than the centrally valid salary base for municipal civil servants. It is also an important element, according to which the salary base for judges and prosecutors increases by about 5-5 percent in two steps. The resources necessary for the implementation of the salary increase are also covered by the sectoral careers appropriation. For the 78th time, the National Agricultural and Food Exhibition and Fair will be held in 2017 and OMÉK, for the preparation of which additional funds should be provided, the sum of this is approximately HUF 200 million, according to the proposal. The amending proposal also provides the resources needed to expand the system of housing allowances available to certain law enforcement bodies and members of their professional service. In this case, the additional resources amount to some HUF 1815 million. I also think it is important to emphasise that, according to the proposal before us, a budget of about HUF 10 billion will be allocated to cover the development of accommodation next year. The establishment of so-called fitness parks in densely populated urban areas and in panel-house areas and the provision of sports opportunities for the population will be planned for approximately HUF 3 billion in the next year's budget. The investment of the multifunctional youth centre in Szeged, the leisure centre to be built in 2017 requires an increase in previously planned appropriations, the size of which in this case is approximately HUF 1.5 billion. Following the international success of Hungarian films, another amendment came into the bill, which aims to increase film production subsidies by HUF 2.5 billion through Hungarian National Filmlap Zrt. With this amendment, it may also be possible to make Hungarian films with a special design, with a higher cost. Another amendment related to the promotion of culture is the proposal for a surplus of HUF 194 million to ensure the predictable functioning of the Hungarian Theatre of Pesti. The bill also includes the provision of nearly HUF 2 billion in support to the 5 investments of the Reformed Church, in which the Reformed Elementary School and High School of Budafoki, the sub-temple in Klapka tér in Pesterzsébet, can be expanded, but also the works of the Reformed Prayer Hall in Soroksár-Újtelep can be completed. It is also possible to build the Reformed Church in Csömör, and the first stage of the construction of the Reformed Church in Csömör can begin. In addition, it is an important amendment: an additional HUF 1 billion will be available for the renovation of World War I monuments under the proposal. The proposed amendments include the National Theatre Nonprofit Zrt. increase its operating support by approximately HUF 400 million in order to ensure predictable financing. [[21.20]] There is also a change in intention to support the Hungarian small-town pastoral income supplement, which actually amounts to HUF 670 million on the basis of the proposal. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, As I can see from the amendments that I have listed, the Government of Hungary, while strictly and fully respecting budgetary discipline, is responsible, but fully endeavouring to create the necessary resources for socially important and rewarding expenditure. I believe that next year's budget has been well planned and represents stability and predictability for the Hungarian people. That is why I ask you to vote in favour of the adoption of the law on Hungary's central budget for 2017. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-06-06-324	It will now be the voice of the voice invited by the nationality committee. I give the floor to Mr Imre Ritter, a German ethnic advocate. You have the floor, Mr. Speaker.
u2016-06-06-325	Danke schön! Sehr geehrter Herr Vorsitzender! Sehr geehrtes Parliament! Mr President, Dear House, Allow me, on behalf of the Committee on Nationalities in Hungary, to express our position on the parts of the draft law on the central budget for 2017. More than a year and a half ago, at the closure of the 2013 central budget, I started by saying that this first minority Parliamentary contribution should have taken place here in the Hungarian Parliament more than 20 years ago, so that we should eliminate almost two decades of failure in every respect as soon as possible. Then, for a long time, it was possible and had to be classified, for decades, what an unworthy state nationalities in Hungary had been forced to live and operate. At the same time, there have been positive changes of hope. On the one hand, the most important and positive change in 2013 from a nationality point of view was, without doubt, the fact that the support for the national minority public education institutions maintained by the national authorities increased significantly and became normative. On the other hand, with the 2014 parliamentary elections, Parliament's representation has been granted to 13 Hungarian nationalities, which has never been, and has opened up new opportunities for us. The first serious result of the parliamentary representation was that we were able to achieve a breakthrough in the 2015 Central Budget Act by increasing the minority support of less than HUF 4 billion by a total of HUF 2 billion and more than 50 percent for many years. Less than half a year later, the 13 nationalities living in Hungary received a significant HUF 2 billion HUF 63.4 million increase again in the 2016 Central Budget Act. With today's summarised amendments, we ask you to accept an increase of HUF 400 million in the 2016 Central Budget Act and HUF 678.1 million in the 2017 Central Budget Proposal, i.e. HUF 1 billion 78.1 million in total. In addition to all this, we believe that this is a moment of great joy, long-awaited, significant changes, when all the problems, tasks and tensions that still exist must be thanked without reservation. As a combined effect of the three years, the minority support of less than HUF 4 billion will increase to more than HUF 9.1 billion, thus achieving substantial improvements in almost all ethnic areas. It can be said without exaggeration that this is a positive change on a scale that has not been seen in the past hundred years in relation to nationalities living in Hungary in current Hungarian politics. Let me quote the words of Zoltán Schmidt, a prominent German resident of Baranya County, who, when he learned during our telephone conversation that I was preparing for my speech in Parliament, said: "Du muss es unbedingt an Ihnen bedanken! Make sure you thank them. In Branau, Baranya, everyone says that either through ethnic NGOs or through the local or national minority self-government, or through individual ethnic supplemental support, or through investment, renovation, tender, or through the support of ethnic institutions, but somewhere everyone feels that at national level it has finally moved in merit, it makes sense to do and work. That's why I'm saying, "Please thank them." He said, "I'm sorry," he said, "I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry." Well, ladies and gentlemen, I am ready to comply with this call. On behalf of Zoltán Schmidt of Baranya and our fellow ethnicity of hundreds of thousands of Hungarian citizens belonging to the 13 nationalities living in Hungary, I am pleased to thank you for this. On this basis, on behalf of the Committee on Nationalities in Hungary, I would like to ask you to support, like the last two years, the proposal to amend the nationalities living in Hungary in a uniform manner, and to ask for the kindly adoption of the amended central budget bill for 2017. Thank you for listening. Danke für Ihre Aufmerksamkeit! [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-06-06-326	I now give the floor to Congressman László Szakács.
u2016-06-06-327	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen of the State Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, After so many words of praise, unfortunately, I must break the line, we will have a critical edge, and I myself will have a critical edge. [[Interviews in the ranks of Fidesz.]] But we have to, because we believe in something else. That's why we have to say that everyone can take a step forward, but let's face it, not everyone can move forward the same way, some people can make a few thousand forints a month, and some people can make a few hundred forints a month. They say the VAT on milk, eggs and poultrymeat will be reduced. Not the milk you can get at the store, so that milk won't lose its tax. This is, by the way, not a problem of the budget, but a problem of channelling lobbying interests, but I really think that this should be solved by you. I wrote to myself in the debate a few words that, let's say, motivates us to think about whether we are talking about the same country: a vibrant real estate market, housing building in rapid stages, favourable labour market trends. And let's stop at these three. About building an apartment. I have said earlier in the debate - and this is also linked, of course, to positive trends in the labour market - and I believe that this is exactly what the budget's value choices should focus on. On a fiscal basis, using monetary and fiscal policy as an engine in the budget - this will die out later, in which all experts agree - they have put the budget on a path where they can otherwise hold the amount of the budget deficit in an infinitely commendable way, at least in proportion to GDP. But here's where we asked, "Why?" To whom? After all, the positive trends in the labour market are not as you show in the statistics, and I remember when I said in the debate that there are no professionals in Hungary, our professionals no longer work in Hungary, and therefore you do nothing. The Secretary of State responded by saying how commendable and good the situation is that there is a shortage of labour markets in Hungary today. I also remember thinking about it at the time, but I didn't say out loud that Jesus, Mary, wasn't it! It is not because of the excellent economic activity in Hungary, because of the constant development and because of the constant need of foreign and stronger companies in Hungary, let us say, neither the Hungarian vocational training nor the Hungarian population can satisfy the labour market demand they claim. It's not that! Ladies and gentlemen, The issue is that Hungarian workers go from Austria to England to Western European countries in the hope of a better life, because the minimum wage there is a multiple of what they can earn in Hungary today. [[21.30]] If Mr. Secretary of State asks, say, car manufacturers, which are the engines and stable foundations of the Hungarian economy, whether or not Mercedes, Suzuki, Opel can employ as many people, whether they can meet as many orders as they wish, or just as they have been contracted, because there are as many professionals in Hungary today, then they will say they can't. Today's news is that in the commercial sector, freedom cannot be granted, because otherwise there will be no people in the shops who fill the shelves or even who can be paid for what we have purchased in the register. Freedoms cannot be granted because there won't be so many people, there won't be so many people in the labour market. I think that this is a lot of things, but not a positive trend in the labour market. In terms of emigration and wage situation, a direct parallel must be drawn. People leave in hopes of a better life abroad to find their calculations, earn more, and, unfortunately, then stay there. About 500 thousand of our countrymen have chosen this, and if we are talking about housing and the vibrant real estate market, I can also say, Mr Secretary of State, that it takes 21 professions to build homes in Hungary today, of which 17 are missing today. This is not because so many new properties would be built in Hungary, no, they cannot build that little with Hungarians. The champagne real estate market - never tell anyone in South Hungary, be nice. The vibrant real estate market in cities where 30 ten-story ten-story apartments live in three, and the rest happens, because others, in the hope of a better life, went from there and turned the key on the door, they couldn't move forward, they left here and probably didn't want to return. I think that every pro-government speaker can raisin out of these many items from 3 billion to 200 million forints that we have heard from my fellow Member, Witzmann, can hold quite good production meetings, but I think we should look at processes here. The processes are that the country is no longer divided into two parts, but in three or four liveable cities: Győröt, Budapest, Kecskemét, Debrecen, there are processes that you are talking about, but the majority of the country does not live here. The larger part of the country lives where two buses go on weekends, where health services are unattainable, where children are difficult to get to school because they do not know where else to take children to school, where there is unpredictable administration, where there are situations where unfortunately there is no longer any way to trust that if they go into an office, they will solve their problems there. If budgetary discipline is of primary importance in such a country, then I believe that neither the budget nor the governing party reflects on the social problems that I believe a governing party should have: emigration, public confidence, a viable country, and a vibrant and calm society. We can't talk about these in Hungary today, we can talk about a broken-down countryside, broken-down public services, depopulated villages, and we can talk about a situation without public confidence, which is what we should respond to in a budget, not a deficit target. Lajos Kósa, when we were on the government, kept saying that the deficit target is neither a national instrument nor a nation's goal that must be achieved. Well, it looks like it is, because it's all you have left, and the rest you can't handle, that's what I see. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2016-06-06-328	I now give the floor to Congressman Mihály Witzmann.
u2016-06-06-329	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. As my fellow Member Szakács spoke to me, we can continue our debate on the situation of the Hungarian budget and the Hungarian economy here in Parliament after the Committee on Budgets. To the question or to the quote whether we live in the same country, I often think about it, too, when I hear socialist arguments, honourable Members, because it seems often that we do not live in the same country. If we look at the evolution of macroeconomic indicators, let us say, in terms of the general government deficit, then I think that precisely the socialists should be more moderate and more modest, because they were the ones that led the European Union to initiate infringement proceedings against us, and in no year has it been possible, my dear fellow Member, to keep the deficit target below 3 per cent. Since 2010, this government, the Fidesz-KDNP government, has succeeded every year. Then, if we look at employment as a very important macroeconomic indicator, I know that this is what's bothering the socialists, but let's go through all this. Employment has increased from 3.7 million to more than 4.2 million. [[Dr. László Kács: A thousand people mow the lawn here!]] I am glad that they are also happy in the benches of the socialists, but you will also remember that unemployment was close to 12 percent at the time of their governance. That's about 5.8-9 percent. So I think that numbers are really stubborn things that are not worth arguing with very much. After that, if we look at the development of public debt, which the Member referred to a great deal, in 2002, when the Orbán government handed over the baton to socialist governments, then, if I remember correctly, 52 percent of the government debt-to-GDP ratio, you managed to get it up to 83-84 percent after eight years of governance. Then we can see that this is also a downward trend and that the government is forecasting 73-74 percent by 2017, or perhaps even less. If we look at inflation, I think again that there is nothing to talk about, because there is record low inflation in Hungary for years now, so inflation is virtually around zero percent. In the case of economic growth, I once again think that even if, on the basis of the figures of recent months, they often say that the economy is slow in Hungary, I think that the balance of this is still positive, whereas, for example, if I remember correctly, during the Gyurcsány-Bajnai governments, the expansion of the economy was minus 7 percent. If we buy two percent or three, but take only two, it's exactly nine percent bigger than it was in the socialist governments' time. I think we should be happy about that. And, yes, are we satisfied with it? I think that we are not satisfied with it, we all want this economic expansion to be even greater, but, again, the difference is significant compared to negative 7 percent. If I add the rest of the data without the need for completeness, retail sales in Hungary have been increasing steadily for 30 to a few months, industrial production is expanding, exports are expanding. So I think that both in the current account and in the external trade account, the country is clearly performing better than it did in the past. And what it means specifically for everyone to take a step forward, I would like to translate this into my own constituency, so that we can stand on the ground of concrete numbers and concrete facts in this respect. The reduction of personal income tax from 16 per cent to 15 per cent, the reduction of 1 per cent in the Somogy 4 constituency means HUF 1.1 billion annually to the taxpayers there, which can leave HUF 350 million in Siófok, the seat of the constituency, in the pocket of the taxpayers of Siófok. It also leaves hundreds of millions of forints in the area to reduce the VAT on the eggs, poultry and milk mentioned above. I think it is important to mention only as an example, I did not have time to note this here, so I will tell you from my computer that in our constituency of Somogy 4 it is actually 134 million HUF/year for families with two children, in this case the effect of the VAT reduction, in the case of families with two children in Siófok, will result in savings of about 40 million HUF/year. The reduction of VAT on the Internet means a reduction of HUF 45-50 million in Siófok alone, even if it is so amusing for my fellow Member Belló, if he would be there more often, although he has been visiting us a lot lately, I am very happy that we may be able to find him without GPS. [[Dr. László Kács: Why is it personal?]] So this HUF 45-50 million, I think, is not negligible. This allows savings of 140 million forints in the region. So I think that if you look at family tax incentives, also broken down into regions, the increase in tax relief can be expected for families with two children living in my constituency to receive an additional annual income of about HUF 100 million, and for families with two children in Siófok this means an extra income of nearly HUF 30 million. [[21.40]] So if we are talking about whether this is progress for the poor or for the rich, at all, if we are talking about what you often question whether this is actually progress, then I think that these figures clearly prove that they are. I wish they had done this in the period 2002-2010. Unfortunately, it wasn't. Thank you very much. [[It's a rare round of applause from the pro-government ranks.]]
u2016-06-06-330	I will ask my fellow Members if anyone would like to comment on the debate. [[For application:]] But I see a candidate, yes. Congressman László Cook has the floor.
u2016-06-06-331	Thank you very much, Mr. President. All I wanted to say is, maybe there's a fifth viable city, I don't know. But, you know, my honourable fellow Member, where we come from, from South Hungary, where there is not enough tourism to, say, support a whole city or its entire environment, they save much less on the Internet, save much less on daily shopping. Sometimes we even joke there that Sunday's lock is very interesting, because people don't really go to shops on weekdays anymore, let alone on Sundays. Employment growth is true. In our city, Komlón, when it was socialist government, it was very difficult to find 160 public workers when we submitted such a tender. Today it is 1067 that the city's population has fallen by 8000. This has reduced their prospects, employment opportunities, and opportunities for these people to stay there, even though it is only 100 kilometers away from Siófok. Thank you for your attention. [[István Gábor Bellozó applauds.]]
u2016-06-06-332	I ask my fellow Members if anyone else would like to comment. [[No signal.]] I do not see a candidate, so the debate is closed. I give the floor to Secretary of State Péter Banai Benő.
u2016-06-06-333	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Allow me, first of all, to thank you for the thorough work you have done to adopt the draft law on the central budget for 2017. With regard to the content of the budget, I must quote the expose of the bill. When drawing up Hungary's budget for next year, the most important aspect of the government was, and this was said in the exposé to provide security and progress for families, while at the same time supporting balanced economic growth, improving competitiveness, further reducing public debt while keeping the government deficit below 3% of GDP. There is an interesting debate here from the point of view of the deficit. I thought that there was a contradiction in Mr Cook's speech, because he criticized the high level of the structural balance at the same time, and then said that it should not respond to the deficit target. I believe that the structural balance of next year's budget in this respect raises a question, so to speak: is it appropriate to keep the structural balance at 1.7 per cent or 1.5 per cent compared to 2.1 per cent calculated by the government? I repeat, I think that this is a good debate, especially in the light of the fact that we remember budgets in Hungary from your previous restaurant when the absolute deficit was around 9%; or this debate can be accepted at international level when, for example, France's budget deficit next year is projected by the European Commission to be more than 3%. As regards the fiscal engines mentioned by the Member, and the budgetary drive of growth and employment, so to speak, we must see that, in the last decade, when the budget deficit was very high, the number of employees did not increase, stagnant, and in this situation not only did we see no real progress in the number of people employed, but there has not been much real convergence either. From this point of view, the process of the past years and the 2017 budget do prove that growth is not due to the declining deficit, but that growth is not due to the sudden finding of EU funds, which would not have been available to Hungary since 2004, and the significant increase in employment is not due to the government's extra budgetary resources being pumped into the economy from one year to the next. Of course, fiscal policy also has a substantial impact on the development of employees, but if we look at an ageing age, then we can see that, yes, steps independent of the budget or budget-related, but not direct, budget support measures have resulted in a significant increase in the number of employees and, yes, we are now faced with a positive problem, so to speak, in many sectors and in many regions, that in many cases, there is a shortage of skilled workers. The next year's budget will also address these problems by strengthening the vocational training system and providing additional resources. The aim of all this is to ensure that skilled workers are available. The 2017 budget bill therefore considers the strengthening of families, the reduction of their tax burden, the creation of homes and, not least, economic development to be the most important objective. Accordingly, I consider the following points to be highlighted from the bill. As has been said, from 1 January 2017 VAT on fresh milk, poultry, eggs will be reduced to 5 per cent of the most important foods, continuing to reduce VAT on pigmeat already in 2016. Here, I have to highlight the issue of pensioners in particular, because while preserving the real value of pensions, it is important to know that basic food in the consumer basket of pensioners represents a greater share of basic food than in the consumer basket of an average family. Thus, when assessing the value of pensions, we must not forget that these products represent a significant weight in the said consumer basket. In addition, the VAT on restaurant services and VAT on internet access are also reduced among the public's tax burdens. Next year, HUF 211 billion serves the largest home creation programme in recent decades, which not only stimulates economic growth, but also contributes to halting and reversing negative demographic developments and keeping skilled workers at home in the longer term. I note only in parentheses that I hope that this home creation programme will also contribute to the decision to return to Hungary from abroad. I think that a very important support for everyone is the said home creation programme. The key to her daughter remains 15 percent. Here I would respond to the suggestions that his regime is unfair. I think that it is a proportionate tax rate, which says that it is worth more work, because the extra income will not be withdrawn by a progressive key; it is worth having a child, because all those who work and raise children can have a substantial tax reduction, the amount of which will continue to increase for two children. This tax system can be criticised, but this tax system has also played an important role in talking about the growth of the economy and the higher level of employment at historical level. Education was a lot of talk. Next year's budget proposal envisages additional resources in both public education and higher education. The armed and law enforcement career model continues. The career model of state officials continues with wage increases not only in districts but also in county government offices. The National Tax and Customs Office has also started a new three-step career. They also benefit from wage development in the healthcare, social and cultural sectors. I cannot agree with her, and on the basis of the figures, I must deny the suggestion made by Mrs Schmuck, Mrs Erzsébet, that economic policy is aimed at keeping wages low. Both in 2015 and on the basis of the expected figures for 2016 and in 2017 we see that real wages at national level are increasing significantly above economic growth, i.e. the positive effects of economic growth can be perceived not only by employees as a percentage of growth but to a greater extent. Overall, next year's budget will provide additional resources for all disciplines. In addition to EU funds, the government intends to spend some HUF 1600 billion exclusively from domestic sources to finance a number of developments. Within these developments, I have to say for the critical Városliget programme that a complex, new investment can be made, with new museums, a modern demonstration complex designed for the former Amusement Park and the creation of a world-class, complex, family-friendly cultural leisure park. In addition, the main building of the Museum of Applied Arts and the Hungarian State Opera House can be renewed in Budapest. [[21.50]] I think that this can play a role in strengthening domestic tourism, many choose domestic destinations along with going abroad. In this respect, this could also aim at boosting the economy and increasing employment. Dear Parliament, The original proposal, as has been said in the debate, has been amended on a number of points. Allow me to refer to a lot within this. In particular, with a surplus of more than HUF 170 billion originally proposed by the government in terms of public education tasks, in line with the planned amendment of the Public Education Act, HUF 55 billion will be transferred from local authorities to the public educational institution system. I must stress that the task is changing, and it is appropriate to amend the funding in parallel. There was a concrete suggestion in the debate regarding the city of Hévíz. I would like to point out to the notary that, I repeat, the change of tasks involves the movement of money, and if the city of Hévíz is affected by this solidarity contribution, it means that the city of Hévíz has a high tax power, i.e. its capacity to bear the burden, allows it to contribute to the change in the state's task system in the light of its resources. It was said that many areas could benefit from additional resources during the parliamentary debate. I believe that these additional resources can be realised with the availability of additional funding. Thus, next year's budget bill could mean a step forward for all families by reducing public debt and sound public finances. In view of this, I propose to the Parliament that the bill be submitted. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-06-06-334	Dear Parliament, The decision on the summary amendment proposal is expected to take place on tomorrow's meeting. We now have the Commission's reports on the amendment of energy legislation for harmonisation purposes and the discussion of the summarised amendment proposal. Government referral T/10523. The Commission's non-autonomous texts are available on the parliamentary IT network. I declare that the presentation will be discussed as an EU item on the agenda by the Parliament. The debate will be the first to present the position of the Legislative Committee within a 15-minute time frame. I give the floor to Sándor Hadházy, rapporteur of the committee.
u2016-06-06-335	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, I hereby inform the Honourable Parliament that T/10523 was discussed by the Legislative Committee on 26 May 2016. The bill amending the Energy Law No 34 for harmonisation purposes and the committee presented a proposal for amendment and a summary report with 34 votes in favour, i.e. a unanimous decision. As you know, the European Commission has launched infringement proceedings against Hungary in the context of the transposition of the third energy package of the European Union, so the proposal aims to implement the necessary legislative amendments. I can tell you that there was no professional debate at the committee meeting on the bill. The summarised amendment includes the 13-point technical proposal of the Economic Committee and the clarification of the Legislative Committee. Ladies and gentlemen, Please support the motion. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-06-06-336	I will ask the Secretary of State, Mr András Aradszki, if you would like to comment now. [[For signal:]] He doesn't want to. The designated Economic Committee did not draft a rapporteur, so now there would be speeches from its representatives if there were, but I do not see them. So I'm gonna ask if anyone wants to comment. [[No one's reporting.]] I don't see that. So I will close the debate and ask Mr Secretary of State again if he wishes to comment. [[For signal:]] You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2016-06-06-337	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Honourable Members, It is true that this bill contains rules on the harmonisation of laws on energy, and I only asked for the floor to thank you for the support we received from the factions on the adoption of the bill. I would particularly like to draw attention to the fact that the amendment of the Act on the status of the Hungarian Office for Energy and Public Works is also included in this proposal, and these provisions are fundamental. That is why I ask that the factions confirm with their vote tomorrow that they have expressed their intention to support the two-thirds stages of the adoption of the bill. I believe that this is once again a serious step forward to ensure that the adaptation of the third energy package is properly implemented in Hungary, thus serving its legitimate functioning, the even more legitimate functioning of the Hungarian energy supply, energy security and the security of the supply of the population. So thank you for your support so far, and I would ask you to support the bill tomorrow. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-06-06-338	Dear Parliament, The decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting. Next up is the 2011 CXCVI on national assets. The Commission's reports on the amendment of the Act and the debate on the draft amendment. Government referral T-10718. The Commission's non-autonomous texts are available on the parliamentary IT network. First, the position of the Legislative Committee will be presented in the debate. I give the floor to Imre Vas, rapporteur of the committee.
u2016-06-06-339	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, I inform the Parliament that the Legislative Committee discussed the 2011 CXCVI on national assets on 2 June 2016. T/10718. The Committee submitted a proposal for amendment and a summary report with 26 votes in favour and 2 non-votes. The summarised amendment contains the Economic Committee's two-point amendment proposal. In view of the fact that the purchase by the Hungarian State of the Váli Ürményi-castle and the real estate which constitutes it will be owned by the State and that this historic property is included in the national castle programme, it is justified to add this property to the Annex to the Act. Due to the expected date of registration of public ownership in the real estate register, it is also appropriate to amend the entry into force provision. The amending proposal also proposes adding new lines to the table set out in Annex I (1) to the bill under the title of Csongrád county. The Monument-Protected Class I Grand Wizard and the II. The most important, exclusively state-owned monuments of Csongrád county are the most important castles in the Debrecen county, which are worthy of tourism and cultural exploitation, as well as the renovation of the monument. In order to ensure an EU resource for the locations of the national castle programme and the national fortress programme agreed by the government, it is necessary to adopt or supplement the national property bill as set out above. In view of what has also been said at the five-party consultation, I would also ask my fellow opposition Members to support the adoption of the fundamental bill. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-06-06-340	I'll ask the author if he'd like to comment. [[For signal:]] Mr. Secretary Major has the floor.
u2016-06-06-341	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, The main objective of the bill before you, as the Commission rapporteur pointed out, is to complement national monuments and monuments, which are of national importance for the national economy, with the inclusion of the national castle programme adopted by the government and the sites of the national castle programme which are not currently included in the monuments of national importance. [[22.00]] The bill also contains text points, and in the annex, we delete the components of the building ensembles, as defined by the cultivation arm, whose detailed details are not relevant, which we have done and do on the basis of Parliament's debate. On the basis of the Commission's proposal for amendment, the annex to the bill is supplemented by the Károlyi Castles in Nagymagocs and derekegyháza, one of the most important state-owned monuments of Csongrád county, and the Váli Ürményi Castle. The amending proposal is a national interest in keeping the castles concerned within national property, their worthy tourism and cultural exploitation, as well as the renovation of monuments. The Váli Ürményi-kastély ensemble, in view of its involvement in the national castle programme, will soon be owned by the state, and I therefore support the proposal of my rapporteur from the Commission to amend the provisions on entry into force due to the expected date and time needed for the registration of state ownership in the real estate register. To conclude the debate on the bill, thank you for the active involvement of my fellow Members in the debate, the Economic Commission and the Legislative Committee. Dear Parliament, On this basis, I ask the Parliament to support the summarised amendment proposal and the bill. Thank you, Mr President, for the opportunity. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-06-06-342	The designated Economic Committee has not presented a rapporteur, so we now have representatives' contributions. I give the floor to Congressman Gyula Vantara and say good-bye to you for now.
u2016-06-06-343	Thank you for the floor, Mr President, and I wish you a good rest. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, The 2011 CXCVI on national assets. The general debate of the bill amending the law was held by the House on 24 May this year, and it was very positive that basically all groups supported the motion. It is also an amending proposal, as has been said by previous speakers, from a total of one of my fellow Members, Mr Attila Szabolcs, who asked for the date of entry into force to be determined on 1 July, as well as a number of language and text-focusing proposals. [[Sándor Lezsák, vice-president of the Parliament takes the chair.]] At the meeting of the Economic Committee on 31 October V, he lived with a view to further modification and, as has been said, extended the scope of the monuments listed in Annex 1 as national assets with two additional real estates. As I said in the general debate, it is very important that the national castle programme and the national castle programme progress smoothly, and this will be possible to draw on the GINOP funds by adopting the bill. Ladies and gentlemen, I hope that all my fellow Members will support this bill for a noble purpose tomorrow. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-06-06-344	Thank you, Congressman Vantara. I salute my fellow Members. I will ask if anyone else wishes to make use of the opportunity to speak in the remaining time frame. [[No one's reporting.]] I don't see any contact. Dear Parliament, The debate is closed and I give the floor to Mr János Fónagy, State Secretary, if you wish to make use of it. [[Dr. János Fónagy: Thank you, Mr. President, I do not wish to.]] No, thank you very much, Secretary of State. Dear Parliament, The decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting. Next up is the XXXIII of 2015 on the development of facilities for the implementation of the World Swimming, Waterball, Jumping, Swimming and Open Water Championships in Budapest. The Commission's reports on the amendment of the Act and the debate on the draft amendment. By the representatives of Lajos Kósa, Erik Bánki and Sándor Hadházy Fidesz, T/10535. The submission submitted and the Commission's non-individual documents received are available on the Parliament's IT network. Dear Parliament, The debate will be the first to present the position of the Legislative Committee within a 15-minute time frame, so I will give the floor to Sándor Hadházy, the rapporteur of the committee.
u2016-06-06-345	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, I hereby inform the Parliament that on 26 May 2016 the Legislative Committee discussed the XXXIII of 2015 on the development of the water world facility in Budapest. T/10535. The Committee presented a report and a summary of 25 yes, 4 no and 4 abstentions. The summarised amendment contains a four-point proposal from the Economic Committee. According to the current state of planning, the location number of the properties set out in Annex 1 to the bill has been reviewed and the amendment proposes to delete or clarify them. The new table sets out the owner, current function and role of the property in the investment of the properties listed in Annex 1. I would like to stress that at the five-party conciliation, five-party-four-party negotiations, Commissioner Balázs Fürjes offered to inform the factions of both the investments linked to the World Water Championship and the Olympic tender. I believe that, at committee meetings, my fellow Members could have received duly substantiated answers to the questions raised. I therefore ask with respect that you support this proposal. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-06-06-346	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I will ask if you wish to speak on behalf of the authors, Congressman Hadházy. [[On the signal of Sándor Hadházy:]] He doesn't want to. I'll ask if anyone on the government's side wants to speak. [[Dr. János Fónagy: Thank you very much, no.]] The Secretary of State says no. No rapporteur was drawn up by the designated Economic Committee. It is now up to Members to take part in the time-frames on the agenda. There is no possibility of a two-minute comment during the debate. First, I give the floor to Congressman György Szilágyi, Jobbik.
u2016-06-06-347	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. The World Water Championship in Budapest has been supported by Jobbik Hungary Movement and will be supported as long as possible. I would like to note that there has been no four-party or five-party agreement on this legislative proposal, and there has been no discussion on this amendment at the moment, since this was submitted to this House without prior consultation. That is exactly what we have objected to, and we have actually objected to the fact that we believe that this law was not properly prepared and that it was not properly communicated. That is why I also spoke in the general debate, and then there was a rather ember debate at the Legislative Committee, where the representatives of the Jobbik Hungary Movement voted against this law. But we think that the World Water Championship is such an important event, that it is so important, not only in relation to the water World Championship, but also in relation to the Olympics, because we are treating these two, these two projects together, we think that they are running together and together, it is so important that our vote as a signal will be one abstention, but I would nevertheless like to express that we continue to support the World Water Championship, we continue to support the organisation of the water World Championship. One thing is certain, and it must be acknowledged, and here at the next item, I will say that there are people in the environment of the people entrusted by the government who are truly constructive about these two world events. [[22.10]] Such is, by the way, Government Commissioner Balázs Fürjes, who is really trying to inform the parties, regardless of whether they are opposition parties otherwise or government parties, he is trying to answer all the questions. Although everyone would agree on this issue, we could have completely different debates, absolutely constructive debates. So the end of one word is a hundred, the Movement for Jobbik Hungary will remain with this law, but it will continue to support the World Water Championship until we find elements in it that would refer to corruption or anything else. I hope that there will be no such elements, and that we can support this project until the World Water Championship is organized, until 2017. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2016-06-06-348	Thank you, Congressman. I give the floor to Congressman István Ikotity LMP.
u2016-06-06-349	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, It would be good if we could talk about Hungary's ability to organise such a world competition in a way that does not go beyond its power and in a transparent way, but from the moment our country was given the opportunity to organize this 2017 water world championship, the government machinery was in motion, and the organization became increasingly foggy so that it could benefit as much as possible some well-known big businessmen and oligarchs near the government. The history of the World Swimming, Waterball, Diving, Studio Swimming and Open Water Championships in Budapest shows the operation of the Orbán system from the first day of the winning competition until today, each step serves public money hyenas that are captured with premeditated intent. This is an example of institutionalized corruption. Parliament discusses the legislative proposals for the water world in a series, the majority of governments exempts from warranty rules in a series, and they are slowly making exceptions to the exception. It is now quite clear that the World Championship is not about sport, it is about fighting on a level playing field, but about ensuring the government's dominant position in an investment that will cause permanent damage to the country. The LMP won't assist. Thank you.
u2016-06-06-350	Thank you very much, Congressman. I give the floor to Congressman György Szilágyi.
u2016-06-06-351	Thank you very much. I didn't intend to comment again, but the reason I have to answer István Ikotity's speech is because he is accusing us of what he said, and we are in favour of the World Water Championship. We didn't find any basis, by the way, for the preparations you've made so far, that would give us a reason for what you've said here. Secondly, what I do not agree with, and I absolutely disagree: not only will such a world competition be at the expense of Hungary, but it can bring a great deal of benefits both infrastructural development and sports development, and let us not forget that it can also make a very big contribution to the possibility of winning the 2024 Olympic competition. In addition, this World Water Championship, if you look at the plans for this and look at the possibilities of this, will also carry out linked investments such as the ongoing renovation of the Komyadi swimming pool for 30 years, such as the conditions, that if it changes, it will be a huge opportunity. So I would like to ask you to talk more carefully about this world competition, let us look at it more carefully. I am completely open to the fact that if you have any information on the part of the government or on the part of the execution that you have discovered any corruption, then, please tell us, I will gladly examine it, and if you are right, I will also give you the truth. But only by saying that, in fact, how the Hungarian economy has worked in the last six years... - we asked for in the five-party negotiations, both here and in the Olympics, that there should be two events, there will be two projects that we will do without really bad practice, which has been typical in the last six years, which has been typical for both the Fidesz and the MSZP governments in the last twenty-six years, that friends, relatives and even kissers are in a situation. One thing is certain: when an investment is being made, there must be a contractor. In all likelihood, this contractor will benefit from this construction. This is not the case, it is a question of whether this construction is carried out at a normal price, whether there is an overpriced price in the implementation of the project, and whether, where appropriate, the plans that will be implemented are intended for later purposes. Once again, we have not yet found any reason not to support the World Water Championship, if LMP has such information or any data that it can provide to us, we thank you for that, because we are open to all information related to the water world. Thank you so much for listening. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2016-06-06-352	Thank you, Congressman. I give the floor to Congressman István Ikotity, LMP.
u2016-06-06-353	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. In response to Mr Szilágyi's reaction, I see that there is obviously no suspicion of your direct corruption here either, which we could talk about, and on which we should press charges, because practically the laws are constantly adapted to ensure that the implementation and everything else is carried out properly. It came before Parliament about a year ago, didn't it? - more, this proposal, when it was adopted, has been before Parliament several times since then. It came in with a number of mistakes, I don't know what proportion it was, and in the last detailed debate, we heard a number of properties that were included, for example. If the opposition hadn't been vigilant, these properties might have stayed inside. I trust that this has passed on the opposition's activity, that there has been a reduction in the potential for corruption. But for example, what was submitted was a number of elements that, if it had been accepted, would have caused serious damage to the property that was present there at that time. The congressman claims that this is virtually the forerunner and similar to the Olympics. Yes, and that is exactly our problem, because with the Olympics, it is true that it is an order of magnitude or perhaps two order of magnitude, but we see the same problems: it is not organised in a transparent way, because if laws have to be amended so often in order to create the technical conditions of such a huge event, then the country is not clearly mature, because if things happen in its natural bed, there is no need for such a thing, there is no need for rushing, because there is obviously a mistake, and indeed public funds are disappearing in the course of such haste and frivolity, and it can easily be done not by accident, but by premeditated intention. We think that even the way in which the need for resources is constantly increasing over the past period and every single time, as this is the nature of things, because the same will happen in the Olympics, and then we will have to do with the fact that it will not be nearly as big a sum as it will be, but the multiple of it, that is also the case here. Obviously, it can be argued that related investments, since metro renovation everything has come up here. I myself am obsessed and in love with water sports, but I think that under such circumstances, in such a way, it is in no way pure and in no way correct, which is what is being made here, and that is why I say from my personal conviction that it is not eligible in this form. Thank you.
u2016-06-06-354	Thank you very much, Congressman. I give the floor to Congressman Dezső, MSZP.
u2016-06-06-355	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I think it's worth reviewing a lot of things in your history, maybe this too. Somehow, it started out as if someone had decided to take it. Then he came to Parliament later, but even when it was decided. This has already come to be a national matter, and let us try to get behind it, and what an opportunity it is for the country to have this event. If that's the way it is, maybe it would have been better to bring it here first, to discuss it here, and then take on this event. We all know that this was not the case, and it was the other way round: the Prime Minister took it in, and then brought it to the National Assembly to say what a great opportunity it was. In spite of all of this, my party and I have understood that it is indeed a great opportunity, it can indeed be a national matter, and if they do this in a fair way, then it can be an effective and well-organized event. [[22.20]] For this reason, the Hungarian Socialist Party supported this event for the first time. I could also say - although it is a cheap wordplay - that we were gullible in this regard, because we believed that everyone really understood this as a national matter, and we all thought that this could be a successful event organized in such a way that it would not harm the interests of others, and that there would be a strange smell around the whole event. By weird smell, I mean the smell of corruption. We therefore voted for the first time. But then, later, the second time, and then the third time, he got here before the National Assembly. And let's stop here for a second. It is not normal that there is a world competition, and this is the third time that the Parliament of a given country has dealt with it. Why do we have to deal with this the third time? For the first time, we have given the government a special legal order, which I think is completely unique not only in the history of the country, but perhaps other countries have not given such opportunities and rights to those who wanted to organise such an event. Nevertheless, we have granted these rights to the government. However, I think that some of these rights are being abused by the government, so for the second and third time, when this came before Parliament, we could not support the event. I had a very interesting speech here, as I used to hear from that chair. I do not know if I can quote exactly the Prime Minister, who used to say that if anyone is aware of this, they should indicate it to the appropriate bodies. That's exactly what I heard, and I was surprised by the story. Well, anyone who doesn't see that has to go to the ophthalmologist. With regard to the most recent proposal: all of these properties were looked at, it was a serious job, because there were more than two hundred real estates, and we made excuses for these two hundred real estates in more than thirty cases, which meant that we examined these real estates, and in our view, these properties had nothing to do with the World Swimming Championship. To the honor of the authors, it should be said that the questions raised by us were answered in a normal manner, these properties were revised, and about 90 percent of them were removed from the proposal and other comments were taken into account, for example, that the law did not have any effect on the length of the property concerned. In the course of the amendments, the law has such effect as to how long it will last for those properties. Despite all this, there are still a few properties left that, in our view, do not belong there. I'm only going to mention one because it's a classic example. I have no idea what the Bibó István College has to do with the World Swimming Championship, but it remains among the properties to which this special legal order applies. I asked what we wanted to build there. Swimming pool? It's quite obvious that the mountain is probably not. What everyone remembers the first time is that it's a memento for the boys who went there. But how to do that and why to connect to the World Swimming Championship, I don't know yet. And the answer they gave me, I can't accept, because that's the kind of answer you'd rather make up than have to do with reality. As a result, given that, on the one hand, a significant part of the proposals we make have been accepted by the rapporteur, but in many cases, no, we cannot support the proposal and will abstain from voting. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2016-06-06-356	Thank you very much, Congressman. I give the floor to Congressman György Szilágyi, Jobbik.
u2016-06-06-357	I would like to say to a gullible Member that we will look back on the report. I didn't say that to the right bodies, I said that to me, to us, that we could look at it. If you know - you know - or anyone knows - something we didn't notice, then I told you to show us these things. And he said, "How's the show?" He said, "On that chair." No, you're supposed to tell me what I'm about to tell you from the bench. Because if we're talking about our love of sport and the importance of this World Water Championship, then I shouldn't be defending positions from the positions of directors, organizers and government, I should be protecting the positions of pro-government representatives. Nevertheless, I find that both the pro-government representatives and perhaps even the MSZP generally do not have the right politicians to speak - I do not want to question it now, because the XIII. The district is heavily affected, so you are current - but I think it was rather strange when we were arguing about the Olympics, and then Zoltán Gőgös and MEP Lukács expressed themselves on policy issues, and none of those who had anything to do with sports in the past have ever sat in the room and did not express their opinion from your benches. One thing they forget is that Hungary would have held this World Water Championship in 2021. Then, when the Mexican Guadalajara withdrew - they would have directed the 2017 World Championship - we had exactly two years to do so, because in March 2015 we won the right to direct this World Championship to achieve everything and to host the fourth largest sporting event in the world. It's not a small job. The fact that there are exceptional procedures, the need to speed up legislation, the need to make changes on important issues, perhaps three times, I think that it is far enough for us to be able to organise such a world event in two years. I say that if we manage to organize this world event, we can be proud of it, but not only can we be proud that if we manage to organize this world competition, we will have to draw a line and see how much it cost us, how useful it was and how much it wasn't, when not only the World Water Championship ends, but also the subsequent Masters World Championship, which can bring huge revenues not only to Hungary, but also to Budapest, but also to XIII. Circuits, too. Then let's draw a line, and then you can see how much you've gone over and how negative this world championship has had. Once again, I hope that there will be no problem with the World Cup, and we will continue to support it. Thank you very much.
u2016-06-06-358	Thank you very much. I give the floor to Congressman István Ikotity LMP.
u2016-06-06-359	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear House, I'd just like to give you one example. Here, the opposition is arguing with the opposition on this matter. So I would like to give you one example, which I think is a good symbol of what Hungary would like to do in such a hurry and suddenly, and this is the graphic design of this World Championship that we have seen. It's beautiful, it's spectacular, but if you look a little more closely, you'll see it's full of mistakes because of the rush, and the whole world's laughing at us. We don't think this is the way to do it. Thank you.
u2016-06-06-360	Thank you very much, Congressman. I will ask if anyone else wants to take the opportunity to speak in the remaining timeframes. [[There's no candidate.]] I don't see any contact. Dear Parliament, The debate is closed and I will ask the rapporteur whether he wishes to respond to what has been said in the ten-minute timeframe. [[On the signal of Sándor Hadházy:]] Congressman Hadházy says yes. You have the floor.
u2016-06-06-361	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, First of all, I would like to thank the Members who have expressed their support, but in my heart I would be more pleased if they could express their support not with one abstention, but with a very button, because that is what we are moving forward with. We're not really moving forward with the stay. For my part, I think it is extremely important that the broadest possible support for any such event, whether it be the water world or the Olympics, should be established. I therefore consider it extremely important that the preparation, conduct and implementation of the event be transparent. Thank you very much to the opposition representatives for helping this transparency, for example, by asking for clarification on the location numbers; we are pleased to do so. I would also like to assure this House that, during the preparatory work, every single piece of information will appear on the website of the organisation, the organisation, as is the case now. [[22.30]] I would ask you with respect to this, and if you would like to be informed firsthand in any form whatsoever, the Commissioner of the Government will give you the opportunity to do so. Take this opportunity. First of all, I ask with respect that you support the event with a button. Thank you very much. [[It's a rare round of applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-06-06-362	Thank you, Congressman Hadházy. Dear Parliament, The decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting. Next up is XXXIII. Summer Olympics and XVII. Discussion of the Commission's reports on the submission and settlement of summer paralympic games and the summary amendment proposal. By representatives of Gulyás Gergely, Bánki Erik, Vas Imre fideszes and Hollik István KDNP T/10726. The submission submitted and the Commission's non-individual documents received are available on the Parliament's IT network. Dear Parliament, The debate will be the first to present the position of the Legislative Committee within a 15-minute time frame. I give the floor to Congressman Vas Imre, rapporteur of the committee.
u2016-06-06-363	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, I inform the Parliament that on 2 June 2016 the Legislative Committee discussed the XXXIII. Summer Olympics and the XVIIth. T/10726 on the tender and organizing of summer paralympic games The Committee has submitted by 27 votes in favour, unanimously, a summary amendment proposal and a summary report. The summarised amendment includes, on the one hand, the Opinion of the Economic Committee and its own motion by the Legislative Committee, which clarifies the committee's proposal on three points, in particular as regards the historical section in the preamble to the bill. The amending proposal, drawn up after the five-party consultation, states that the Government will operate a safety and security coordination organisation to ensure the safe and secure conduct of the Olympic and Paralympic Games, to support the coordinated implementation of tasks related to the safety and protection of Olympic and Paralympic Games, and to coordinate essential security measures. The proposal also emphasises that the tender should be primarily financed through private funding and makes the implementation of the programmes to be coordinated by the main players in the tendering process. The proposal also aims to clarify that the amount of the financial contribution provided by the MOB should be taken into account when planning the budget of the Olympic and Paralympic Games Organizing Committee. I would ask my fellow opposition Members to support the summarised amendment, so that they also take part in the final vote on the bill, thus contributing to the success of our Olympic proposal. Thank you for listening. [[It's a rare round of applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-06-06-364	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I will ask the author if he wishes to speak. [[There's no candidate.]] I don't see any contact. Dear Parliament, On the government's side, Mr. Secretary of State, Mr. Major, he wishes to speak. You have the floor.
u2016-06-06-365	Thank you, Mr. President. The government supports the summary amendment proposal and the bill as a whole. I personally trust him here, listening to the comments on the previous agenda, that the idea and implementation of the Olympics will not be affected by the taste of the mouth, but by the desire for national proof. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-06-06-366	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, No rapporteur was drawn up by the designated Economic Committee. It is now up to the Members to take part in their speeches within the time-frame on the agenda. There is no possibility of a two-minute comment in the debate. First, I give the floor to Congressman István Ikotity.
u2016-06-06-367	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear House, We've already said it in the general debate, and we're going to repeat it, it's not the Olympics. The problem is the state of the country and the Fidesz-KDNP, the problem is the bill awaiting the final vote, which is subject to the Olympic event in Budapest in 2024. It would open the gates wide to the runaway costs and skyrocket corruption risks, serve the interests of the government's oligarchs. Already the tender procedure and the preparation, we think it will cause serious damage, and in this the costs of preparation, the hundreds of millions wasted on communication are only the smaller item. The bigger problem is that the Olympic fever distorts development plans, the overall and long professional preparation of settlement development and professional programmes, and absorbs resources. The bill undermines all other public interests. According to LMP, it is not only a mistake to start such a competition in Hungary in its present state, but it is also simply a sin. The country whose health care, education and social system are in ruins would not need prestigious sports events, but rather the repair of large supply systems. We know exactly how Viktor Orbán's great friend and master Vladimir Putin organized an Olympics in Sochi. God save Hungary so that Viktor Orbán can do the same! In response to Mr Secretary of State, I do not think this is about mediocrity. We are also inspired by the idea of the Olympics, but it is even more so that the Olympics will be held in Hungary over time, but we find this equally hasty and unacceptable at the moment in the state of the country. Thank you.
u2016-06-06-368	Thank you very much, Congressman. I give the floor to Congressman György Szilágyi, Jobbik.
u2016-06-06-369	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Contrary to the law on the World Water Championship, the Olympic Act will be supported by the Jobbik Hungary Movement. We will support it, because in the last six years we have not seen a legislative amendment proposal that would have been so constructive with the legislative proposal. It was not a five-party meeting, as Imre Vas said, but it was only a four-party meeting, because the MSZP did not participate in this meeting again, and the LMP should be praised, regardless of the fact that they said they were not in favour of the Olympics, but Antal Csárdi appeared and at least was there, listened to and expressed his opinion. This already results in some kind of constructivity. So there was a four-party arrangement. In fact, the Jobbik Hungary Movement took advantage of the opportunity to hold an additional conciliation with the government commissioner's colleagues, where we asked the questions that were and the proposals. In fact, I can tell you that we have received this law in advance and that the experts and I have been able to review it. So the government broke up with this law with the practice of giving it at the last minute, and it's almost impossible to see it. Now we've had time to look at it, consult it, review the bill, and then ask our questions. In fact, they went beyond that, because all of our proposals on the law, as we have made amendments, have been taken, whether verbally, with a positive intention, and have been incorporated into this bill. This was, by the way, what Imre Vas mentioned, because we raised the security issues, and we raised the question of creating a body like this, which, if we win the Olympics, can really guarantee and guarantee the safety of the Olympics. What I want to talk about is that I don't understand the attitude of LMP. I don't think it's a crime that we started this competition, but it would have been a sin if we hadn't started this competition. [[22.40]] At the moment, whatever the outcome of the 2017 decision will be, since the decision of the International Olympic Committee will be abundant one month after the World Water Championship, and I believe that Hungary will win. We also win by now mentioning our names on the same level as Rome, Paris, and Los Angeles. In fact, in the first round, we submitted a tender form that the International Olympic Committee has qualified for very good, so we are still in competition. It can also be said that we say this a little funnyly, that we are not paying attention and we can win it in 2017 and win the right to settle the 2024 Olympics. So it would have been a sin not to start, because this is a huge opportunity for the country. This is a huge opportunity for Hungary as a whole. I do not want to bore you with different data right now, but if we just consider that 19 000 new jobs can be created annually, we could create about 100,000 jobs with the Olympics, this would be a very important issue. If we do not constantly mention the negative example of Athens and Greece, but we talk about, say, Barcelona, which came out absolutely positive from the Olympics, I say only one number, in the early 1990s, a million and a half tourists arrived in Barcelona at 1.7 million a year, now, as the 12th destination of the world, 7.5 million tourists arrive in Barcelona, and this is largely due to the Olympics. Olympic developments are of absolute benefit to the city because they were designed to sell 60% of the Olympic village, for example, before the beginning of the competitions, and then 40 percent of it was sold. If you follow the proposal, the old proposal and the desire of Jobbik to have a rental-building program in Hungary, and we plan the Olympic village so that we can, let's say, give it to young couples for the long term, and later have the opportunity to buy their apartment, we could make a huge profit with it. The other one, one more thing I don't understand. You said, Congressman, that it is in the interests of the government's oligarchs. Which government? We're talking 2024! Until then, there will be two choices. I very much hope that it will not serve this government's interests, I very much hope that that election... - but now let us not go into political election matters, we cannot foresee it. A little more positive. Congressman, imagine that if the LMP could form a government after one of the elections, it would say to itself that they want to serve the interests of the oligarchs. I don't think that's what we're talking about right now. We are at the moment saying that we need to get to 2017 and that the application paper must be met as much as possible, that the requirements of the NOB should be met as much as possible, and that if the International Olympic Committee really decides in 2017 that Hungary will receive the Olympics, then it is necessary to start the even bigger work and to implement it. At the moment, this law serves to show that Hungary is serious about the settlement of the Olympics, that we have the legal and guarantee legal instruments that we are expected to submit this law for the following material to be published in October. I think this is an absolutely good purpose, so the Jobbik Movement for Hungary will support this bill. We also support the settlement of the Olympics if we are to win it. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2016-06-06-370	Thank you very much, Congressman. The next speaker is Congressman Péter Csizi, Fidesz.
u2016-06-06-371	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I rarely start a speech by saying that I was right about the solo in front of me, Member György Szilágyi Jobbikos. You have just funnyly told Congressman Ikotity that who knows who will lead the country in 2024, which party will get the majority votes needed for governance, and who will bring the country into a successful Olympic settlement, and after this speech, I can safely say to Mr Szilágyi that you may also be a pro-government representative in 2024 because you will be joining the Fidesz by then. I think that with the last speech, all the Fidesz Members were able to agree, because there are some goals in this country that should not be put on the agenda of party politics. There have been goals, such as voting for dual citizenship, the constitution, the birth of our Fundamental Law or the family tax reduction, which does not concern only the socialist, betterman, LMP or fidesz population, but also the interests of all Hungarian people overall. Even when we talk about the Olympics, we draw attention to an act of history. When we're organizing an Olympics, we're doing it for history. Let us do this to the future, as Mr Szilágyi said, and let us not forget how we do it to the past. For those Hungarian compatriots who have put a lot of energy into Hungary over the past century, it is not excessive to say that Hungary is the most successful in the history of modern Olympics. When it comes to the organisation of the Olympics, it should not be used, honourable Member Ikotity, to convey the political messages that are currently in place here in the walls of this House, which, by the way, has already been delivered dozens of times today, but, first, to thank those excellences, athletes, coaches and employees who have achieved enormous results in recent years, decades, nearly a century, in virtually heroic struggle, in very difficult circumstances, even if this does not mean anything to the LMP, with serious work. When we talk about the Olympics, it is not only the Olympics of Budapest, but also the Olympics of Hungary. Perhaps we should also be happy and it is worth reading the Agenda 2020 recommendations, which will allow the Olympics not only to be about Budapest, but also, as Hungary has given Hungary the success of the Olympics for the past century, the Olympic sites can also be implemented at different points in Hungary. Let us not forget that the training workshops, the training of replacements, and all that is needed to be successful Olympics, and then later Olympic champions of a nation, were not only born in Budapest, and the Olympic successes were not only due to Budapest. Therefore, I, an individual elected Member of Parliament, see the development of settlements outside Budapest primarily in the Olympic movement serving a broader idealism in the bill before us. I see what the settlements outside Budapest have done in recent decades in order to be successful athletes of the nation, and what we now have to do to ensure that rural, non-Budapest locations receive improvements that are not excessive. Of course, we can set an example in the world when there were no real professional foundations behind a world competition. We still have a picture in front of our spiritual eyes that would welcome us today in, say, a stadium in South Africa, where there is almost a forest on the field, but that is not the case in Hungary, Congressman Ikotity. I will always argue with the LMP, which thinks that Hungary is not mature to settle an Olympics, which says that only huge investments can organise an Olympics, while the Agenda 2020 recommendation is about the opposite. Who thinks that if we say not only about the Budapest Olympics, but also about the Hungarian Olympics, we cannot build infrastructure, thanks to the acquisition of the Olympics, that we will help the young people who live on the ground and the professionals working in replacements. After all, when we talk about the Olympic movement and the organisation of the Olympics, a serious idealism and spirituality looking back on a hundred years of history would be given an infrastructure worthy of the result that we have reached in recent years. Let's be honest about the fact that many Olympians have been given by settlements outside Budapest, but today's infrastructure is far from worthy of the European level that, let's say, we would consider worthy of our children to go to trainings, so that our children can improve their knowledge, and later the most talented will reach the five-ring tournaments. Yet, there was a time when the Olympic movement was saved by the combined strength of rural settlements and by a considerable amount of financial support. In the London Olympics, we would not have been so successful if the large settlements, including Debrecen, Szeged or Pécs, had not spent ten, twenty, or in some cases hundreds of millions from their own difficult budgetary sources in order to get the local Olympics out of the first world competitions to obtain an Olympic qualification. [[22.50]] After all, Hungary had a government, a leader who, although he had previously gained his position as Minister of Sports, or at least the first step in his government life was a sports department, however, he practically reduced the support of sport to a fraction after his entry into government, including Olympic sports. During the period 2006-2010, we were able to support, by bringing together the local authorities and Hungarian authorities, a replacement education that we can all be proud of, which showed the results of London. Finally, I would like to join Mr Szilágyi in saying that there are positive examples in the world. You mentioned Barcelona, where residential parks were created to help young people from the Olympic village, but still to this day the Beijing objects and the Beijing Olympic site are tourist attractions. They have millions of dollars in income from welcoming tourists and visitors, and the London site can host cultural and entertainment events that are very important for the country and the capital city of London. All of them are developments that have the basis in Hungary, since tourism in Budapest, tourism in constant recovery, could carry a sports facility, a large stadium to which world-class events, cultural and light music events can be brought in in the future. So, my fellow Members, Fidesz is clearly of the opinion that Hungary is prepared to organise the Olympics, the athletes have proved this in the last century, and the government has proved this in the last six years. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-06-06-372	Thank you very much, Congressman. I give the floor to Congressman István Ikotity, LMP.
u2016-06-06-373	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. First of all, on the suggestion of Congressman Szilágyi: if, now I understand that you are thinking that, in 24 hours, perhaps there will be a Jobbik government, and you will be building this Olympics, we hope that no, at all, there will be a LMP government, and we are exactly afraid that thousands of billions of forints will have to be spent on broken systems by then who knows how much. It really seems like a prestigious investment in an Olympics, and it is, and I'll be right back. You mentioned it, Congressman, although you improved it to win the Olympics. Beijing was only able to do this, and China was able to win the Olympics, and in the east it was perceived to have to win it, but then, of course, it improved it. The joke is set aside, and then I will respond to Congressman Chizi. Congressman, we agree, Congressman Csizi, we agree that the idea of the Olympics is a great thing. We agree that, indeed, rural cities have put enormous energy into this, and we agree with the performance that the Hungarian Olympics have achieved or will achieve, and there is no difference between us. The difference is whether Hungary is capable of organizing a world event in 2024 that... - and if you look at it, so don't daydream, let's look at reality: 4.6 times on average - by examining a lot of modern Olympics since Los Angeles - it costs more for Olympic facilities and the Olympics themselves than they have planned. So this HUF 700-800 billion, which is now being spent, is likely to rise more than four times, and this is a huge amount for the Hungarian economy. How do we want to achieve this? The global economic processes do not point at all, and the Hungarian economy does not indicate that we will be able to do so within that time, but once again, this does not make it impossible for Hungarian Olympics to achieve a very good result somewhere. The ideal of the Hungarian Olympics, I think, and according to my party, would be a shared experience for the Hungarian nation, which is very, very lacking, which occurred a long time ago, the XX. One or two times in the century, think of the 6:3 Wembley result, which makes the Hungarian people's hearts flutter right now. It would be good if we could arrange such an Olympics, and we wanted to have such an Olympics, but we think that in 2024 the country is not ready for this, and we think that this opportunity should not be missed, it is much bigger than keeping it as a negative thing, as a huge loss. Thank you.
u2016-06-06-374	Thank you very much. The next speaker is Congressman György Szilágyi, Jobbik.
u2016-06-06-375	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. I don't know, so I don't agree with you. That's the guts to be small, that's from there, from those benches all the time. [[Defiance in the ranks of the ruling parties. Erik Bánki applauds.]] Talking about profits - it doesn't look like an Olympic to put in a forint and take out two, so there will never be any profit. But I'll give you an example. We are always talking about the Olympics; no, in 2024 there will be Olympic and Paralympic games in Hungary. It has been said, let us say, in the committee meetings to which I am going, although I am not sitting on that committee, but I am going to listen to the report of the Hungarian Olympic Committee, whether the report of the Paralympic Committee, and László Szabó, President of the Paralympic Committee, who has now taken over the Paralympic Committee in a difficult situation, and I think he has done an excellent job since then, he said a sentence that has absolutely grabbed me. He said that if we could organize the Olympics in Hungary, it would mean infrastructural improvements for people with disabilities who would not otherwise have the opportunity to access it, and he said a thought that in all countries, including Hungary, he was convinced that organising a paralympics would be an intellectual accessibility in the country, because people would see these athletes from a close range every day, they would meet them, and they would look at them completely differently. It's also a benefit. It cannot be said that such a profit, for example, cannot be expressed in money. There's one thing I don't want to do, and politicians have a responsibility. I don't agree with you. I'm not suggesting that there will be a better government in 2024. I don't think it matters. It would be good if it didn't matter who was on the wheel in 2024. This is supposed to be an event over political parties, and the greatest danger is that political battles may even be a matter of the Olympic tender and even of the settlement. It should be forgotten, it should be able to rise above, there are parts of sport - not stadium constructions, but parts of it - that should be done without any policy, because from here on out, there could be cases, there should be cases that are not defined by politics. I believe any Member, however, that he likes and wants to do sports in the same way, doesn't matter what colors he starts in, just as I don't care what an Olympian, an excellent athlete, votes for in a vote, because that doesn't matter what he does in the field of sports. So what I'd like to do is not to sacrifice the Olympics in the field of political battles and even [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] Otherwise, if we win the Olympics... - I think this has to be above politics. (The President indicated the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell. ) That's how I'm going to do it, and as long as I can, I'm going to help you with this job. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2016-06-06-376	Thank you very much, Congressman. I give the floor to Congressman Péter Csizi, Fidesz.
u2016-06-06-377	Thank you very much. I will continue to commend Congressman Szilágyi, because I have to agree with you again. I myself said that the organisation of the Olympics is not a political issue, and otherwise it is not only a question of Hungary. The Hungarian Olympics in Budapest would be practically the joint Olympics of the Hungarians here in the Carpathian Basin. The borders that have surrounded our narrow country here after Trianon would also be disrupted in connection with the organisation of an Olympics, the organisation of an Olympics in Hungary, because the victory of a Vojvodina athlete, a Szekler athlete is also our victory somewhere. And if, let's say, a Székely athlete could achieve success in Budapest or perhaps, say, in Pécs, it would be a great nation union for all of us and for all of our loyalty to history. [[23.00]] And I think that we should list the arguments with Mr Szilágyi, because he has also brought up the issue of paralympics, and it is perhaps also our fault that we are always talking about the Olympics when we are very successful in terms of paralympics. I am a Member of the Parliament of Pécs, we have brought more than six gold medals in Paralympic Hungary, starting from Dóra Pásztory to Tamás Sors, and in any case Hungary has not only received a Paralympic champion, but also a local patriot Pecsi who still go back to school to this day, teaching young people about faith, loyalty and patriotism. So there's a lot more to the organisation of an Olympics than infrastructure. Congressman Ikotity, the infrastructure is only 10 percent. Indeed, the result of this is 90 percent, which is invaluable in forints. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-06-06-378	Thank you very much, Congressman. I will ask if anyone else wishes to make use of the opportunity to speak in the remaining timeframes. [[No signal.]] I don't see any contact. Dear Parliament, The debate is closed and I give the floor to Mr János Fónagy, State Secretary, who is obviously preparing and responding.
u2016-06-06-379	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I would just like to reiterate that the government supports and asks the entire Hungarian Parliament to support the presentation. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-06-06-380	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, For decisions to be made on Monday... [[Erik Bánki reporting.]] Closing time, Erik Bánki. I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Then I shall give the floor to Congressman Erik Bánki; the closing shall take place.
u2016-06-06-381	Thank you very much. Mr President, Mr. Secretary of State! Ladies and gentlemen, It is 11 a.m., so I understand at this late hour that Mr President has already rushed the session, but I think that as rapporteur on such an important issue, it is certainly appropriate that I also have a closing point. I do not want to put it on long notice, because I do not want to abuse the time and attention of my fellow Members, but there are some things that I should definitely mention at the end of the final debate on this important bill. I am very pleased that on the opposition side of the debate, we have also come up with cooperation, unity and addressing this important area as a national matter beyond policy, so, Mr Szilágyi, thank you very much for this constructive and cooperative contribution. Indeed, I also think that there is no need to count. So let's not count how many other elections will be until 2024, what the odds are for those elections, because, indeed, politics is unpredictable, so anything can happen in 2018 and 22 too. I am very confident that whatever happens in domestic politics, there will always be governments who take seriously that the Olympics are a national issue, taking seriously the fact that for Hungary, for the Hungarian economy, the Hungarian people too, there are such significant benefits and values to organize such a global event, we can safely say, perhaps the organisation of the world's largest event, which cannot be measured only in economic numbers. Otherwise, if we want to measure it in economic numbers and in economic results, there is also a benefit. Don't forget, my fellow Members, the Hungarian application, so Budapest's proposal, was the only one of the candidate cities where the feasibility study was published in its entirety. All other applicants have added only extracts to their website, and we have the full study available, in which PricewaterhouseCoopers shows that it will be an organisation and settlement involving sustainable development, which can also be a positive result for the budget. To prove sustainability, I can only tell you, ladies and gentlemen, that in the organisation and organisation of the 2017 World Water Championship, the government has also sought to build the investment, the Tide Swimming Pool, from materials that can be used even after the collapse. Government Commissioner Balázs Fürjes has confirmed on several occasions that, for example, once the bleachers have been dismantled, they will be fully used, and the government will build a P+R parking lot for the city that will then help improve the situation of urban public transport. With regard to the Olympics, every element of the investment will be sustainable development that we will be able to make use of after the Olympics, not only of the sports facilities, but also of the additional facilities referred to by my fellow Member Szilágyi, as in Barcelona, the Olympic village is also planned by the government to be used for young people who are founding families, whether as colleges or as swallow houses. So I am not worried at all that we are talking about a prestige investment mentioned by Congressman Ikotity, which will disrupt and destroy the Hungarian economy. Rather, I think that it is possible for the Hungarian economy to be able to report a development engine in the course of the Olympics, the preparation and implementation of investments that can further strengthen the economy on the growth path, to further strengthen its position, thereby providing positive benefits not only for the budget but also for all Hungarians. It is important to adopt this law because it supports the preparation of the settlement, the seriousness of the intention to apply, which is essential for the Lima decision of 15 September 2017. During the autumn, the Olympic Committee should be presented with the guarantee elements to ensure that Hungary is able to organise this Olympics not only at the level of intent, not only on the basis of its capabilities, but in fact on the basis of each element of the tender documentation. This requires guarantee elements that can be guaranteed by law. That is why I call on my fellow Members to support this bill in the vote tomorrow. The law does not contain any elements that could pose any risk to Hungary. It basically clarifies issues that I think are essential for such an event. For example, the issue of security and protection. You know, ladies and gentlemen, that the French Government has called for international cooperation on the French football European Championship starting on Friday in order to ensure that the hundreds of thousands of people visiting the European Championships are safe, not only in the stadiums, but also in the match and leaving the match. I think that this is also a question that must be regulated by law, and we must do everything we can to ensure that visitors to Hungary, but perhaps more importantly, Hungarian citizens themselves can feel safe during the event. The bill contains the same guarantee that investments should not only be made from State resources, but that private resources should be involved in investments that may be linked in part to the Olympics and partly to other economic uses. So I think that the government has also been forward-looking and has tried to do everything in its power to ensure that these investments are not just the budget, during which, obviously, after the high spending of contributions, taxation and visitors to us, it is possible to conclude this event with positive results. Ladies and Gentlemen, Overall, I think that Hungary will win the XXXIII. Summer Olympics and XVII. The organisation of paralympic games will provide a non-retrovertible opportunity that will enable us to implement by 2024 developments that are necessary for Budapest, necessary for Hungary, but otherwise, if we do not concentrate resources on organizing the event because of the Olympics, these may be 6-8-10-15 or even 20 years later. So it is in the best interest of every citizen in Budapest to host the Olympics, but it is also in the interest of all Hungarian citizens, because not only Budapest will benefit from it, but the whole country will benefit from it. I would like to ask you, ladies and gentlemen, to support this very important bill in the vote tomorrow. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-06-06-382	Thank you very much, Congressman Bánki. Dear Parliament, So the decisions will take place on Monday's meeting. It is now up to the European Parliament and the Council of 17 December 2007 on certain aspects of the procedure relating to agricultural, agricultural and rural development and fisheries aid and other measures. Act CXXVI of 2012 on the Hungarian Chamber of Agriculture, Food Economics and Rural Development. The Commission's reports on the amendment of the Act and the debate on the draft amendment. By the representatives of Balázs Győrffy and István Jakab Fidesz T/10518. Submitted by serial number and the Commission's non-individual documents received are available on the Parliament's IT network. Dear Parliament, The debate will be the first to present the position of the Legislative Committee within a 15-minute time frame. I give the floor to Vice-President István Jakab, rapporteur of the committee, within a 15-minute time frame. [[23.10]]
u2016-06-06-383	Mr President, Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, At its meeting on 2 June 2016, the Legislative Committee discussed certain issues relating to the procedure relating to agricultural, agri-rural development and fisheries subsidies and other measures in Section XVII of 2007 Act CXXVI of 2012 on the Hungarian Chamber of Agriculture, Food Economics and Rural Development. a proposal to amend law. The Committee presented the summary amendment proposal and its summary report. The summarised amendment contains the positions of the Committee on Agriculture. These proposals constitute virtually spelling clarifications. There was no professional debate on the bill. The representative of the national and government agreed and the Committee accepted the amendment. I would ask my fellow Members to vote in favour of the amendment. Thank you. [[It's a rare round of applause from the pro-government ranks.]]
u2016-06-06-384	Thank you, Vice President James. Dear Parliament, I'll ask if any of the authors would like to speak. [[For signal:]] Yeah. I give the floor to Congressman Balázs Győrffy, Fidesz.
u2016-06-06-385	Thank you. Mr President, In just one sentence, I would like to thank Parliament's committees for the clarification of the proposals that made the legislation truly free of spelling errors. I ask the Honourable Parliament to support it. Thank you very much.
u2016-06-06-386	Thank you very much. I will ask if you wish to speak on behalf of the government, Mr Secretary of State. [[For signal:]] It says yes. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2016-06-06-387	All I would like is for the government to support the summary amendment.
u2016-06-06-388	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, No rapporteur was presented by the designated Agriculture Committee. It is now up to Members to take part in the time-frames on the agenda. I will ask if anyone wishes to make use of the opportunity to speak in the time frame indicated. [[No signal.]] [[No signal.]] I don't see any contact. Dear Parliament, Therefore, I will close the debate and ask if any of the authors wish to speak. (No indication. ) They indicate no. Dear Parliament, The decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting. Dear Parliament, In line with the 2013 CXXII on the marketing of agricultural and forestry land. CCXII of 2013 on certain provisions and transitional arrangements related to the Law. The Commission's reports on the amendment of the Act and the debate on the draft amendment. By Fidesz MEPs István Jakab and Balázs Győrffy T/10399. Submitted by serial number and the Commission's non-individual documents received are available on the parliamentary IT network. Dear Parliament, The debate will be the first to present the position of the Legislative Committee within a 15-minute time frame. I therefore give the floor to Vice-President István Jakab, rapporteur of the committee.
u2016-06-06-389	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, At its meeting on 2 June 2016, the Legislative Committee discussed T/10399. CXXII of 2013 on the turnover of agricultural and forestry land. CCXII of 2013 on certain provisions and transitional arrangements related to the Law. a bill amending the law. Our committee has prepared a summary amendment proposal and a summary report. A substantive debate in the committee, like the previous item, was not reached, and the majority of the committee supported the summarised amendment proposal and report. I would ask my fellow Members to support the amendment in view of the importance of the matter. Thank you very much for your attention. [[It's a rare round of applause from the pro-government ranks.]]
u2016-06-06-390	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Parliament, I'll ask Mr. Balázs Győrffy if he wants to comment. [[For signal:]] It's signaling, yeah. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2016-06-06-391	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear Parliament, The amendment to the legislation before us and the amendment to the law have undergone some change thanks to the amendments of the Legislative Committee. There's a reason for that. I would like to take this opportunity to thank my fellow opposition Members for the constructive attitude that we are trying to address a very important and acute problem. I very much hope that this constructivity will also characterize the opposition in tomorrow's vote. One part of the legislation, in which we could not reach consensus and which would have affected certain of the Chamber's powers, was also taken out of the legislative amendment as a rapporteur so that the adoption of the consensual parts would not be a political obstacle. I believe that we have made a sacrifice that was absolutely necessary, and that it allows us to solve an important problem, such a serious problem that we can place a very important message for the Hungarian countryside, and this message is that in some cases we are able to cooperate on a professional basis in the Hungarian Parliament, which I hope is a positive message for all those who follow the amendment of this legislation. Thank you very much to the Legislative Committee for the work that has been done to achieve this hopeful consensus, and with respect to my fellow opposition Members, I would like to ask you to confirm the constructivity that you have shown in formal and informal debates also during tomorrow's vote. Thank you very much for your attention. [[It's a rare round of applause from the pro-government ranks.]]
u2016-06-06-392	Thank you very much, Congressman. I would like to inform you that, at the end of the debate, you have eight minutes to say the closing word. Dear Parliament, I'll ask if anyone on the government's side wants to speak. [[For signal:]] I give the floor to the Secretary of State.
u2016-06-06-393	Mr President, Dear Parliament, The Commission report and the summarised amendment proposal are supported by the Government.
u2016-06-06-394	Thank you, Secretary of State István Nagy. Dear Parliament, No rapporteur was presented by the designated Agriculture Committee. It is now up to Members to take part in the time-frames on the agenda. There is no possibility of a two-minute comment during the debate. First, I give the floor to Congressman Gábor Harangozó, Hungarian Socialist Party.
u2016-06-06-395	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear fellow Members, First of all, I would like to start by welcoming the attitude that our fellow Member Balázs Győrffy has taken care of this issue, because it is indeed an issue that is appropriate to solve, because a lot of requests have also come to us from many parts of the country, which was about how many people have abused the possibility of using a law to obtain land that everyone knew was not referring to organic farming because they really want to pursue this activity, but simply because the land law granted pre-emptive rights. I think that the second part of the bill, in which there was clearly no consensus, and we did not even agree to raise the problem, that my fellow Member suggested leaving it, is a very positive step. However, it should be noted that I continue to have a problem with all of this, namely that from the beginning we have not supported the land law itself, which has made this abuse possible. [[23.20]] We continue to think that instead of improving earth law, we need a completely different earth law. We also have a problem with the fact that we have not been able to resolve the problem that I have mentioned here several times in the past, that it seems that the agricultural portfolio does not seem to be at the top of the situation, because the problematic law itself, which allowed this abuse, was registered at the time, it was still brought in by them, but the perception of the problem, the intention of repairing it was no longer complete by the agricultural purse, had to be brought in by Balázs Győrffy as an individual motion. Unfortunately, the problem is that this typical operation, that usually such problems are not noticed by the wallet, is not the wallet trying to correct them, and accordingly, the question continues to arise, but then why is this agricultural wallet needed, because I see less and less reason for the dual system to work, that there is also the agricultural purse, and there is also the chamber, both of which consume a lot of public money, and as if it were a double operation. We should decide which one to keep, or which one to control the domestic agricultural administration. I also have a problem that, after all, this has become a fundamental amendment to the law, because it has been quite rightly recognised that Article P (2) of the Fundamental Law requires that this subject matter can only be modified fundamentally, or that these rules of the game must be imposed in a fundamental way. There is only one thing I do not understand: if it is so clear and clear here, then in a case to be discussed later this week, in the case of stud estates, in the field-hegyes law, why it is not so clear and clear, because it has exactly the same analogy, Article P (2) also requires that this subject can only be dealt with in a fundamental way, and there it does not prescribe the polarity, it wants to replace the restrictions of the land law in a simple half law, and in this case the author brings it in in a completely correct manner. So, I welcome the proposal itself in such a way that this proposal can improve this problem, but we will continue to reject the land law and therefore not necessarily support its migration. Thank you very much.
u2016-06-06-396	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I will ask if anyone else wants to take the opportunity to speak in the remaining timeframes. [[For signal:]] Zoltán Magyar indicates that he did. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2016-06-06-397	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Mr. Secretary. I am pleased that this proposal has been brought in, just because I have, among other things, asked this problem with a written question, because we have received numerous signals from local farmers, that some people are taking advantage of this pre-purchase, pre-lease, and we are contributing to this loophole being finally closed. They could have noticed the problem a long time ago, as they might have seen many similar problems, which, by the way, are teeming with the land traffic law, and I do not consider it a good direction to deal with these problems one by one. It would indeed be good to have a whole new piece of legislation. It has been so long since the entry into force that we can draw conclusions and really change the legislation. I, too, thank you for your constructive attitude, and it would be very good to experience this kind of pro-government attitude not only in the form of fundamental laws, the two-thirds laws. Otherwise, the quality of the legislation would be quite different, as would the image of the Parliament in the minds of citizens, if we were to experience a similarly correct approach to every piece of legislation, even because our comments on the opposition's part were truly constructive, and we have no better proof of this than the fact that a number of them have been incorporated into the legislation. I am pleased that the chamber section has finally been removed - here I am referring to the part concerning the additional licences. I know that it has also tried to deal with some of the current problems, but we have considered that the Chamber would receive excessive driving rights, and we have not been given sufficient guarantees that this politicised character of the Chamber could ever be eliminated. Speaking of this legislation and amending the Land Traffic Act, I will say it every time like this, I will take the opportunity to say that if Mr. Secretary of State were to be able to inform us that the long-promised Plant Regulation Act, the Family Management Act, and the Law on Cooperatives can come before the House, because it would be understood in a package for us, because then we would no longer have to talk side by side, and we would know what it means to the government, let us say, the small and medium-sized family farmer, because it is clearly visible in everyday political debates that we mean quite different things under these terms. But if there was such a clear law, we wouldn't have to discuss it here every week. So to sum it up very briefly: an important loophole closes this possibility, many have abused it. I am pleased that we can do this, and in this we have been able to be constructive partners on the government side. At the same time, this is very little to make the Land Traffic Act an acceptable law for everyone. Thank you for the opportunity, Mr. President. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2016-06-06-398	Thank you, Congressman. I give the floor to Vice President István Jakab, Fidesz.
u2016-06-06-399	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. As one of the rapporteurs, I have asked for a word, I promise you, fellow Members, I will be brief. The closing point is said by my fellow Member, Balázs Győrffy, but I am obliged to respond with two small thoughts. One is that, in practice, the earth traffic law was correctly drawn up in accordance with the legislator's intention. This is not the only law when an application process begins and a loophole is found. Dear fellow Members, What can the congressman do at a time like this? What can the government do? It means he's moving, and he's moving fast. That is why I thank you for your cooperation, and thank you for your cooperation in helping people who, by the way, in all of our programmes are meant to be able to stay in place and farm. I only asked for the floor to signal to my fellow Member, Mr Bellozó, that if there is a case in which people can be helped, they should press the button. Thank you. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-06-06-400	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. The next speaker is MEP Zoltán Magyar, Jobbik.
u2016-06-06-401	Thank you, Mr. President. I have to react very briefly. It's okay to change the land traffic laws, and I'm glad to hear that, as I said. The problem is that it is not changing enough, and here we can start a debate on how many points we do not agree on, and I would like these to finally be brought before the House, so we have no problem with that. And I am willing to believe that the legislator intends to operate the earth's traffic law. That's exactly what we're dealing with. After all, I have noticed that the legislator's intention was not what they are saying in government communication, and I am not going to go into the large businesses, which have often been mentioned, close to the government, to whom the state lands have been allocated, and the Land Traffic Act has played an active role. But we really have a problem with that if it works according to the way you wanted it to work, and not according to what would otherwise be good for the Hungarian countryside. Thank you, Mr. President. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2016-06-06-402	Thank you, Congressman. I will ask if anyone else wishes to make use of the opportunity to speak in the remaining timeframes. [[No signal.]] I don't see any contact. Dear Parliament, The debate is closed. I would like to give the floor to Mr Balázs Győrffy, who wishes to respond to what was said in the debate.
u2016-06-06-403	That's right. Thank you, Mr. President. Thank you for the fundamentally positive comments. I think that my fellow Member, Mr Harangozó, has indicated that they probably do not support the amendment, but I understand that this is a political rather than a professional decision on the part of the MSZP, which I understand, but I am obviously sorry. I believe that with regard to a law where a two-thirds majority is needed and where the governing force does not have a two-thirds majority in itself, we can move forward if we agree. On the other hand, if we agree, I think our commitment to society is to move forward. If we can't count on MSZP in this form, we can't really count on us, but the farmers involved who are in such an unpleasant situation, because obviously I wouldn't replace them with MSZP representatives now, who will meet people in the countryside who we hope can help out of this difficult situation and unfair situation, how they will be able to communicate. [[23.30]] But that should be their problem, obviously it's also a political task that they can solve in some form, one way or another. It will be difficult to explain why they stand side by side with devious gentlemen who are able to lie about farming from one end of the country - sorry for the use of that word - and take advantage of that opportunity, or rather abuse the possibility of trying to take the land away from local farmers. I am very confident that tomorrow will make it clear that the Hungarian Parliament will not tolerate this kind of behaviour, will not allow it, and that we will be able to resolve this unfair situation with some of the opposition forces, if not everyone. In the hope of this, I very much expect that the Parliament will provide a two-thirds majority of this legislative amendment tomorrow. Thank you, Mr. President. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-06-06-404	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, The decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the discussion of our agendas today. It is now time for the speeches after the agenda. After the agenda, Mr Mihály Witzmann, Fidesz:. The situation of tourism in Somogy County and Siófokon. You have the floor, Congressman, within a five-minute time frame.
u2016-06-06-405	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I have spoken on the subject of tourism several times before, but as a Balaton representative, I think it is worth taking stock of the results of tourism in recent years, and with what hopes we can start the summer season ahead. When looking at the dry facts, it is important to point out that the role of tourism in the national economy has increased steadily between 2009 and 2015. This is also shown by the fact that, while the sector accounted for 7 percent of GDP in 2009, the sector already accounted for 10 percent of GDP in 2015. If we convert all this into forints, it is also clear that in the last 5-6 years, the tourism sector has increased its share of the national economy from HUF 1189 billion to HUF 3330 billion, while at the same time it has played a significant role in the expansion of employment. While in 2009 only 318 thousand jobs were linked to tourism, by 2015 this value had increased to nearly 500 thousand. Thus, it can now be said that about 11 percent of employees have currently found employment in the tourism sector. This joyful expansion can also be observed in the case of operating commercial accommodations, as the development of their number shows that in 2008 there was a registered accommodation of around 2,900, whereas by 2015 we can talk about more than 3,300 accommodation units in Hungary, which in some years means a 12% increase. Analyzing statistical data, we can also see that while 18 million guest nights were registered in commercial accommodations in 2009, this value increased to 25.5 million by 2015. On this basis, it is clear that in 2015 the number of guests exceeded 10 million, the number of guest nights exceeded 25 million, and the revenues of the accommodations exceeded HUF 360 billion. The impressive figures are naturally backed by conscious, market-enhancing government measures such as the launch of the SZÉP card or the Erzsébet programme, the reduction of hair, family tax incentives, the reduction of wages, wage increases or the tender support of the New Széchenyi plan, as all of these measures were aimed at allowing more and more money to be spent on families, people and for recreational purposes as well. For the sake of the specifics alone, it is important to point out that with the around 1.2 million SZÉP cards on the market, more than HUF 90.5 billion were held last year. Moreover, this figure indicates an increase of 20 per cent compared to a year earlier. Ladies and gentlemen, As a Balaton representative, I am very pleased that the Balaton region is the second most visited tourist destination in Hungary after Budapest. The increase in popularity and visibility of the region is also exactly visible when comparing the data for the period 2009-2015. As long as the Balaton region was able to show some 4.2 million guest nights in 2009, the same value was already close to 5 million in 2015. Therefore, in the rest of my speech, I would like to talk a little bit more about the development of the tourism indicators of Lake Balaton, Somogy County and, in particular, Siófok. It is particularly welcome to me that the positive tourist trends in Somogy can be seen at national level, because in 2009 the least commercial hotels in Somogy were located in three counties bordering Lake Balaton, while by 2015 the value of Somogy increased from 448 thousand to 643 thousand and the number of guest nights increased from 1.3 million to more than 1.8 million, thus preventing the neighbouring two counties, Veszprém and Zala. I am pleased to say that the seat of my constituency in the Balaton top 10 list of guests and guest nights, Siófok, is confident to hold its first place, but in any case Zamárdi and Balatonszemes are also worth mentioning with their 5th and 6th place. It is worth noting that Siófok has crossed the number of guest nights in the last year, and he has exceeded the number of one million guest nights for a long time as a mere dream limit, showing clear dominance in the region. This dominance is also well represented by the comparison of tourist data from Siófok with Somogy county data, which shows that the nights spent in Siófok make up about 57 percent of the county's guest nights, and nearly 21 percent of the nights in the Balaton region. Ladies and gentlemen, The data I mentioned earlier, I think, really reflect that it is not only worthwhile but also necessary to think about the development of tourism, because the sector has enormous potential for the development of the country. I am very confident that the development resources that can be called up to 2020 and the increased public involvement in the tourism sector can contribute to the recovery of the economy in the future, to employment growth and to further improving the existential situation of Hungarian families. Thank you for listening.
u2016-06-06-406	Thank you, Congressman Witzmann. Dear Parliament, After the agenda, Mr Ander Balázs applied for a speech with the title "The Region for the Non-Government Party Pub" II. You have the floor, Congressman, within a five-minute time frame.
u2016-06-06-407	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, With your permission, I will continue my series of realities after the agenda, in which I invite government party pubs to a region that really is not suitable for them, to what is the barbaric puppies of Bel-Pest ruin taverns of SZDSZ, and Terra incognita, which is just as unknown land as the blacks inhabited Central Africa before Livingstone's expedition to the exotic population of London's cafes. So, after the government pubs ate their little finger in the certainly excellent kitchen of the Parliament's Hunting Hall lunch, such as St. James clams with chili, chubby peach stew, green asparagus and risotto, they could put an adventure tour where, at the end of the month, they greet the greasy bread in advance, because they treat him with such respect - I looked at the former grip from the collected flyer, though, as a culinary innovation, instead of using the puffy mushroom as a kind of gastro-revolution. Otherwise, the natives in Somogy would become a busy consumer, but it is good that the government is watching, and with the reins of low wages and pensions, it prevents the people here from pushing the ugly chariot of globalisation. After all, compared to the national average, wages and pensions in the county, which are almost one-tenth lower than the national average, do not allow for great consumer vigour, despite becoming an enthusiastic consumer, such as the citizens of Csokonyavisonta or Sandszentgyörgy. Of course, multiplely disadvantaged areas also have their advantages. While the MNB foundation of the Matolcsys is forced to buy carpets at a price of 280,000 forints and, of course, the gentlemen are entitled to buy carpets that are not excessive enough to satisfy their legitimate needs in the four billion-dollar villa, the brave mover can buy a complete family house in Somogyracs for half a million. So if any government party puppy sees some real estate fantasy in the area, go ahead. By now you can get a palace at the price of a barely worn Silka jacket like the one your young minister threw in a trash can. As much as the Steinway Piano of 30 million purchased by the Hungarian National Bank could buy out the entire Bertalanpuszta. And if, on the trail of the socialist green barons, the region has been debauched even more as a servant of the pals, then a small amendment of the basic law is enough, and then the serfdom will be restored. But a more naughty government party puppy can also initiate the resurrection of the right of jus primae noctis, so the first night. [[23.40]] And in order not to have to listen to such a thing on the pro-government side, there would be a better solution than an ostrich with its head stuck in the sand: Fidesz party puppies and fidesz papis should join the, Get to know your country! To a movement, and not just to cut tape, go to the countryside. Although a libido enlargement may be an initiation ceremony, listen also to the views of the mayors of a few hundred enthusiastic sack villages, who might be able to provide useful ideas for all-knowing ministerial blokes from under glass. True, perhaps some of the angry mayors would give them undisciplined advice on what to do now, let's say, in a settlement of 400 people with 60 public workers when the village did not receive social land, because that was what the friends of the current power needed. And these angry mayors would ask questions. First of all, how is it possible that, despite the population density of 5-10 people per square kilometer - i.e. an amazing abundance of land - the luxurious zrt., affected by zero sense of social responsibility, why only the subsidies are being seized and why they do not give work even to a third of the population who have died during the century. And while it is legal for the glued paws to stick together, if it is obvious that the number of gypsies already representing a high share of unemployment in Somogy settlements will increase explosively, how will they resolve their integration if they do not release the gypsy leader's hand from the program to the world of work to the world of theft. Or are government party puppies, by the way, reeking about it, and if the land is sinking into a sociocultural ghetto, they're gonna drag it off to Ibiza with sleek elegance? Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2016-06-06-408	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Mr László Horváth Fideszes, Member of the European Parliament, asked to speak after the agenda. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2016-06-06-409	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, This post-scheduled speech at this late hour is a sort of late mourning. We can talk about this tragedy after the agenda, and I hope that we will also talk about it in the autumn session, but either within the framework of the ordinary agenda, after the agenda or before the agenda, we cannot go over it. This late weeper is for an 18-month, small, fragile life on account of a child's death - and now we can say child murder - which is incomprehensible, shocking, incomprehensible, outrageous, all signs apply in themselves and together. The life of the late 18-month-old K. Kiara, and most importantly her tragic and ruthless death, leaves a huge question mark and perhaps even a greater exclamation mark. He was already in danger at the moment of his conception, we can say, because his other three brothers were exposed to all the dangers that he was in danger and that he could not escape. It can be said that this little girl died of her parents'death because her parents decided not to feed their child. What can you say? They did not feed the child because they were in need, although I note that there is no need that can lead to child hunger, but because they chose to do so; not out of ignorance, not out of necessity, but out of design. Four children were all exposed to the greatest danger to her own mother, and to her life, nothing but her own mother. Four children from three fathers; the first three escaped. The first was rescued by his own father, his biological father, and the second was also judged by the court to the biological father, and in the third case it could be said that the kindergarten saved the child's life. This also indicates that the most vulnerable age for the protection of children is the 0-3 year period. After that, the institutional system can protect children. The question is whether, if a mother turns against her child, there is protection, whether it is possible to replace her with any legislation, any institutional system, and by any other means to protect a mother with a murderous intention, whether it is possible to do something about the implementation of her terrible, insane plan. Children in distress, children in danger, must be protected by the current child protection system. In this case, we must say that the system, the environment, the protective system could not save a little girl's life altogether. If the question of whether the employees of the system and the institutional system themselves have done something, then it must be said that, of course, they have done something. If the question is whether you've done enough, I have to say no. If the question of how he could have been more sensitive could have been more conscientious, then I say yes. If the question of who has passed an "A" in this indicator system is who has listened to his conscience, then I must say that this is the protective service. The Child Protection Act is nearly 20 years old. The Health Act is nearly 20 years old. I think that, for our part, we will do the right thing in the autumn session if we look at the legal environment of the child protection system. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] And we will take the necessary measures to prevent children from being used behind closed doors for the sake of anyone. An 18-month life is gone, the question mark is left behind. Thank you. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2016-06-06-410	Thank you, Congressman Horváth. Dear Parliament, Member of István Ikotity LMP also applied for a post-meeting address:. It is not enough to remember. You have the floor.
u2016-06-06-411	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, The Trianon peace treaty was signed 96 years ago, the tragedy of which was marked by the entire XX. The story of the century. An important milestone in history has taught us many lessons. We know from our own example that not only in the life of a nation, but also in a person's life, negative experiences can only gain meaning if we live, process, and use our experiences to our advantage. We've lived through our past. Our future, on the other hand, is shaped by us. All that happened to Hungarians is XX. In the century, we also have the responsibility to work hard and responsiblely to ensure that no more injustices that our ancestors of nearly a hundred years ago have been forced to suffer have beenfallen. We need to be very conscious in order for our work to be truly useful. Today, it's not enough just to get everything back! We need to remember with rhymes, but rethink, to put our common Hungarianness, Hungarian consciousness in the Carpathian Basin on a new basis, to help autonomy efforts and to stop emigration not only from Hungary, but also from cross-border areas. The situation is a little better than in the previous governments, and the Fidesz-KDNP government can take it as a compliment, but we see no reason for presumptuousness. It is a fact that the series of programmes announced by the government - 2016 the year of Hungarian young entrepreneurs abroad - is a forward-looking enterprise and we hope that it will really help our young people from abroad. [[23.50]] Dear House, The LMP believes that Hungarians should not only measure Hungarians with one-sided support policy, since all Hungarians who take public office in the Carpathian Basin work not only for their narrow area, but for their entire Hungarianness. The LMP itself maintains contact with Hungarians across the border in this spirit. Last time we visited the X. Rétéspusztivál Festival in May, where we exchanged ideas with all parties represented in Hungary. Of course, in our negotiations, we respected their own ideas of self-determination. According to the LMP, all political forces in the motherland should have a similar attitude towards Hungarian minorities across the border. Here I would like to mention the Romanian elections that have just been held. There is praise and thanks to all Hungarian candidates who dared and agreed to run for office in municipal elections, despite the abuse. Congratulations to all elected representatives, mayors, and we wish you perseverance in your work. It is also important to remember and remind on the anniversary of Trianon that it is all our shared responsibility to learn from the mistakes of the past, and our joint task is to implement a national policy strategy that, in today's situation, is as supportive as possible for Hungarian communities abroad, while respecting their rights of self-determination. The idea that the Carpathian Basin is a natural unit and that it offers sustainable solutions to the problems that arise along this approach should be included in an agreement drawn up at such a national minimum. It is important to see that the rights of foreign Hungarians are unacceptablely violated even today, 96 years after the Trianon decision: that is why, in our view, one of the most important tasks of the government is to develop a strategy that can effectively remedy these violations in the relevant European forums. One of the most important advantages of the European Union is the guarantee of minority rights, but it is the responsibility and responsibility of the Hungarian Government to enforce it. The May Other for Politics can rely on all political forces in this struggle, whether they are cross-border or motherland. Thank you for your attention.
u2016-06-06-412	Thank you, Congressman Ikotity. Dear Parliament, Speaking after the agenda Mr.Gergely Farkas Jobbik, Member of the Council of the European Union asked for a post-daily speech:, Let the opinion of the students also be expressed in the National Assembly - Report to the Jobbik Youth Department. The results of your campaign. Fifteenth episode. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2016-06-06-413	Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Allow me, as Mr President said, to explain for the 15th time the personal complaints, insights and suggestions of students and high school students regarding the education system. It is our great pleasure that the young people are alive with the voice of the Jobbik Youth Department. With the help of the Members of Parliament here in the interpretation of the better Members of Parliament, they have a constructive criticism. Even when the school year is over, the huge interest in this campaign is not fading, but we are experiencing, for example, the fact that young people like to come to us, are interested and express their opinion by handing out our leaflets personally. In the framework of all of this, Richárd expressed his personal opinion as follows:. I think it is right to make the admission procedure free, but the repeat and additional graduation exam corresponding to the admission should also be free of charge, says Richárd, the current 28,000 HUF high-level examination fee - for example, for a medical or pharmaceutical faculty, which for a few years was already 56,000 forints - unwarranted - in the case of applicants who did not graduate from any of the admissions. And then the quote goes on to say that I assume that this is significantly higher than the actual cost of carrying out the exam, and that it is a heavy burden for families in worse financial situations. It is not justified to punish those who do not yet know where they want to go to secondary school, maybe graduate in middle school, and then do not want to work in the particular profession, and therefore want to apply to higher education, or to those who, after serious preparation, have missed an 85 percent high school graduation from a place where 90 percent should have been, and that is why they want to rewrite their graduations. It's enough trauma for them not to be admitted immediately, and they can wait a year to relive the uncertainty they've experienced once before, not to punish them or their parents separately. This is a very legitimate suggestion, previously Jobbik also initiated the reduction of such post- and repeated exam fees. I think this would be a helpful and important step, an important gesture for young people. Alex was critical of the school start date. It says that the first hour of breakfast, zero, starts at 7:15 a.m., which is too early, and the day ends at 14.15 a.m. at the earliest - but we know that in many cases it's still later - and it's very stressful. Besides, Alex's opinion is confirmed by a number of scientific studies that young people in adolescence need more sleep, and much of the time being overburdened is taking away from sleep for young people. You might want to think about that. The hours have been pushed several times, too, and there are many criticisms about the start of the classes. So these two things should be treated together. Andris' letter draws our attention to vocational training and the need for practical orientation. More emphasis should be placed on practice than professional workers, even with the involvement of more entrepreneurs, wrote Andris. Charles, who was studying to be a policeman, found himself facing the same problem. He shared his experience with me in the following letter: I am studying to be a police officer, but I think that during two years of police training we cannot learn as much as during the exercises. In my opinion, police students need more field practice, " says Charles. There is therefore a need for a number of students to have practical knowledge at school in addition to theoretical education. Laura and Tamás also wrote in their letter that we would like to be part of the education of important things in life, such as KRESZ or basic financial knowledge. . Financial education, basic financial knowledge is also a recurring, recurring request for young people, which has long been demanded not only by young people, but also by several parties, including Jobbik. We hope that this will happen soon. But may I also mention Tünde's letter, who asks why there is no subject where we learn to prepare for life? He's a little more general, but there really is a need for knowledge that will help you find your way around practical life. In addition to a previous opinion, Tibor finds that the present curriculum does not prepare for life, and there are quite a lot of unnecessary parts in it. To meet someone who can't pay a check, for example. We would need an education that actually helps us to reach the, as Tibor puts it. Reflecting the opinion of many of Tamara's fellow students, he wrote to us: "In my opinion, students and teachers alike are burdened with seven to eight hours a day and a great deal of teaching material. Also, after school, there's almost no time for anything, because there's so much homework to do the next day. This is one of the most typical problems that students can provide to decision makers through us. That's all I could fit into today. Thank you very much for your attention, and we will continue the series. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2016-06-06-414	Thank you, Congressman. The title of the statement by Mr Zoltán Jábikós after the agenda is:. Repacked dumping goods, black-injected, expired, rat dung, VAT cheated and counterfeit imported grains drowned in food by the domestic consumer? You have the floor, Congressman. [[0.00]]
u2016-06-06-415	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Fellow Members! Spice pepper, sour cherries, apples, honey, tomatoes, eggs, melons, UHT milk, garlic, wine. Only a few of the products that are excellent for the production and production of our country's climate. Unfortunately, most of them are not dominated by domestic products on the shelves of shops. In fact, we are constantly losing the potential of our Hungaricums, and the vegetables and fruits that used to be a world name for Hungarian agriculture are often in decline today. Our markets and the shelves of multis are flooded by cheap, low-quality import prices that replace, among other things, the products and food listed above. The impact of often VAT-educated, printed-price dumping products on Hungarian agriculture and thus on the countryside, but indirectly also on cities, has undetectable consequences. Let's see, let's say, the case of garlic, where its previously full domestic supply is now 50 percent imported and 50 percent decreased to its own production. But even this deplorable proportion is made worse by the fact that the product believed to be domestic is not always domestic. It is not uncommon for Chinese imports to be repacked and sold as Hungarians at home. There has been more evidence of this in recent years. Meanwhile, in the countryside, around Mako, more and more people stop growing garlic and switch to grain. After all, it has a much lower cost, less expense. This requires a whole scale less investment per hectare. But speaking of China and imports, I have to mention domestic honey. One of its most important cancers also comes from China in the form of industrial honey, which is not suitable for consumption, but at least cheap, and the customer can't even tell the difference, since labeling is still not suitable for the smallest and most predictable task of finding out if the product contains industrial honey. We have also put a lot of proposals on this issue, I have convened a professional conference, and we have put these proposals before the government, which is undoubtedly complex. I am not saying that this can be resolved with a single decision, but at least the importance of the problem could have been recognised, and at least we could have taken the road, which then leads to at least a large part of these products being produced in Hungary. But we can watch apples, melons, cherries. And I know that the Russian embargo has been referred to most in these questions, that this has rejected the saleability of these products, but let us also examine who is the greatest winner of the Russian embargo. It's just the USA that's been pushing for it most. It is also important to talk about spice peppers, for example. Previously organized by the Hungarian Gastronomic Association, a paprika test was carried out, where at 19 samplings, these were also obtained from small shops, supermarkets and from under the hands, it turned out that there are not only quality problems with the majority of the domestic offer, but they are not even Hungarian products on top of that. In many cases, they were manufactured abroad from foreign raw materials. The situation has remained the same ever since. The spice paprika is rightly lost year after year from its famous past, and even is constantly receding from its cropland. We could talk about milk, but I don't think you'd like to talk about it on the government side. The protests of milk producers are coming together, and we are not only talking about organisations of interest and farmers, but indeed society is becoming increasingly receptive to this issue, and we can increasingly look at Hungarian milk. If there is no immediate and radical intervention, it is feared that Hungarian milk will not be left in a short time.10-15 years ago, anyway, most of the products that I have listed have been produced by ourselves. But today there are levels of damage to Hungarian agriculture, which may result in extreme cases that we cannot eat Hungarian garlic, use spice pepper for garbage in the stew, rot the apple, melon, cherry, or drink milk that has not heard the concept of taxation, not to mention Italian wine that has not seen capital. We ask not the impossible, not the miracle, not the unprecedented. We simply ask that Hungarian farmers continue to show their own products on the domestic market and do not have to compete with these poor quality foreign bastards. We would like consumers to have access to good quality domestic food, and if Hungary's name were a kind of trademark, where GMO-free quality food is understood throughout the world. Thank you, Mr President, for the opportunity. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2016-06-06-416	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speeches after the agenda. Thank you for your work. Parliament will resume its session at 9 a.m. Meeting day is closed, and I wish you a restful good night. [[Meeting ended at 04 04 a.m.]]
