u2016-09-14-0	[[The people in this room stand up and greet the voters' community. When the chairman of the meeting takes his seat, the people in the room will sit down.]] Welcome to my fellow Members. The 3rd day of the fall session of the Parliament is hereby opened. I would like to inform you that László Földi and István Ikotity will be notaries of my assistance. Welcome to our guests and everyone who is monitoring our work today. Next up is the 1997 XLVI on the National Hungarian Hunting Chamber. General discussion of the bill amending the law until closure. By representatives of Zsolt Semjén, Imre Vejkey, László Földi and János Lázár T/1836. The submission submitted by the European Parliament is available on the Parliament's IT network. First, I give the floor to Congressman Imre Vejkey, the author of the item on the agenda.
u2016-09-14-1	Mr President, Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, In the course of last year, following a rethink of the legislative environment for wild game management, a uniform and coherent start was made to regulate the sector's legislation for almost 20 years. Putting it on the foundation of the century. The first and perhaps the most important parliamentary stage in this work was the amendment of the Wildlife Law. Lower-level legislation is currently being adapted to the amended game management law and the relevant legislation is being reviewed in a complex manner. The next parliamentary stage of the work is to establish coherence between the almost twenty-year law on the National Hungarian Hunting Chamber and the new provisions of the Wildlife Management Act. Ladies and Gentlemen, The National Hungarian Hunting Chamber is a public body with local government, which also carries out public tasks and general professional interests, which provides more than 60 thousand sports hunters and professional hunters with the professional, ethical, administrative and representative background for the pursuit of hunting activities. As of next year, the Wildlife Management Act also refers the issue of hunting licenses to the Chamber, and accordingly it should be included in the Chamber Act. In view of the nature of the hunting chamber members' activities, it is difficult to question whether the hunting activity is specific, since it requires a high level of professional knowledge and special training required by statutory standards of a public-law nature. Hunting is also an activity which is necessarily associated with increased responsibility and disciplinary and ethical requirements, which, by its content and nature, is considered as a professional activity for sports hunters as well as for professional hunters. Ladies and Gentlemen, Through the Hungarian Hungarian Hunting Chamber, both professional and sports hunters can observe the professional and ethical requirements of Hungarian hunting and hunting activities, while respecting the ethical rules developed by themselves. However, this can only be achieved effectively if no one is able to exclude itself from the control and possible accountability. In view of this, it is in the interest of both the profession and society to use only theoretical, professional and ethically trained, prepared and morally capable people in the pursuit of hunting activities using tools, namely hunting weapons, the use of which is associated with increased safety risks and the pursuit of such activities constitutes a dangerous operation. In order to meet and enforce these requirements, it is necessary that all domestic hunters with hunting tickets become members of the hunting chamber. The new provision of the amendment to the law specifically serves this purpose. Ladies and Gentlemen, They should know that in order to carry out the tasks that the Chamber of Hunters has to carry out in the future, it is necessary to provide the Chamber with an adequate financial background in order to carry out the tasks to be carried out in the future. If the law was adopted, it would be covered by the fact that the hunting ticket and the hunting licence fee would in future be one of the incomes of the hunting chamber. In view of all this, please support the 1997 XLVI on the National Hungarian Hunting Chamber. T/11836. Bill No. 1. The KDNP parliamentary faction supports it. Thank you for your kind attention. [[Sallai R. Benedek applauds.]]
u2016-09-14-2	Thank you. I would like to ask if, on behalf of the government, Mr Bitay Márton wishes to speak. [[Dr. Márton Bitay: Thank you very much, no.]] He doesn't want to. Thank you. Now we're going to hear the keynote speeches. In this context, I give the floor first to Balázs Győrffy, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group.
u2016-09-14-3	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, The above proposal serves two purposes: on the one hand, it brings together the provisions of the recently amended Wildlife Protection, Wildlife Management and Hunting Law, on the other hand, it restores the compulsory membership of the National Hungarian Hunting Chamber to all natural persons engaged in hunting activities, i.e. sports hunters and professional hunters. The Vtv. This amendment extended the hunting chamber's tasks with effect from 1 March 2017 by issuing the hunting licence. The present draft sets out this task in the legislation on the Chamber of Hunters. At the same time, it states that the related fee is entirely the revenue of the Chamber. The same amendment applies to the fee for issuing the hunting ticket. According to the draft, this would now be the full income of the Chamber of Hunters. Another important provision of the draft is the restoration of compulsory membership. [[9.10]] By the power of the law until 2002, the Chamber of Hunters was a compulsory member of all professional and sports hunters. The mandatory nature of sports hunters was terminated by a decision of the Constitutional Court in 2002 and the membership relationship became voluntary for them. However, hunting activities require a high level of professional and practical knowledge from any person holding weapons or carrying out hunting activities by any other means and by any other means permitted. As the reasons for the proposal state, the use of weapons entails increased responsibility. It lays down strict training, discipline, ethics and health requirements, which, due to the nature of the hunt, are expected for both sports hunters and professional hunters. In view of this, the distinction is not justified. It is necessary to belong to the existing Chamber of Professionals in order to meet and enforce previous requirements. The proposal was put forward by 9 votes in favour and 2 abstentions at the meeting of the Agriculture Committee on 12 September 2016, with no objection to its objectives. I would ask my fellow Members to support this proposal. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-09-14-4	I now give the floor to Zsolt Legény, the lead speaker of the MSZP group.
u2016-09-14-5	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, As the rapporteur, Mr Vejkey, my fellow Member, and Mr Balázs Győrffy, as the lead speaker of Fidesz, spoke about the substantive provisions of the bill before us. I would like to point out practically three things, which are a very important provision in this bill. One of them is to restore compulsory chamber membership, in Hungarian it would be mandatory for all hunters to become chamber members from now on. For the record, about 99 percent of the hunters have been members of the Chamber, so it wouldn't make such a big difference anyway. The other significant change would be that, in addition to the hunting ticket, the hunting license would be issued by the Chamber. I think that it would not be possible to argue professionally with this thing, because if it were to be concentrated in one hand, it would not be a problem, and from now on, when this law comes into force, then the entire prize of hunting, let us say, will remain with the hunting chamber. I think that this should not be argued too highly professionally, either, because the hunting chamber would probably continue to use it for purposes that would be appropriate for hunters and hunters. However, we have a specific problem and a problem with the procedure. In fact, since 2010 Fidesz has been ruling in Hungary, we have seen it a lot since then, in my opinion, not even as a mockery of the legislative work, at least as a result of its circumvention, when the government is not submitting legislative proposals - because it would then have a mandatory social consultation formula, it would have to go through a number of things - but as individual representatives of Fidesz do so in the form of a motion. We've always raised our word against this practice. We think it is particularly harmful, and I think it is particularly unfortunate from a legislative point of view, and it is not good for the government to resort to this solution. We have mentioned it several times and said in every such bill, which came before the House, that we do not consider this to be fortunate, that we cannot support it, and we believe that it does not increase the quality of legislative work and Parliament, but rather reduces it if the legislative proposals are presented to the House not as government proposals, but as individual representatives' motions. It is strange that, moreover, the original two petitioners of this bill were ministers of Lázár and Semyen, so they are members of the government; from then on, it is completely incomprehensible why the government did not submit this bill. We understand that it is not in the form of a motion by the government and by individual representatives that it is possible again to avoid mandatory social consultations and the formulas laid down in the legislative law as to how a bill should be passed. Therefore, the bill contains professionally good proposals. It contains proposals that move the hunt forward, the hunt, but the procedure is extremely harmful and we believe that it is not acceptable. Therefore, the Hungarian Socialist Party's parliamentary group cannot support or reject the bill during the votes, so it will abstain. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2016-09-14-6	I now give the floor to Zoltán Magyar, the lead speaker of Jobbik's group.
u2016-09-14-7	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Fellow Members! On the subject of the present draft, I must say what I have to say at the committee meeting that we support the intention to amend itself, as we have no objection to the professional parts, as we also agreed with the decisive part of last year's legislation. However, if then, last year, the marks were taken seriously on the part of the profession and the amendments made by opposition representatives, the present draft would certainly be even shorter, since many of the intentions of the amendments at that time envisaged that these problems should be dealt with at that time. I have to judge the procedure itself. It was submitted by two members of the government and, as has already been said before, it is being abused: they are trying to get away with a normal legislative agenda. So much for the proposal itself. So the Jobbik fraction can support it. Our problem is more about hunting matters, which is not going to come before the House, and here I would like to share with you a few brief thoughts about the division of territories. Bács-Kiskun County, Borsod, Csongrád, Győr-Moson-Sopron, Vas County are just a few areas from which we are bombed with suspected abuse of various hunting claims. I am only concerned, of course, with matters where the state itself may be involved, because I do not believe that Parliament should decide on disputes relating to various private property matters. However, it is strange when the state decides from public areas through a mechanism which is not very well known by hunters, and often makes decisions that are sharply contrary to game management aspects in its own areas. I am thinking about which initiative the Hungarian State will support if there are more in the case. Almost all the cases that have come to me raise serious political questions, as there are interests behind them that we already know well. It is enough to think of Minister Lázár's estates in Csongrád county, and the name of Habony, Lőrinc Mészáros, who are trying to gain interests in several hunting grounds through various stooges and relatives. I believe that this is causing very serious damage to both the profession and society in the first place is a controversial area of judgment, and this does not help to restore the perception of the activity itself in the eyes of society. That is why I find it a grave loss beyond the destruction of many decades of work. We are talking, however, about the impossibility of hunting companies that have put decades of work into it, often in an uncontroversial manner, spending millions of forints, a lot of money to ensure that this area is of the right quality, and now, as I have said, they are taking these areas out of them in a completely unprovoked professional manner. [[9.20]] At the border between Győr-Moson-Sopron and Vas counties, the interests of three well-functioning companies in cooperation with the locals were seriously violated only in order to create a company close to a local Fidesz circle from scratch. I was found in similar suspicious activities during the Isle, and then, of course, I forwarded this to the Minister, from which I receive unconventional and unprofessional answers. So it would be nice if we could talk about them here in the House. Mr. Secretary of State is a great expert in this area, since he is also a hunter, and he has a good relationship with these interests, so he is certainly aware of these matters, and it would be good to have an answer. If the state decides, obviously it is not the wildlife management aspects, it is not the nature conservation and local interests that are the primary aspects, because we have been able to demonstrate in particular that they have not been taken into account in these decisions, then what could have been behind them? It is likely that the suspicions would be justified if the Secretary of State answered them honestly, which I have already pointed out. In order to facilitate the detection of these problems, I would like to initiate the convening of the Forestry Sub-Committee, which operates within the Committee on Agriculture. Unfortunately, a sub-committee on wild game management does not work, so we have considered that the Forestry Sub-Committee is perhaps the one that will be most suitable for carrying out these debates. But we know what the parliamentary committee debates are about to end. We'll sit down for a few hours, have a conversation next to each other and have no consequences. However, what you are doing in relation to hunting grounds has serious consequences for 20 years and, in some respects, also cross-border. I'm asking you to reconsider the disputes. Jobbik's strong position is that public areas should be treated only in the light of the public good, and that only the aspects of the common good should be taken into account when these areas are distributed, rather than in order to satisfy some kind of political ulterior motive, should be used by the Hungarian State. We want these decisions to be transparent. And if we Members of Parliament are approached by the injured parties with their own problems and presented them to you, then we should not receive meaningless, completely unprofessional and politicised responses. We just want to make it clear that wildlife management, nature conservation and local interests really prevail in relation to a state decision. This is what I wanted to add to what I said. Thank you for the opportunity, Mr. President. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2016-09-14-8	I give the floor to Sallai R. Benedek, the lead speaker of the LMP Group.
u2016-09-14-9	[[While he's pinning his microphone:]] I'm sorry, but someone's got my tweezers. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, Thank you very much for the floor, and I very much welcome the representatives of the profession, Mr. Head of Department, Mr. Deputy Head of Department, Mr. Secretary-General. Thank you very much for participating in this small friendly conversation here about the hunting chamber. Firstly, I would like to respond to what my fellow opposition Members have already said. This is an evasive maneuver on the part of the government regarding the lack of mandatory social consultation. I must be honest with you that in my opinion, in the legislative proposal submitted, there could be a professional consensus that they did not really want to avoid social consultation, but that it was simply about the usual slob. It is in the interest of the hunting society and the Chamber to pass this legislation as soon as possible, but they did not start in time. In the same way as in many cases we see this on the part of the government, leaving it with sinful irresponsibleness, sloppyness, sloppyness, rather than the last moment trying to solve something in time, and creating the right space for professional organisations and workshops to develop an opinion. So not so much as I miss the lack of social consultation as I miss the right time from this submission, but I think that we can go beyond that, because the proposal that we have tabled nevertheless contains a number of elements that are worth talking about. In any case, I still find it odd that if the government no longer submits and circumvents the legislative tasks, then why is it submitted by the members of the Chamber? It's always weird when I feel that way. The president of the National Chamber of Agriculture will submit the legislation that will give the Chamber full power to do something. Last time, Lajos Szűcs, President of Mohos came here, we gave all the water to the organization that he was running. Erik Bánki - I don't know what the name of this great national football league is - came in here so that the forints could go to his organization for supplies. Doesn't anyone seem morally concerned that everyone wants to raise funds for their own organization? Isn't there another Member who takes over at this time, and doesn't the government members or fellow members of government have the impression that it's just a little bit incompatible that everyone wants to get their own funds, get fishing grounds, get tax forints? I would rather object to this problem or to its possible ethical background if you do not resent this if my friendly comment is not taken as a political attack. This has been the case so far, and I'm afraid it will continue to happen, and I think it would be better if it didn't. The legislation is basically designed to strengthen the Chamber, to increase the capacity of the Chamber and to strengthen the capacity of the Chamber. This can be supported under certain conditions. I say that under certain conditions, because I have to carry out an activity in Parliament that I know very well about the National Agricultural Chamber, which is practically a party organization. Magos has taken over the entire Chamber of Agriculture, and the Chamber of Agriculture is here to protect the government from farmers and says that with great social legitimacy, we support all kinds of filth, whether it's land privatization or anything else. An addiction to the government is a kind of risk. Knowing the way the Chamber works for a long time, this is not the case at the moment, but I fear that if dependence on resources appears at this level and politics may appear at a higher level in the Chamber, then this risk will be taken. So the basic condition for supporting the law is the moral commitment of the Chamber to protect its members from government, stupid regulation, improper landscape use, agricultural processes that make wildlife farming impossible. If the Chamber will be able to stand up for the professional interests of wildlife management regardless of these resources, the confirmation of the Chamber is good, then the functioning of the public body is necessary. That's the condition, nothing else. To support this, it is necessary to ensure that the full leadership of the Chamber stands up for the management of the game, not to lean on everything the government says for resources and hundreds of millions from now on as the government's pawn dog. If professional independence remains and the opportunity remains to protect national professional interests, I believe that the legislation also contains elements that are essentially eligible. There was only one thing that occurred to me, as I looked at the eight sections that were being amended, and this is the set of rules and conditions for the use of these sources. Of course, it doesn't matter that the Hungarian government gives up hundreds of millions of the Hungarian community's money. This is because the wild is the property of the state, and the state is the collective of the citizens of Hungary, and therefore the income from the use of natural resources from the property of every Hungarian citizen resigns to a body. If this body carries out this task and enriches the state's wealth, it also provides an opportunity to increase game management revenues, to increase the rural development, local job-supporting and natural value-rich activities of game management, then again a good measure can be taken. The question is why my fellow Members have not thought that these safeguards could perhaps be incorporated into the legislation. It could be specified that a specific part of these resources should always be devoted to the hunting ethics development in the justification. Why should it not be possible for a specific part of it to contribute only to habitat development, to animal management and habitat development under objective conditions? [[9.30]] Practically, who has been monitoring the various articles of the hunting press, he has now known for about 5-6 years that the small wild game is no longer on the brink of collapse, but has been largely collapsing. There are species of small game that I think we'll be able to protect here in a very short time, because that's the case. Forgive me, for I never fundamentally trust governments, and this seems to be the case regardless of governments. But if it were up to me, I would incorporate the legal standards, the criteria defined by Parliament, into this legislation. And I would say that it is necessary to provide assurances that these offered resources should not simply go away and be used - we have seen such an example in the public forestry sector, and this obviously has a slight impact on the practical experience that they have started operating with 50 percent management costs from the public source - but that it should be specified that the legislator's intention, although I can only estimate the intention of the legislator, who brought it in, but knowing the authors' hunting activities would certainly be to provide more resources for the performance of the game management professional tasks. This is necessary in Hungary on the basis of all my information. Hungary has exited from the aid and financing of wildlife management spectacularly and foolishly, and this has contributed significantly to the trends that exist in Hungary at the moment. In this matter, I would very much ask my fellow government Members not to take this personally, because we are not talking about the process that has started over the last six years, but about a process that has started a long time ago. For this reason, the availability of resources for habitat conservation and development to game management for the performance of its professional tasks, specific game farmers and hunters is, in my view, a necessary and necessary step. But here's the next factor. With all due respect to my fellow Member, I always bring up the typical bad example, the agricultural chamber, but we do not want the resources for habitat development to be distributed out of these funds, so that those who have now obtained hunting rights, those who have new hunting rights from 2017, possibly close to the government, may be in a position to have control of this, while others may have less access to it, and do not decide on professional aspects. So, overall, it can be said that the professional part of the legislation is to be supported, but I am missing the professional guarantees that the aim of the legislation, i.e. the higher professional performance of the game management tasks, could be justified. Possibly, the submission and acceptance of such subtle amendments would significantly help a opposition party to be able to say yes with a good heart and not to roam between residence and gender because of uncertainty about what purpose this will serve. If the intentions of improving Hungary's wildlife management tasks are honest, then I think this would make a significant contribution to making this legislation eligible. Looking at the detailed justification, I can't find anything in it that's objectionable. For my part, I think the elimination of individual shooting lists is a good thing. I've never understood why we need a double register, in which, I think, since this god is in heaven, we've never had a match, because there's no such thing as a precise record of everything. So it only gave birth to conflict and inaccuracy. The fact that the hunter is entitled to this obligation and the vast majority of our slob hunters do not have to write such tiny letters, I think it is basically in the interest of hunters, saves them from an unnecessary administration, and serves to advance the accuracy of the game management data, as the hunter is likely to be able to keep a more accurate record. In the second phase, I am particularly pleased by the fact that the obligations in the game management repository are being increased. I think that it is essential for Hungary's natural resources reserves to be recorded and managed with accurate data. Therefore, I think it is desirable and useful to increase this type of data. For the third stage, I would like to raise only one point, since I am already in the privileged position of having representatives of the profession here. Forgive me for coming with my own stupidity, but a long time ago, I would like to ask the profession to reconsider the concept of a sports hunter. I don't know how many people they know in the hunting community who want to shoot a game for sport, want to do such an activity for sport, and sport, as such, is when we want to fight someone else, how compatible it is with hunting, when we should be more happy with the other's success than our own. So the concept of sports hunter always stinged my eyes, wherever I saw it, wherever I read it. This is possible, and forgive me that it does not belong specifically to the Chamber Act, but its reflection would be timely in the Hungarian language of hunting. Because I think Tibor Eördögh had a book on hunting language sometime in the '60s, in which he discussed hunting terms, and in that the concept of a real hunter was a much more separable concept, and the distinction between hunter and professional hunter was a more sympathetic form. For my part, who I know hunters, most of them are committed nature walkers, committed nature conservationists, they don't necessarily want to shoot, they don't want to fight anyone else. These activities are less compatible with sport. I recommend this only for consideration, since in the third stage, the same term appears again and again. The fourth to fifth phase is entirely something that can be supported, which can provide a guarantee of maintaining the level of wild game management in the long term. For my part, I'd like to buy a very small extra fuse. The current management and composition of the Chamber creates this guarantee, but since everything can always change, the legal guarantee would be good if the professional-university workshops dealing with game management could appear in planning and making decisions. This is now guaranteed, as I understand it, because of the personal composition, perhaps to have later guarantees that there are at all times 3-4 professional wildlife management and wildlife biology workshops in Hungary, that may be justified. At the same time, the fifth stage, so that the total amount may be applied to the Chamber, in my opinion, as I have said, could bring a particular step forward in the event that this will only translate into wildlife protection, habitat development, the improvement of the ethical culture of our hunters, and create the possibility to carry out a socially accepted task at a significantly higher level. Excuse me for saying this day-to-day, but I would like to apologise to the Secretary-General, if this may sound critical of my last thought. There is only one thing I would like to propose that the Chamber take into account if we manage to obtain resources in addition to the adoption of the legislation, it is to improve the communication of the hunt. Again, this poor dog with this tourist did not do much good for the Hungarian hunting community's judgment, nor were the hunter's reactions most likely to help increase the acceptance of this ancient profession, this ancient creed, in Hungarian society. So, in addition to hunting, habitat conservation, wildlife and wildlife management, perhaps the development of hunting communication can also be a task that can make a significant contribution to the continuation of the chamber's activities. To sum up all this, I do not consider the fundamental directions of the legislation to be wrong. I am fundamentally and exceedingly lacking assurances that these transferred resources are actually translated into what they are meant to be. With these safeguards, I'd feel completely acceptable, so at the moment I'm treating you with some caution. This, however, is not for the Chamber, but for the Hungarian government, which, unfortunately, has not convinced me that it is reliable in its systems of resource use. I therefore apologise with all due respect, but I will submit amendments and perhaps their support or acceptance could move our professional position towards a yes. Thank you for the floor, Mr President.
u2016-09-14-10	I will ask my fellow Members if anyone would like to comment on the debate. Yes, Congressman Gergely Bárándy has spoken. You have the floor.
u2016-09-14-11	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I also welcome the representatives of the profession to the box with great respect. My fellow Member, Zsolt Legény, gave all the professional arguments that we considered important and supported the political arguments. I would also like to confirm that, from a professional point of view, I may be able to go even further than what Congressman Sallai has said. For my part, I fully agree with the content of the proposal. I agree, and I would like to put this first of all on the table, that we generally support any proposal that strengthens the autonomy of professional organisations, which, let me say, increases the competence of professional organisations. That is what this proposal is now doing. I also know, ladies and gentlemen, and I would like to say here within the walls of this House, that we also know that this proposal, and here I am referring to what Mr Sallai has said about the problems, has essentially come from the profession. [[9.40]] It came from the profession, and it sought out the political sphere, so I can put it this way. That is why, as I have been aware of this, I would very much support this proposal, but I also fully understand my fellow Members, who, based on the practice of the last six years and on the bad experiences that have been experienced there, are having reservations about this knowledge I have now expressed, when two deputy prime ministers present this as an independent motion, not only bypassing the conciliation forum, which would be customary at this time in a government proposal, but also bypassing this consultation with representatives of other parties. If there were so many political cultures in Hungary today, then, in the case of such a proposal, where those who probably knew about this issue a long time ago and knew about this problem also knew that some members of the other party's fractions knew about it, they would have tried to consult the parties' representatives before submitting and perhaps try to submit a five-party proposal which is similar to, say, the legal proposal of the bar. The bill of the Chamber of Law was presented as a five-party proposal, including I was one of the notaries of the proposal, and it did not often occur between the walls of the House, but once again in this term, yes, I say once again that I said the opening speech and the closing speech, the closing word, by Secretary of State Völner. I think it would be worth doing this in such cases; because it would be a message to the profession, and otherwise it would be a gesture to other factions. Perhaps by doing so, the many reservations that my fellow Member rightly made, and that Mr Sallai has quite rightly said, could be disbanded and five-party support could be obtained for such a proposal. I ask once again for this consideration from the applicants, even because, as you hear, everyone has a fundamental problem with the circumstances of the submission, that is what makes Members suspicious, once again, quite rightly after the last six years. If this had not been the case and not happened, the House would probably have been able to reach a complete consensus on this matter. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2016-09-14-12	Congressman Balázs Győrffy submitted a two-minute comment.
u2016-09-14-13	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, Basically, I would like to respond to my fellow Member Barondy's speech. I would not get involved in the eternal and perhaps never-ending debate with Mr Sallai, and here we already know each other's thoughts, which unfortunately does not coincide, but we may be able to respect other opinions. I agree with my fellow Member Bárándy in part, and I think that political culture could indeed improve in such cases if we found a platform in which everyone agrees, and we are able to approach it with professionalism and not from a political side. At the same time, let me pick on my fellow Member. However, that I respect what you said, but as a pro-government Member, let me note that it is very difficult to come to a five-party agreement if the MSZP has not recently gone to any five-party negotiations, as far as I know. So let me nuance the point here, however, that I think we can all agree with its content. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-09-14-14	Congressman Gergely Bárándy asked for the floor in two minutes and in a normal time frame. Which one would you like to use?
u2016-09-14-15	Two minutes, the other one's wrong.
u2016-09-14-16	Two minutes, all right.
u2016-09-14-17	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I, too, have a very short reaction to my fellow Member Győrffy's speech. First of all, the fact that we do not go to five-party meetings does not stand in its place, because one does, one does not; whichever one does not, we give an absolute reason why we do not. For example, we do not usually go to a 300 - page proposal a day and a half before the meeting. But I don't think there should have been even a five-party discussion here, just informal conversations, even out here in the hallway, and it would have been short-circuited, I say, given that many of us or many of us at least know and know this demand of the profession, and we would probably have been more easily able to convince our fractions of our total support if this had happened. Thank you very much.
u2016-09-14-18	Mr Zsolt Legény no longer has the opportunity to comment in two minutes, but if he asks for the floor in a normal time frame, I can give him the opportunity. [[Dr. Zsolt Crew: Then it's normal!]] So now it's up to you.
u2016-09-14-19	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. It is not my duty to argue with my fellow Member Győrffy for a long time, but I would just like to draw your attention to the fact that he may remember that when last year there was a five-party consultation on the hunting law, I was delegated by the group on behalf of the MSZP, and of course we were involved in it, and indeed there in the professional parts, I think we were able to reach consensus. So if there was a five-party settlement in this, I don't think... [[Dr. Márton Bitay: And in the end, you abstained, just for the record!]] Yes, yes, Mr. Secretary. Thank you.
u2016-09-14-20	All right. I'm asking if anyone else would like to comment on the bill before us. [[No one's reporting.]] I do not see a candidate, so the general debate is closed. I will ask the author, Mr Imre Vejkey, if he wishes to comment. [[For signal:]] Yeah. You have the floor.
u2016-09-14-21	Mr President, Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, As you have seen, the bill does not want to transform the well-functioning and stability framework of the existing legislation, but at the same time it wants to enable the Chamber Act to continue to fit properly in a changing legislative environment according to the expectations of age, society and the profession. Ladies and gentlemen, allow me now to evaluate the debate in the order in which the key speakers speak. I thank Balázs Győrffy Fidesz-leader for his statement of support. Zsolt Legény, MSZP-CEO, said in substance that he acknowledged the amendment of the law from a material legal point of view; raised procedural concerns. I would also like to thank my fellow Member, Barándy, who also said that he fully agrees with the content of the amendment. That's why I'm asking the MSZP to reconsider your position on this case, and if you can, support the amendment of the law. Thank you also for the speech by Zoltán Jobbik-CEO, who also said that he supported the amendment of the law. The territorial distribution, which the Member then spoke about for a long time, is not the subject of this amendment, but he also said that he would like to convene another committee meeting on this matter, and I think this will take place in a short time. Mr Benedek, LMP leader Sallai, also said that he supported the amendment under certain conditions. In my view, the concern you raised about the Chamber's future position is unfounded, because for decades the Chamber of Hunters has been in favour of wildlife management, no matter what the reigning government was. So I think the Chamber has proven its ability to perform, so I find its concern unfounded, and I ask that, instead of a weak yes, the LMP support the amendment with a strong yes. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-09-14-22	Ladies and gentlemen, The amendments may be submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. We now have a general debate on the amendment of certain laws relating to the review of central offices and the strengthening of district offices - metropolitan district - and the transfer of tasks to certain budgetary bodies until closure. The government referral is T/19107. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, I give the floor to Mr Zoltán Kovács, Secretary of State of the Prime Minister's Office, the rapporteur of the item on the agenda. [[9.50]]
u2016-09-14-23	Mr President, Dear Parliament, The public administration's aim and task is to serve citizens and businesses, to support and promote the social and economic development of the country, which, due to the over-bureaucratisation, could not really be met by the state before the 2010 parliamentary elections. Complicated organisational system, the associated inaccessible liability regime, the multitude of administrative burdens on customers have made Hungary's economic competitiveness even worse in addition to the economic crisis in 2008. In order to reverse these negative trends, even to increase the country's competitiveness, following the parliamentary elections in 2010, it was justified to take measures which significantly alter the system of public administration. Recognizing the need to reform the public administration, the government noted that it would lead the public administration system on the path of rationality and put it back in the service of the common good. Dear fellow Members, Following the government's entry into office in 2010, a multi-stage process started the creation of an effective citizen-centred public administration, the establishment of a service provider, a so-called good state. Taking advantage of his freedom to convert the system of public administration, he first achieved a rationalization of the territorial level of the public administration. As of 1 January 2011, 253 territorial bodies of 14 central government administrations were set up and integrated into government offices in the form of specialised administrative bodies. As of 1 January 2013, according to the historical traditions of the Hungarian government, XXI. The district and metropolitan district offices started operating as the local level of the state administration, adjusted to the expectations of the 20th century, and the Hungarian state administration established a system based on three levels - central, county and local. Based on the experience of the operation of the metropolitan and county government offices, with a view to further improving the efficiency of the performance of tasks and ensuring uniform operation, on 1 April 2015 he carried out the restructuring of the organizational and operational systems of the metropolitan and county government offices and the integration of specialised administrative bodies into the organisation system. As a result, metropolitan and county government offices and district offices carry out their tasks with a single organisation, clear powers and leadership. The government measures described so far aimed at and resulted in a strong, cost-effective and rationally functioning regional and local government administration. Several domestic and international reports have been produced on Hungary's governmental capacity, the effectiveness of its governance and enforcement system in recent years. The report on Hungary, drawn up by the National University of Public Service, on the way to a strategic government approach, by both the document entitled "Good State Report" and the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development, known as OECD, also acknowledged that the measures implemented since 2010 concerning public administration were justified and necessary, and resulted in more efficient performance of public tasks. However, the studies referred to have shown that further changes to increase Hungary's competitiveness, which significantly reduce the administrative burden on our fellow citizens and businesses and the costs associated with them, need to be carried out. Dear House, In view of the reports referred to, the Government, assisted by the State Reform Committee, decided on the direction of further reform of the public administration, a significant reduction in administrative burdens for citizens and businesses in several stages, the reform of the remuneration of public administrations, the establishment of individual sectoral careers, and the transformation of the central level of public administration and strengthening the local level, i.e. the reduction of organisational bureaucracy. Ladies and gentlemen, In order to reduce the scope of the obligations which create certain administrative burdens and to remove certain administrative burdens, this House adopted the Act No. CLXXXVI of 2015 on amendments to the law relating to administrative bureaucracy reduction and the Act No. XXXII of 2016 on the abolition of certain administrative obligations in the framework of administrative bureaucracy reduction. laws. As a result, general procedural rules on administrative procedures have been simplified, the scope of authorised activities has been significantly reduced and the time limits for administration for customers have been reduced. The second pillar of the establishment of an efficient good state is the establishment of a single state official's office, the settlement of the incomes of staff involved in the provision of public services. For this purpose, the Law on State Officials - LII 2016 was implemented. Law 1 - the adoption of which resulted for the first time in 1 July 2016 in a significant increase in the wages of state officials working at district, capital and district offices. Dear Parliament, Hungary's public administration has become extremely fragmented over the twenty years following the change of regime, and its effectiveness has gradually decreased. Each sector ministry, not least ignoring efficiency, budgetary or professional aspects, has established a large number of budgetary bodies at the central and territorial level of the public administration since the 1990s without rationality. Following the rationalisation of the public administration's organisation at regional and local level, both domestic and international expert studies have identified the central level of public administration as a negative factor in Hungary's competitiveness, which is larger and fragmented than necessary. In view of this, the Government has fully reviewed 90 central budgetary bodies and so-called back-up institutions at the central level of the public administration in the last six months. In the review of the central budgetary bodies, it was found that, in view of the efficient and rational exercise of the public tasks they perform, they can be performed equally effectively or even more effectively by the metropolitan and county government offices, as well as at ministerial level, and that there is no justification for the independent organisation of a significant part of the audited central bodies in relation to the performance of their tasks. The organisational fragmentation resulting from a large number of central budget bodies, the majority of the budget bodies examined, created by the separation of former tasks at ministerial level, often complicates the professional management of ministries towards regional and local government administrations, and makes the system of regulation more complex. On this basis, it decided to abolish the government's freedom of organisation, the continuous provision of tasks and the improvement of the level of performance of tasks as a primary interest - with almost half a hundred central offices or ministerial back-up institutions without succession or succession, in stages, on 1 September, 1 January and 31 March - this is on 2017 - and to deploy the authority powers of central offices to public administrations at local and territorial level, and at the same time to strengthen the local and territorial organisation system. 1312/2016 adopted by the Government. In the new system of organisations as defined in the Government Decision No 21, ministries carry out strategic, professional management and legislative tasks. Official impact and responsibilities shall be deployed to the territorial and local levels of public administration, the metropolitan and county government offices and district and district offices, and may, exceptionally justified, carry out certain tasks at the central level of the public administration, ministries or certain remaining central offices in the future. [[10.00]] Dear Parliament, In the context of strengthening the local level, i.e. the district offices, the most important official issues affecting citizens and businesses, such as family support tasks and powers affecting Hungarian families or legal assistance, consumer protection and victim protection tasks for victims of crime, are installed at the district offices. In this way, it can be ensured that cases involving the lives of citizens on a daily basis, such as family allowances or maternity allowance, are not administered by the county, but will be provided as close as possible to the citizens in the district offices, and will not have to travel anywhere else, where appropriate, as I have said, to the county seat. As a result of the transformation process, the Ministry, the capital city, county government office, district and district office will become unified, clean and transparent. This will be able to meet the social expectations of its citizens by providing more cost-effective, faster, easier access and hopefully higher quality services to citizens and economic operators. Dear fellow Members, A total of 132 laws - primarily technical ones - are proposed by the government in the bill that the Parliament has just discussed. It intends to ensure the objectives that have been mentioned and set, by the following specific means. In order to ensure freedom of organisation, the amending provisions contained in the bill translate their general designation into the sectoral laws concerned instead of the precise organisation of the determining authorities. The tasks and responsibilities of the bodies responsible for carrying out each task will be correctly assigned at the level of a government regulation. This solution meets the expectations of both legal certainty and the right of the government to set up organisations. In order to reduce bureaucracy and prepare for new procedural legislation, the bill makes administrative procedures of one degree, in certain and exceptional cases, according to the concept of general administrative order already discussed by the government, in which the metropolitan and county government offices act at first instance and the district offices act at first instance. Based on the experience of many years, the number of appeals relating to the type of case is low, so it is unnecessary to maintain the administrative apparatus at second instance. In these proceedings, of course, customers may request a change in the decision of the determining authority in the context of judicial review, in which case the procedure itself will be shorter and faster. Dear Parliament, According to Albert Kaas:, Although it should be said about any reform of the administration or rationalization of today's word, if we really want to meet the demands of modern administration, this complex group of three forces, the constitution, the eras and the existing administration, which makes administration a harmonious joint administration of the state and society, must be taken into account in the implementation. I think that it is important to bear in mind the thought and advice contained in the quoted text during the negotiation of the bill and after that. CHAPTER XXI The aim of the 20th century is to create an efficient, strong service administration, to which both Hungarian citizens and Hungarian businesses can turn with confidence, because they are able to handle their affairs in a high professional and fast and efficient way. The government's measures to be implemented so far and in the future, as well as this bill, are intended to further reform and improve the State of Service. In view of all this, I would ask the honourable Members to support the bill. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2016-09-14-24	Now we're going to hear the speeches from the lead speaker. In this context, I will give the floor first to Imre Vas, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group.
u2016-09-14-25	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, The document produced by the National University of Public Service on the report of the Good State made an attempt to examine and measure an efficient administration by asking the following questions. Will the processes of public administration enable certain sectors and sectors to improve their performance? Do the products and services of public administration enable individual citizens and businesses to meet their individual needs? And finally, what organisational and personnel resources does the public administration use to maintain these processes and provide services? In the context of these issues, in line with the objectives, the above-mentioned "Good State Report" defines the most important capabilities of the public administration, such as accessibility, customer capacity, resource management and preparedness. In addition, the report also adds satisfaction as a dimension, which is perhaps most important to us as Members of Parliament, but I believe that this is in line with the fulfilment and efficiency of the previous four. When the T/11907 in front of us. We are discussing a bill on the amendment of certain laws relating to the review of central offices and the ratification of district and metropolitan district offices, as well as the transfer of tasks of certain budgetary bodies, without prejudice to the application of the criteria described in the norm or their impact on public administration in general. The creation of a well-functioning state and the establishment of an efficient administration can no longer be called a milestone in the establishment of government and district offices. As with these aspects, it cannot be a question of whether the establishment of these authorities was the right decision, as recognised by the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development, OECD. The public administration measures implemented since 2010 were justified and necessary. The results achieved in the administration are particularly commendable, given the chaotic state left by the socialist government, it is enough to think only of the Calvary of county administrative offices. Of course, we have no reason to be content. The bill before us fits well in the process of cutting red tape announced by the government or, if you will, an integral part of it. Last time we discussed the bill on state officials within the walls of this House, which is primarily intended to ensure preparedness from the above points of view. However, before that, in December 2015, the Government decided to review central offices and central background institutions in the form of budgetary bodies and to strengthen district offices, in which the Prime Minister's Office carried out a review of 90 central budgetary bodies and ministerial background institutions. As a result of the Racialisation and Review of Powers, the Government has adopted the 1312/2016. By its Resolution No.3 of the Government, it specified precisely the central agencies and budgetary bodies to be converted. Therefore, it is not worth anyone, nor should the content of the legislative text we are discussing be a surprise, which proposes to amend 132 laws in total. [[10.10]] In view of resource management as a priority, more than 40 budgetary bodies shall cease at different dates, from 1 September 2016, from 1 January 2017 and from 1 March 2017 with or without succession. The new system of organisation resulting from the liquidations can be summarised briefly by the fact that the central ministries perform strategic, professional management and legislative tasks, while the tasks of the authorities are assigned at territorial level to the metropolitan and county government offices, as well as to district and district offices at local level. I consider it important to point out that the transformation process does not affect budgetary bodies carrying out national security, law enforcement, tax and customs duties and institutional maintenance tasks. It is clear from the transformation process that, in addition to the aspect of resource management, the government meets the criterion of increasing accessibility, as these requirements are met to bring matters closer to the citizens, the central administration system becomes more transparent and the administrative burden is further reduced. As Vice-President of the Judicial Committee, I would like to draw particular attention to the fact that, on the one hand, administrative procedures are to be united. In accordance with the concept of general administrative order, the administrative procedures in which the metropolitan and county government offices act in the first instance and the district or district offices act in the first instance, and the low number of cases justifies the appeal against decisions is directly brought to a court from an efficiency and rationality point of view. On the other hand, the amendment of the law on the service relationship of judicial staff is closely linked to the process of justice and the restoration of public trust. Given that the Judicial Experts and Research Institute is merged with the Criminal Experts and Research Institute and a new budgetary body is established in the chapter of the Ministry of Interior, management rights over the new budgetary body are exercised jointly by the Minister of Justice and the Minister of Interior. According to the amendment, the head of the institution shall be appointed by the Minister of Interior, taking into account the proposal of the Minister of Justice, taking into account the proposal of the Minister of Justice. The incorporation of the Justice Office into the Ministry of Justice is also an additional task for the legal wallet, but I think it will be able to cope with these new challenges. Finally, I note that it is very important to set a deadline in administrative procedures and not least to keep it. It is therefore particularly commendable that, in order to ensure the functioning of the metropolitan and county government offices, the bill requires the parties concerned to conclude transfer-acceptance agreements in connection with government offices within 15 days of the entry into force of the law. In the absence of this, the Government shall decide in a decision on the basis of a submission by the Minister for Public Administration of the appropriations to be transferred. The deadline for the conclusion of transfer-acceptance agreements not involving government offices shall be 31 December 2016. So we must not delay. I am convinced that, given the daily lives of citizens, the various forms of organisation and transformation processes are secondary, whether it is textbook provision, compensation or data registration issues, accessibility, quick and simple administration and expertise are the main aspects. The bill before us enforces these legitimate expectations, fulfilling our basic statutory obligations, increasing the competitiveness of the country, to the satisfaction of all of us. I ask you to support the adoption of the bill. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-09-14-26	I now give the floor to János Harghitai, the lead speaker of the KDNP Group.
u2016-09-14-27	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, It is regulated at the statutory level in Article 15 of the Chapter of the State, that the government is the general body of the executive power and the supreme body of the administration. The government may set up an administrative organisation. Obviously, it also follows from this sentence that it amends this administration system. Article 17 states in the Fundamental Law that the list of ministries is provided for by law. From our point of view, it is now very important to provide that the government's general regional administration is governed by law by the Budapest and County Government Office, and another idea from Article 17: the status of government officials is regulated by law. When the Secretary of State held his expo, he basically went back to the movements that the Orbán government has done in this area since the government took over from socialist governments, and it has been right to go back there because the process that we are part of is what we are now dealing with, this amendment of the law, which we are discussing, can only be interpreted in the light of the whole process. It would be too simplistic to think that the competitiveness of a country can simply be described by economic indicators. Of course, economic indicators are important, but we also know that the functioning of a country's public administration, its size, its bureaucracy and its lack of transparency are limiting competitiveness. So the Orbán government has in time recognised that if it wants to make the country more competitive, it must adapt it to the structure of the public administration. It has also been said, I am just confirming that, at the height of 2008, not only has this country collapsed economically under the direction of the Socialist Government, that collapse for the citizens, it has become apparent to all of us, of course, that citizens have felt less about the raging operation of the state administration, but let's say that local government officials or those operating in this system have also experienced it. However, it is very rare, but in the period of the Socialist Government, this has also happened - my fellow Member referred to the Calvary of the institutional system at the former county level and at that time exercising legal oversight over local governments - before 2010, when the Socialist Government wanted to transform this system, he did this unconstitutionally, which the Constitutional Court pointed out, so for some time no one exercised legal oversight over local governments. It's obviously unthinkable in a rule of law. I'm just saying this as an example of the chaotic conditions that had to be dealt with. It was also obvious to all of us that we have been carrying with us since the change of regime an administrative structure that, on the one hand, the client could not review, it was quite obvious, but sometimes university teachers did not see this too complicated system either. This system had to be changed. The government's ambition was to create as close as possible to customers decision points that the client can easily reach, which the client can review, against which customers, people and businesses will have confidence. There was also a need for order in the administrative jungle, which has also been established since the change of regime, since the governments of that time were fond of installing administrative tasks on the notary of the municipalities. [[10.20]] According to the financial situation of the municipalities, they were able to provide this at different levels, some where they were provided with star sizes and others, because they may not have a properly trained administrator for these tasks. Thus, a kind of profile cleaning had to be established between the local government world and the public administration system, the government represented that the state should perform the tasks in its own organisation system and not build on the municipalities, the local government notaries. The past, quoted here by the Secretary of State, and also by the lead speaker of Fidesz, said that it was a very important step when, at county level, the previous government established the county government offices with the integration of administrative bodies, in a later step, it created district offices, it was an important stage to create government windows, it may still be happening, or it is on its way to the end. We mean the points of administration where the client goes and takes care of his business, not the client wanders around the city in which he works, but the client's files are circling within the public administration's organization, preferably electronically, and the client can handle his affairs in a cost-effective manner. The present proposal will make changes at the level of the main offices, i.e. at the level of central administration. Once again, I refer to what the Secretary of State has repeatedly stressed in his expoze that the government is responsible for shaping the system of administrative organisation, but also has freedom. The substantive decisions were made by the government at its own level, when, after a long consideration of the fate of these 90 institutions, the system was transformed in several steps, it finally decided. This law is practically a kind of technical follow-up to this, so the substantive things do not happen in this law, as a matter of fact, but are already in the government's decisions. The Christian Democratic Group supports the adoption of this amendment because it sees the goal of the government's long-term goal of a changing government administration system that is more customer-friendly, cost-effective and overall more competitive in the everyday life of Hungarian people and Hungarian businesses. In order to do this, out of these 90 central institutions, tasks and powers should go to those involved, whether down to the level of district offices, so that if this is not justified, then to the level of county government offices. Let a profile cleanup take place, law preparation at the height of the ministries, concept creation and not administrative administration, administrative administration should take place at the end of the good sense. That is the point of this amendment, and we are therefore very much in favour of this proposal. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2016-09-14-28	I now give the floor to Mrs Loránt Hegedűs, the lead speaker of the Jobbik Group.
u2016-09-14-29	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, Cut red tape is a good thing. It is a good thing that if the administrative burden of citizens is reduced, the customer burden is reduced, there is no need to go into office so much and a lot of things will just sort themselves out. But is that what this bill is about? This is what the government's intention is about, which we now hear the third speaker speaking about a fantastic utopia, the creation of a good state, is, in fact, the aim of which is to increase the common good, so that reasonableness in public administration can finally be achieved, and so on, we see almost the utopia of an earthly paradise before our eyes. Unfortunately, I think that these extremely noble goals are less reflected in this bill, not to mention that the government's actions so far and beyond do not justify this, and even allow me an example of whether the administrative burden on citizens is reduced. Now is the start of school, in the case of a family with multiple children, if there is a serious administrative burden, this period is a point, because, by the way, certificates that are in the public electronic central registers must be obtained by a mass of the family in order to obtain certain social benefits. These different electronic registers could have been linked in this sense a long time ago, since every year there is a school start, always, every year large families have to obtain these certificates, whereas you have not been able to create this otherwise extremely simple process, which I think can be well supported by rational arguments. I could give you a number of other examples of how much administrative burdens do not decrease on individual customers. In this respect, I cannot mention any changes in the area of construction law, changes in authorisation procedures. Last December, he took a counter-revolutionary step in this regard, let us say, the Orbán government, which he then barely recovered, because it turned out that his incompetence was of such magnitude and so unsuitable that he tried with additional administrative burdens to correct his own wrong, flawed and completely wrong-concepted decision. If we look at this concrete bill, I must say that it is clear that the aim, in contrast to the good, soundy promises, is to reduce the number of people, layoffs and to cut down the system. From the very beginning, this whole story began with a number war, which, if I remember correctly, was triggered by Secretary of State Csepreghy, when he justified the abolition of these background institutions by the fact that about a million people lived so that I wouldn't say that I didn't want to quote him exactly, but that was the point of his speech, that these people were supposed to be loitering on the state's money, and that the other three million workers were supporting this one million unemployed people. Then it turned out that the Secretary of State knew the numbers wrong, and the various trade unions had not been able to tell him who the state apparatus was, what details he had, civil servants, civil servants, state officials, government officials and so on, employees of other state firms. And then the picture sort of settled, but it showed, and it was clear from this that the aim was to achieve layoffs and layoffs. The elimination of the background institutions at the scale and at the rate that you are presenting to us here will clearly result in the loss of basically the customers. So the good state that you are visiting and wanting to create will actually be the damage to your clients. I will give you more examples. The first and most important example, in which it is clearly and clearly proven that customers will see the damage to this transformation, is the fate of OEP. We know that OEP will first be integrated into the National Social Insurance and Family Insurance Office, and then it will be incorporated into the MÁK, and this two-stage system will be fully set up by the end of March next year. Now, where, in some cases, the client would like to be able to act quickly and effectively - because these people are sick and waiting for them to be judged by the OEP, which will have to be imported from abroad, and they do not have time to wait - this office will be beaten up. [[10.30]] You can't, because you simply say to the laws of logic that these people should be treated sooner and faster and better, even because the OEP itself was the cheapest organization in Europe. At a cheaper rate, you will certainly not be able to operate this, but this two-step transition system will certainly only increase the burden of customers and extend the procedures where the most important, the most expensive thing is the time that customers have the least of. Not to mention the fact that OEP will have to change some 20,000 service contracts just because of the name change, these are also completely unnecessary and otherwise very expensive procedures, which really do not make sense, only cause damage, but do nothing good. The other, I think, is a very meaningful transformation linked to the National Film Fund, in Hungarian to Andy Vajna. It will be integrated into the Digital Film Archive, the MaNDA, which you created recently, by the way. Now, this will be lifted immediately, and this opportunity will also be granted to Andy Vajna, so Andy Vajna will, in a sense, become a sovereign in this area as well. It is quite clear that there is no other reason for this; this step cannot be justified for professional reasons, unless by the fact that this is the essence of the fidesz cadre policy, it is not professionalism, but party loyalty that must be promoted. Then we need to talk about the fate of the NFA, which is sad and devastating because why is there no need for a National Land Fund Manager? Because it is no longer practically owned by the nation, the state owns land that this authority is supposed to handle, not even because you recently threw three times a bid on these land and played it over to your own Fidesz-near business. We also need to talk about the Forster Heritage Institute, because earlier, not so long ago, a few years ago, the nation had a nation's national-level, national-level office for the protection of monuments, which not only performed official duties, but also represented a kind of discipline, and was also the owner of a very serious collection. You have taken several steps, but you have come to the end, so far that the germ of this, which you have left behind, this Forster Gyula Heritage Institute will also disappear in the future, surely there will not be any institution of national competence to carry out this task in this way. In fact, I tell you honestly, it is understandable from your point of view, because it was you who changed the sectoral laws, the monument law, so that, for example, due to economic sustainability in monuments, a change of function is justified. Let us give an example immediately, so that everyone can understand what I mean: the castle of Vajnahunyad. The castle of Vajdahunyad will then become the castle of Vajnahunyad. If you do not have a national authority, an institution with authority that represents the profession for right and reason and cannot contradict you, this will be the end. Then there will be another institution that my fellow Member Lajos Kepli will talk about, but it is clear that the purpose of the bill before us is not what you are saying above, but something completely different. But we also need to talk about the fact that you are not going to stop here, and you know very well that there will be a continuation of this setback and wave of layoffs. Today, just for the sake of 37 thousand government civil servants, the advocacy organization is on strike, and the employees of countless municipalities have joined this strike. We know that the IMF dictator, just on Monday, we heard from the Prime Minister that the IMF had been sent, well, it was not possible to send it in its entirety, because the contract that Ferenc Gyurcsány signed with them back in 2008, still determines our daily lives in many respects. For example, with regard to the civil servant's salary fund - HUF 36 850 - or, for example, with regard to the civil servant's pay table, Hungary still carries the Gyurcsány Ferenc-IMF heritage, and that is why in the past, say, 8 years these workers have lost 30 percent of their real earnings. The government doesn't act on their fate by accident, but it doesn't solve this problem by accident, but otherwise it would have been possible. I'll give you a specific example of how to pay their wages at the level that they're demanding today. Let's see. Let's say we bring the question of the stadium in Szombathely. The difference between the estimated engineer and the contractor of the Stadium in Szombathely is exactly as much as the wages of all municipal civil servants could today be increased by 20 percent in net terms and could only be paid from this small margin. But if Andy Vajna were to be deprived of tax benefits or tax avoidance rights, it might not be possible to increase the wages of these people by 20 percent, but by 30 percent. And what awaits these people? It is not only that they are starved out and let these people, by the way, with serious professional experience behind them, voluntarily leave these offices, because in many places these offices cannot be filled, these offices will actually be closed. I can't go to a municipal conference, or I can't sit down at an advocacy association without you talking about the limit of two thousand people so far, so that over two thousand people can only have an independent office for a settlement, they want to raise it up to five thousand people. It would be very, very nice if you could finally take on the Ministry, any department, and say that, yes, that's what we're planning. So he's not just trying to give background, whispering propaganda to the people working there and the city leaders, he's finally trying to say what he thinks. Such a background study has come to light, every ministry denies writing it, yet the municipal transformation is carried out exactly according to the script written in it, and this is included, with respect. So, in that sense, it would be very nice to finally admit what fate you want for these people, for these offices. And then, to get to the end of my speech, you are always talking about making the Hungarian state cheaper, but when you want to touch this huge monolith of public administration at this rate and transform the whole system, it will never be cheaper, it will always be more expensive. There is nothing more expensive in the world than conversion, and it has never been proven here with figures to support what makes this cheaper. One thing will surely make it more expensive for the future, the need for people to travel further away, the need for more administration [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] so not only does the citizen's administrative burden not only increase, but their expenditure will also increase Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of Jobbik and LMP.]]
u2016-09-14-30	I now give the floor to Sallai R. Benedek, the lead speaker of the LMP Group.
u2016-09-14-31	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, We've had a number of debates on this kind of administrative transformation, so please, sometimes I find it a little sensitive, I know what your past is, I know you've worked in it, so forgive or forgive me for not singing praises as opposition politicians for something better, but for finding things that are unsuitable. First of all, I would like to ask the Secretary of State that just a little bit as a lawyer or a lawyer, think about the difference in approach when talking about public administration and government offices. Do you not feel the cultural transformation of something independent of a government, thus independent of politics, from an administrative system, which is supposed to operate on a professional basis and on a legal basis, to a system of government offices when government regulations and government interventions carry out administrative tasks? [[10.40]] If this was done by an MSZP government, which is happening right now, I would be very interested to know what kind of support you would provide for this, or how you would be able to digest it all, because I fear - we have a feeling that we don't have much faith in other governments, and I understand that you trust your own, but forgive me for not doing this, because so, with these modifications, it only seems that there is a goal of firing people, so you can get rid of a lot of people, and obviously this is an attractive opportunity if you want to cut costs. My fellow Member Mrs Loránt Hegedűs mentioned earlier that the state's argument should be made cheaper, while we can see from all the indicators that we did not have such an expensive state in life, which would have provided so many State Secretarys, with so many State Secretary's salaries, with such high ministerial numbers as the Prime Minister's Office or the Ministry of the Prime Minister's Office. There have never been such numbers, there have never been such costs, there have never been so many State Secretarys. And where do you try to live with savings and simplification? Public services available in rural areas and small settlements. Also with a little connection to my fellow Member Mrs Hegedűs Loránt, who said that it would not make life easier for people, let me tell you one thing, too, as living in a settlement where virtually no administration is slow enough to allow everything to be taken to the neighbouring settlements, but there is no transport infrastructure. So there's no normal public transport, there's no road network, and a lot of people can't keep up any Suzuki Swift. How do you reconfigure and centralize something that doesn't have a background? But yesterday I saw an example - I'm sure Mr. Secretary of State knows or may have been there personally -: this 40 million bus started in Csongrád County, and yesterday I was pleased to see that from now on, such buses can take public administration to settlements and take care of all kinds of things locally. I'm gonna wonder how much the bearing and all that stuff is gonna cost the bus. And that wouldn't be a problem if we talked about the fact that in the smallest settlements, in Zala County, and in places where the settlement network consists of such dense, tiny settlements that there are a few hundred settlements under a thousand people a few kilometers apart. But when we start in Csongrád County, where there are agricultural towns, and we have to start there, and in the case of Algyő, in the case of a lot of others, I have a real concern that this will be such an unnecessary measure that it will ultimately depend on the maintenance of Hungary's administrative system. I told you the first aspect I see is clearly that people can be fired. The second thing that's important to me, and please forgive me again, but it's clear that you can cover your tracks. So what's been going on in this country for six years, which is illegal licensing, when there have been completely outlawed processes, can be eliminated. Let me mention, for example, to my smiling pro-government colleagues, such as the privatisation of Lake Balaton, when, with legal authority permissions, we give private individuals 4 hectares to destroy the beaches in the area. And all in order to be able to take on EU support. These were official licenses. The government is covering their tracks now. [[A statement from the Fidesz: Away? How?]] and eliminates the various agencies involved in these filth. And I'll give you some examples. The third - in which, in particular, I have not seen among the authors the name of the Minister of Propaganda, Minister Rogán, because he used to travel in it - is the real estate business. So what follows here is that there will be a lot of real estate released, and with them there will certainly be a trade, which can still be a good business, because many times in frequented places, real estate in good places will be able to be valued. In most cases, we are talking about high-value capital real estate. And then let's look at the proposal itself, in which I was most excited about Annex 1 to the Government Decision, which included the entire system of institutions to be absorbed and eliminated, broken down by ministry. That's what makes me think. Forgive me for the fact that partly because of my profession and partly because of the party's identity, I see the National Inspectorate for Environment and Nature at point 1. It's one of the first ones. This is interesting because I practically agree with you that this OKTVF did not work well. Even ten years ago, even before your regency, the money was loaded with wheelbarrows for a few permits. It was well-known, obviously no one could prove it, but some of the authorisations were clearly the same. Professionalism has been falling for a long time, although you have been able to make it significantly worse, but this OKTVF is a typical example of the fact that, because it did not work well, it is not the solution that should be abolished, but that we should have the central environmental and nature control and authority powers which in Hungary represent the fundamental right of Hungarian citizens to a healthy environment recognised by you in the Fundamental Law. Put this in the Pest County Government Office? Well, that's nonsense. Basically, their entire system, built on two things. The fact that they can't afford and can't put environmental and nature conservation experts everywhere is a matter of fact. The system of county government offices, which has taken over the tasks and powers of the tetevi brakes, namely the environmental and nature protection inspectorates, has now merged into the government offices, as classes, completely destroying the basic decision of the Constitutional Court that has made clear previously that it cannot and must not be reconstructed and dismantled acquired environmental rights. This is also a question for the Constitutional Court at the moment. I will be very, very curious to see how consistent the Constitutional Court will be on this matter. After the change of regime, it has never contributed to the reduction of legislative standards, to the reduction of institutional levels or to the reduction of environmental limits. This was previously a general system in the practice of the Constitutional Court. I'm going to be very curious about what's going to happen in this whole OKTVF shutdown and meltdown. It's one of those symbolic cases for me that you can't fix anything, even though you've been steering for six years, and when you realize you haven't been able to fix it, you will, and you will rather eliminate it, throw it away on the grounds that it's not working, it's not effective, it's not lucky. But obviously, among all the other 73 state institutions, there are quite a few that do not perform official duties, and they are all very interesting. Forgive me, Mr Secretary, for trying to move on a domestic course, so that I do not lose the ground, so we can talk about the institutions under the Ministry of Agriculture in point 2. The first thing you list is the Agricultural Research Institute and the National Agricultural Research Innovation Institute. I also understand that it is said that there is no need for agricultural research in Hungary. I also understand that they say that, well, we put this in the ministry, because until now, it seemed so competent in agricultural matters that it had to be put there. But at these points, please ask the Prime Minister and the Minister for Agriculture to prepare a plan for action on the future of agricultural research. Well, they're gonna end it without a vision. Right now... [[For interventions:]] Well, do the vision first, show us what will happen to Hungarian agricultural research. You say, for example, that this sector is specifically the strategic point in Hungary. They communicate that the future of agriculture is decisive. I agree with you on that. But the removal of all agricultural research and agro-innovation systems without a plan is obviously difficult to digest. Among the options for the termination of the Herman Ottó Institute is that it will then take over the environment Product Nonprofit Kft. I assume that whoever made this proposal has looked at the fact that the tasks and responsibilities of the two have not yet been covered in anything, so the fact that the Institute has carried out much more rural development tasks and has not dealt with environmental products, I believe, is well-known to you. I'm sure it involves sending dozens of people away. The question is, slowly, if people of county party organizations are deployed everywhere, then who will be doing professional work, because this institute, the Herman Otto Institute, was still a workshop where any person, but relatively high-quality work was done, and some of the materials that stood up professionally came out of the institute. In part, I am sorry for that. The succession of the Institute of Geological and Remote Sensitivity will be transferred to the Budapest Government Office. You should know that, but I think most of you know in the benches that this FÖMI determines, let's say, the entire system of Hungarian agricultural support. This is essential in the fact that each farmer who submits agricultural aid and draws these blocks around with an online system can be built on the FÖMI system. This is a specific professional, geological and geographical professional task, the continuous maintenance and continuous change of which also means the registration of Hungary's natural resources. The termination of this means once again a guilty irresponsible act, which I think is completely unacceptable. Nevertheless, perhaps the greatest pain is the termination of the Nébih, the National Food Chain Security Office, and its classification in the metropolitan and county government offices, because this office was one of the last of the FM's members, who had some professionalism, credibility and accepted for society. Nébih is at the moment one of those whose tasks should be maintained just to improve and provide more resources to it. And now for me, two of the funniest and cutest. One is MVH, the Office for Agriculture and Rural Development, and the other is the National Land Fund Management Organisation. If you look back for the last six years of the Hungarian agriculture, you will be aware that most of the filth that is related to Sándor Fazekas and the FM happened in these two. All unauthorized area claims, where there are almost 80 defendants, have been linked to the MVH for the whole playground scandal, the abuse of applications for all EAFRDs, i.e. the European Agricultural and Rural Development Funds. Now they're tearing it apart for four points and tearing it apart. Now I guarantee nothing else will happen except to cover up the signs of the theft. This is an opportunity to completely eliminate the possibility of someone still finding out what happened to EAFRD resources, what happened to area payments, what happened during the past period of the MVH. [[10.50]] For some time now, the MVH has not been a rural development office, but since Csaba Gyuricza was appointed president, he has been attacking opposition politicians as a regular political paratrooper in the context of political communication. So there's been no professional work there for a while. Nevertheless, MVH's regional staff have for a long time provided a fairly high level of system of tendering checks. Eliminating this is criminally irresponsible. The complete elimination of the National Land Fund Management Organisation and the incorporation into the FM is another typical tool to cover a pile of clues, since the Fidesz government has had the very, very ugly and unloved word "Golden Dog" published in the Hungarian public consciousness ever since. Since then, there has been an abuse of the land application system, since political partiality has appeared in all the tendering systems, and this has been crowned by the free robbery called land privatisation, the programme for rich people, which has been supported by relatively many people, which has been difficult to agree with. To assist in these processes, I have just made constructive proposals on a previous agenda on how to support a government proposal. This is what cannot be guaranteed at the moment. And especially in cases where it appears to be possible to prepare, let's say, the concept of administrative development. I see this at the Hungarian Mining and Geological Office, where there is no future at present, but it is said that the Minister for National Development will prepare it on 1 January 2017. I'm asking you to bring this back when we see these. If we know what will happen to the system of professional offices and institutions of Hungary, then perhaps it will be possible to discuss it on its merits. Until then, all this is just a tool for a small-time real estate business, sending people away and covering the tracks of corruption cases, so, to my knowledge, the LMP faction will not support this. Thank you for the floor, Mr President. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2016-09-14-32	This brings us to the end of the keynote speeches. I'm asking if anyone else wants to comment. Yeah, there's an applicant. Congressman Lajos Kepli asks for a two-minute word. You have the floor.
u2016-09-14-33	Thank you very much, Mr. President. My fellow Member, Mr Benedek, has already said some of the position on green power, and I broadly agree with what he said about integrating the national green authority into the government office. We do not agree with him, nor do we agree with the downsizing of the Green Authority system for the past six years. I'm sure you'll tell me in your closet that this doesn't weaken the organizational system, as you always say, but that's not what we're experiencing in reality. It is true that the national green authority has not been a significant body since the election of its leaders on a political basis. In the past, there were very good professional leaders of the national green authority, but recently there, as everywhere else, there were times when decisions were made on a strong political basis. Of course, we could not support this, and we cannot now. The fact that the second degree comes to the government office after the first green authority is already a sign of a weakening of further interest. It is clear from the government's policy that the Green Authority and this entire institutional system are more of an obstacle than a meaningful task, and it could contribute substantially to the protection of the environment and nature, despite the fact that there are very well-trained workers at these offices who are very eager to do their job. But the supreme decisions are always made at political level, and somewhere there is the elimination and politicisation of these decisions. The Constitutional Court has also decided on this. The principle of environmental protection is also that it cannot be weakened at the level already achieved in the institutional system. We are protesting about this. Thank you. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2016-09-14-34	I give the floor to State Secretary Zoltán Kovács.
u2016-09-14-35	Mr President, Dear fellow Members, I asked for the floor in the debate because some things have to be clarified, which, I think, gave rise to a misunderstanding, at least that is what I have concluded from the speeches. The list of all organisations does not mean that all organisations are transformed or eliminated. I have already said that about half of what is included in this bill. I forgive my fellow Member, Mr Róbert Sallai, for living in agriculture, for dealing with it and not for legal issues. But because the LMP fraction is small, so there, as a small farmer once said, everyone has to be polyester, so you have to be a polythorax, and you have to know a little bit about everything. That's why I want to help you with this case. The very organisations in which we talk about strategic issues, such as mining, are not under review. We have to prepare the concept this year until January, and then the organizational system. So what you're asking is not in the bill, but it's just that it's concept and then the organizational system. The same is true of agricultural research. We're not gonna start hitting on agricultural research. Make a concept for the research institutes, the FM until October 1 - this has been happening for quite a few months since June - and then we will touch the organization. Secondly, the task does not disappear in the world, my honourable fellow Member, but we have defined the backbone of the system. The Ministry should focus on strategy and codification, and should not have to deal with administrative matters or appeals by the Central Steering Organisation or the Ministry. This is the main backbone of the system. That should be arranged by the regional administration. [[Dr. János Latorcai, vice-president of the Parliament, takes the chair.]] I would like to say that by exhausting an appeal right in the administration of the state, the case is not over yet, but there is another extraordinary remedy, which is the court itself. That's where everything that's independent of the government comes to an end. That is what I wanted to clarify with respectable fellow Members at the very beginning.
u2016-09-14-36	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I would like to welcome my fellow Members. Mr Sallai R. Benedek is now due for a two-minute speech.
u2016-09-14-37	Thank you very much, Mr Secretary of State, for your speech. I find it fundamentally commendable when they are involved in the debate and do not close their various distasteful opinions. Thank you for that, and I appreciate it. Because I'm not a legal expert, I've been spared by the good Lord, let me tell you, as far as we can see, the T/11907. Legislative proposal No 1312/2016 on measures for the revision of the Ministries' Background Institutions in the form of central offices and budgetary bodies. It shall carry out the functions of institutional mergers as defined in Government Resolution No 1. Where this does not happen at a legislative level, I will follow the Secretary of State and we will see the strategy. At the same time, weird Secretary of State's argument is to address strategic issues in ministries, not public administration. Compared to this, the Türr István Training Institute is merged into the Ministry of Human Resources. The National Center for Patient Rights, Welfare, Children's Rights and Documentation will be merged into the Ministry of Human Resources. I'll save you the trouble of going through all of them, but there's a lot of stuff that melts into the ministries. So it is quite contrary to the process that you have said that the Ministry will deal with strategy, legislation and codification. No, there's a lot of professional work going on with the Ministries that they've been independent professional organizations up to now. And thank you for not responding to my corruption charges, because that part of my speech was political, but the part of it is already professional, that there are a lot of tasks in the neck of ministries that have been provided by professionals who have so far been dedicated to it. This is one of the professional concerns as to whether this is the right direction. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[11.00]]
u2016-09-14-38	Thank you very much, Congressman. A two-minute speech will be held by Mr János Harghitai. Here you go, Congressman.
u2016-09-14-39	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I asked for the floor for Congressman Benedek Sallai's keynote speech. He soon recorded in his first sentences as an opposition representative that he could not love what the government represents, and expressed his view that there was a public administration at some point, which was professional, it was lovable and it was good, but what is happening now is quite different. Now, Congressman, just so you can see clearly what you have done as a beloved administration, many of us have worked in it, and the state has dominated it, of course. I started my speech by recording that the government is the general body of the executive apparatus and the supreme body of the administration. So we can call it public administration, which is basically dominated by the state. When we use the category of public administration, we think of public administration and municipal administration at the same time, the very strong part of which has always been the state administration. I argued how rational it was to have a profile cleanup in this regard. The State shall not carry out its duties on behalf of the notary who can or cannot do it. I am not questioning the powers of the notary, I am questioning the possibilities of the municipalities. Some have been able to employ an appropriate specialist, others have not been able to employ a specialist. So this profile cleanup was done in this respect, too, that the state took the responsibility into its own hands. But just because you didn't fully distance yourself from the administration, or what you mean by law, doesn't mean you can believe that's true, as I'm telling you here. And I simply don't understand your reasoning that because this organizational system is changing somewhat, why files are disappearing, which you constantly assume. Why is this procedure good for disappearing files, it's a mystery to me, I couldn't figure out the meaning of your argument. [[It's a rare round of applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-09-14-40	Thank you very much, Congressman. I would like to ask my fellow Members if anyone else would like to speak in the debate. Mr Sallai R. Benedek asked for the floor again. Here you go, Congressman.
u2016-09-14-41	Thank you for the floor. I would like to respond to my fellow Member in just one minute. I understand the arguments, and I accept that. Nevertheless, in practice, I see between the administration system and the government administration system that they were professionals in one place and local politicians close to the government in the other. So that's part of why I distinguish the two. And the other thing is, you're absolutely right. I've had the pleasure of working for the local government as an administrator, an official, a performer. You are absolutely right that there was a long time ago a system where they could and could not comply. But now most of them just can't live up to it. That's the problem. So far, at least there was a place where they knew how to do it, and now there are more and more people who can quote... concrete resolutions. If you look at Parliament's website, you'll find a lot of these when state offices, professional organizations, say, write about a dam building that it doesn't have an environmental impact when they say that it doesn't disappear by plowing a lawn. Forgive me again for reaching home from an environmental point of view, but that's the kind of thing that pisses me off most of the time. Please, I do not wish to generalise at the moment, so I respectfully apologize to all those working in the Hungarian administration, but there are specific cases where the system has moved towards dilettantism. For some reason, this can always be seen in large investments, and in many cases in key government investments. Obviously, the traceability of this is that there is slowly no administrator in the government agency system who would dare to say, "No, that can't be done, that's not legal." It's the weeding of these people from the system who dared to say that, and that's what I miss most, I'm looking for. That's what would be very good if you didn't go this way. Thank you for the floor, Mr President.
u2016-09-14-42	Thank you very much, Congressman. Again, I would like to ask my fellow Members if anyone else would like to speak in the debate. [[There's no candidate.]] I do not see an application; the general debate is closed. I will ask the rapporteur if he wishes to reply now, specifically at the end of the debate. [[For signal:]] Yes, I give the floor to Secretary Zoltán Kovács. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2016-09-14-43	Mr President, Dear fellow Members, A number of questions have been raised, which are not relevant, and I would like to respond to some of them. But as far as the substance of the proposal is concerned, I think it is safe to say that the freedom of the government to organise is unlimited, the Fundamental Law sets the framework for this, and the laws which we have jointly adopted in the Parliament. These organizations, which we're talking about here today, have once grown out of ministries. We now say, first of all, that, from the point of view of governance, the governing units of these organisations will be returned to the ministries with the same people working in the public administration. Which is the day-to-day work of official procedures, and that is done in the territorial administration. I do not share the view that travelling further and the procedure will be more expensive, on the contrary. In a central administration or central budgetary body, if, say, in a second-degree procedure, we name environmental protection, we had to come much further, we had to come to the capital, and now this will take place in many procedures at the district seat or the county government office or, in most cases, when the districts are strengthened, at the districts. This is an important and fundamental issue in this case. Mrs. Loránt Hegedűs talked about the administrative reduction. In this case, the maintenance obligation, which is included in social care or public education, must be split into two, and the administrative activity is independent. That's what we're talking about here today on the bill. I therefore think that this comment is really important. This is what the government itself is working on with various EU resources; it is noted that in the context of the operational programme for the development of public administration, so that the various sectoral systems developed in the public administration itself can be connected for many decades, and that the system itself can function more effectively, so that an administrator at the level of a territorial administration does not look at three computers, not ask for telephone help, but can use these specialized systems in his work with just one click. Was the construction permit procedure counter-revolutionary or not? From the point of view of cutting red tape, I think that there is no need to apply for a building permit up to 300 square meters for a new building instead of a previous building permit procedure, it was a revolutionary, not counter-revolutionary step. So there is much less administrative burden for a builder. It also appears, in consultation with the Architect Chamber, the professionalism, as the responsibility of the designer and foreman appears in the form of a professional at all construction sites. But by the way, it's not the subject of the motion. I would like to protect you, not just because you are sitting next to me, Mr. Secretary of State Csepreghy; what Mrs. Hegedűs said was that my colleague, Secretary of State Csepreghy, would have touched on the public servants with humiliating and similar terms. On the contrary, he said that the Hungarian State is supporting around one million state employees in public companies, public administration, atypical organisations, and I mean the prosecutor's office and the court, and he intends to rationalise this not in six months, not in a year, but, as can be seen in the international world, adapted to it, continuously, rationally and in a normal way in this European Union cycle. But this is not the subject of this proposal either. The fact that the customers see this rationalization harmed or not: I say so, and my fellow members of the government said that public administration would be closer to the customers. Think about it: there was a whole weird organization, regional administration offices. They gathered three counties together and had offices in the counties, by the way. For a year and a half, Mr János Harghitai referred to it, there was no judicial control of the municipalities as a result. There's a county or district level today. Closer, you might say, the only thing left is if we move into their property, then we're closer to the citizens. [[11.10]] It was about the OEP. One of the most important strategic steps of this proposal is Professor Mészáros, Director General of the ONYF, who says that the payment from the crib to the coffin should be in one place for one citizen, all payments from the same person to the same organization. This is one of the most important strategic steps in the transformation. As far as the fund manager is concerned, and our fellow Member Enikő Hegedűsné is not here now, but obviously his fellow factions tell him that the fund manager remains, so what he thinks is a waste - this is an important strategic step for all Hungarian citizens. And why the Treasury? Because the Treasury is the state paying agency. So it's a treasury payout, but the professionals stay in the same place. The OEP intends to remain with more than 700 people today, according to preliminary negotiations. It's a pretty big organization, by the way, I think, and it's not exactly about breaking up. The NFA: I would say to the Member that the National Land Fund Management Organisation is listed as the end of the programme for farmers, or the merger with the Ministry of Agriculture. But this program is not over, the leases, the leases, the bidding systems below 3 hectares continue to take place. [[Sallai R. Benedict intervenes.]] As they say to us, Congressman, the bidding will cease, so that the programme section of the "Earth for the farmers" will be completed, with which some 250 thousand hectares of farmers, not large farmers, so I am glad that all 10,000 large farmers in Hungary, by the way - our fellow citizens, by the way, took place on public bidding in the presence of the notary. Therefore, any claim that goes against it is, I think, false. As far as the areas are concerned, you know very well, Mr President, that there are 1.8 million hectares of land and forests still in Hungary, and only 10 percent of that has been sold. If what my colleague Mrs Hegedűs says is true, that there is no wage increase because of the Gyurcsány-IMF agreement, then how the hell could the teacher's career be introduced, how the hell could the wage increase be made by the soldiers, the police, the state officials or now the medical staff? And I don't want to take the debate to this point, but it was mentioned in the local government world: after about half of the official affairs were transferred to the districts, along with the employee, so with the professional who worked at the local government earlier, the number of local government workers increased by thousands after the task had left. So how do we talk about this pay issue? Or that if it is true that this is prohibited by the IMF agreement, then why have the municipalities otherwise taken decisions that there are 10-15 or 20 thousand higher salaries? Even today, it can be detected, which we're looking at right now. But that's not part of the debate on the bill either. What I would like to respond to is: the FÖMI is a part of the real estate world, it has a number of tasks, the spatial data base and the rest, and Congressman Sallai obviously knows that it will now be in one hand, it will not cease, we will not send people away, but the real estate register, which is so to say at the end, in the districts or districts and in the county government offices, is a central organization, a central government office, so that the whole property-related system will be in one hand, and it will not be necessary to provide data to the state from the FÖMI, but can be treated in one hand in a uniform manner. And professional management remains with the FM. The Nébih will not cease either, because it had its ministry branch in the same way, its controlling part will be in the FM, and the Nébih will work there at the end, in the district offices and in the government offices. They control, they carry out those official activities, there will be no change, only the central authority activity will be closer to the citizens. What I can say about the MVH is that by taking it apart, the Member says he has been under double or even triple control, but this must all go through the accreditation of the European Commission. We say that the control and preparatory bodies at territorial level should be integrated into a single system, a system of government offices, and that the management part should be added to the two agricultural management bodies. And the organization that you are here, I am not going to repeat what signs of corruption you have in the area of corruption will cease in such a way that the paying place, which is most important to farmers, will also be at the Treasury, at a single paying place. I would like to confirm that this requires the accreditation of the Union. I seem to have answered most of the specific questions. Now with the castle of Vajdahunyad, there is no Enikő here, I do not wish to deal with it, but I will be able to talk to him about it, if that is the most important thing. I answered the strategic questions. I have answered the OEP issue, the treasury issue, agriculture, research, strategic issues and the structure of the system itself. We believe that, on the one hand, citizens are drawn closer to the administrators of cases, on the other hand, there are clear and predictable powers as to who is responsible, not a wide-ranging, over-growing system of organisations, and, on the other hand, organizational systems are no longer in place, otherwise the regulations established for them are obviously unnecessary, because there is a system of organisations that we have created regulations for over many decades. This will simplify the regulatory system itself. Therefore, I would like to draw the attention of my fellow opposition Members to the fact that this is partly a technical amendment, obviously it has some substance in it, to consider whether they support this proposal in the light of what I have said. I trust that this will be the case in the future. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-09-14-44	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, The amendments may be submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. Dear Parliament, Next up is the 2007 LXXXVI on electricity. General discussion of the bill amending the law until closure. The government referral is T/19101. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, I give the floor to Mr Nándor Csepreghy, State Secretary of the Prime Minister's Office, rapporteur of the item on the agenda, in a 30-minute time frame. Here you go, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor.
u2016-09-14-45	Mr President, Thank you very much for the floor. I would also like to welcome honourable Members for the start of substantive debates in the autumn session. I think that the negotiation of such a bill may bring with it a little more professionalism and less politics, because neither political party has the stimuli to put wordings in such a professional debate due to the high number of viewers, which is much more a demonstration of political affiliation than a demonstration of professional knowledge. Therefore, allow me to deny the suggestion that I will probably hear from the opposition that the government is consistently trying to destroy green energy and represents its position against renewable energy sources, because the evidence of this is the agreement signed with the European Community that the share of renewable energy sources in total energy consumption will increase to 14.65 percent in Hungary by 2020, i.e. until the end of this current development cycle. The bill, which we are here to discuss today, essentially amends the law on electricity. If this bill is approved with the support of the Parliament, then the construction and use of wind farms and wind farms of industrial size will be regulated in a government decree, and the amendment of the law would prohibit the construction of such installations in the world heritage and nature conservation areas. [[11.20]] The proposal, we believe, is one proof of professional rationality, and if you look back on the debates or the news that took place in the last few weeks before the beginning of the parliamentary session, for example, in German energy policy, you will also be confronted with the issues of this dilemma in this respect. When the amending proposal was put on Parliament's website, occasional green politicians came to their heads among Members of Parliament, but it is very important to inform them of a few facts, before this conviction is made up of other areas until another parliamentary debate, that the performance of wind power plants in domestic electricity generation represents around 1-2 percent of total electricity production, and the criteria that I think all parliamentary parties rightly consider to be their own, which concerns job creation, are very little or no part of this type of investment. There is also a reason why in Hungary there has been no wind power plant built in Hungary in the previous regulatory system for more than 10 years, and private investors who have been authorised to build different wind power plants in Hungary in recent years have not built up these capacities, for which, I repeat, they had a permit, for which there was also a reason. There are problems in terms of technology, economy and landscape protection in relation to wind power plants, which I would like to mention in detail below. The growing need for electricity in Hungary is clearly demonstrated by the use data, as, for example, in 2015, last year, the country's electricity consumption amounted to 43.75 terawatts, which is 3 percent higher than in 2014 compared to previous years. What's the most important question here? How can a state, through the energy system, ensure the possibility of producing or providing balanced, reliable and predictable electricity for the population and industrial production? How can the State guarantee, in addition to the ever-increasing expansion of renewable energy sources, that the country's competitiveness, whether in relation to industrial production or in terms of reducing the cost of living per month for the population, or that this aspect is compatible with the line that the government has been able to understand as measures in terms of green energy or environmental protection? The electricity grid operates in an absolutely unbalanced, unreliable and hectically variable system for wind power plants. The main reason for this is that wind power plants also have the possibility to operate effectively in the event of different environmental or environmental conditions being put together. Hungary is a country with less good potential in this regard, but there are indeed positive opportunities for Hungary to break out in terms of other renewable energy sources. Just think of solar energy as an opportunity that is still not fully exploited today, or, where appropriate, the opportunities offered by biomass, and we could still talk about waste processing and so on. Perhaps the key word on the whole issue is predictability, so how can the state integrate energy generated by renewable energy sources or wind power plants as optimally as possible into the entire network system and how it can eliminate the periods when these units do not produce energy, and in this case, the classical power plant capacities must be activated. On the one hand, wind power plants need more and more conventional power generation modes alongside themselves, the operation of which is a very significant cost, and on the State's side, because of the mandatory take-over, an additional burden which ultimately has to be paid by citizens. It is also a talkative number that if we consider wind power plants built in Hungary to be 100 units, only 23 percent of these 100 units will be exploited in Hungary, so only 23 percent of the existing wind power plants in Hungary will be used. This is not a coincidence because they have been built in areas with potentials where the capacity to operate wind power plants is thus available. In 2015, this meant that only 73 megawatts of electricity were actually produced from wind power plants capable of delivering or producing 330 megawatts. Thus, the planned rate of production and actual output differ significantly. It is the task of the state, to which billions of forints need to be spent. Therefore, it can be clearly stated, and I think that this profession agrees that the cost of switching off and decommissioning wind power plants is the highest of the renewable energy sources available in Hungary or available to Hungary. At such times, it is always fashionable to refer to Germany, France or Denmark as to how well these stories work there. Then let's see what's in these countries. For example, how much does energy cost per resident, say, in Germany, and what does this look like in Hungary? With the state dotation system that operates in Germany, a German citizen pays 29,5 cents for a kilowatt hour of electricity. This means that it is 91.45 HUF at the current forint exchange rate. In Hungary, on the other hand, a Hungarian national pays 11.5 euro cents for the same amount of electricity, which corresponds to 35.65 HUF. Another very important issue is that the more we build up this type of capacity, which, as a result of the Hectic power generation, must produce balancing capacity in a classic power plant form, the additional costs of this increase. So the commitment to increase the share of renewable resources from 9.5% to 14.65 by 2020, we believe that we will deliver and we believe that we will achieve as cost-effectively as possible that the country invests in renewable energy sources that are truly operating much more efficiently in Hungary than wind power plants. From this point of view, it is not energy, but perhaps from an architectural or landscape perspective it is not less important that these wind power plants do not fit in either the built or the natural environment of Hungary. And when we talk about the modernisation of energy production, perhaps these aspects should also be taken into account. In conclusion, I would like to say that the Hungarian Government's commitment to raising renewable energy sources is not questionable. We hear the accusations from the LMP Members that energy policy has not been well thought out [[Sallai R. Benedict: That's how it's gonna be!]] For example, Paks enlargement is unnecessary because this could be replaced by renewable energy capacities. That's why I'm going to advance the attack professionally. This raises only one number pair, and if someone is in the position that, for example, these investments, which can serve security of supply and the constantly increasing needs, are not necessary, because this can be resolved with renewable energy production capacities, I would also ask the Member to highlight the approximately 13 000 billion difference that should be made in the case of the investment in Paks and in the case of the same amount of energy produced from renewables, so the 13 000 billion HUF difference between the two investment costs is taken from where. Mr President, I have been trying to collect these as the opening thoughts of the debate. I trust we will be part of a productive debate. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]] [[In the notary seat István Ikotity will be replaced by Dezső Believing.]]
u2016-09-14-46	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, The main speaker's speeches will now take place within a 15-15-minute time frame. First of the Fidesz Group, I give the floor to Congressman Tamás László.
u2016-09-14-47	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, The bill before us strengthens the rules for the construction of wind power plants in order to achieve more effective protection of natural property and private property than is currently the case. The legal amendment is justified by the network security disadvantage of wind power plants that their performance depends to a large extent on the current weather and that this power variation can only be offset by changing the performance of other control power plants operating on the network. Therefore, the capacity of wind power plants that can be connected to the national network should be regulated. Under the current law, the Hungarian Energy and Utility Regulatory Office can apply for new production capacities. The bill before us, on the other hand, gives the government the power to determine the number of official permits to be issued for the construction and use of wind or wind farms in a given calendar year and the level of performance of eligible wind or wind farms. [[11.30]] The proposal lays down a 60-day administrative deadline for the designated administrative authority to examine the specific issues related to environmental, natural, urban development and urban planning impacts involved in the construction authorisation procedure and the authorisation procedure for the use of wind power plants or wind farms. The draft also states that the permit for the construction of the wind power plant will be repealed if the building permit is not built or the construction works permanently removed within one year of its rise to legal force. In addition, wind power plants cannot be set up under the proposal for the 2011 World Heritage LXXVII. LIII of 1996 on the protection of nature. in a protected natural area as defined by law. Later wind power plants will be available by tender. For domestic renewable energy policy objectives, it is essential to take account of Hungary's natural conditions. The modernisation of energy production, the protection of nature and the landscape, in our view, requires a solution that ensures the necessary energy production in the long term, while preserving natural and landscape values and areas, and that these aspects should also be taken into account when designing wind power plants. Dear House, After describing the content of the bill, allow me to draw attention to some important aspects in the context of energy policy. Of course, the strategic debate on the direction to be taken in energy policy, which technology serves energy security better and cheaper, more remotely than this proposal. There is no way to avoid talking about the role of nuclear power here, because the starting point is that the government voted in favour of it in the first place; and, of course, we also intend to play an important, but fundamentally complementary, role for renewable energy. As Government Commissioner Attila Aszódi has repeatedly stressed, it is first of all necessary to note that the share of electricity imports in Hungary is increasing year after year, which currently accounts for one third of electricity consumption, while consumption is increasing. Despite this, fewer domestic power plants are producing, which will require some 7,000 megawatts of new capacity by 2030 in order to meet consumer needs safely. With the necessary new capacity, the Paks II. Its blocks will only represent 2,400 megawatts of power, so a further 4,600 megawatts of new, renewable, gas-powered and other power plants will need to be provided for safe supply. It is also not possible to ignore the fact that 27 percent of European electricity generation is produced by power plants and 14 nuclear reactors are already available from 27 Member States because of previous 28 or Brexit. There are huge benefits to security of supply and climate protection that these plants produce 24 hours a day. It is also clear that renewables cannot compete with nuclear energy without aid. Germany, often regarded as an example, spends more than EUR 20 billion each year to support renewables, with two blocks of Paks to be built twice a year. Currently, there is a renewable technology in Germany that is converted to 150 HUF/kilowattor. While the German small consumer buys electricity at a price of slightly more than HUF 90 per kilowattor, Hungarians can buy it at HUF 36 per kilowattor. It can be seen, therefore, that the large German renewable aid has very harsh effects, a serious distortion of the market, and the Commission is increasingly calling for these renewable aids to be driven out of the system by the countries over time. Nuclear power and wind power are two very different technologies. Nuclear power is for a core power plant, which is physically inadequate for wind or solar energy. Solar and wind energy are very weather-dependent technologies, and large amounts of electricity are unsolved and limited storage is difficult and expensive. That is why we would like the nuclear power plant to be a core power plant, as the Czechs, the French, the Finns, the British, the Americans, the Russians, the Ukrainians, the Romanians, the Slovaks want. It is no coincidence that the national energy strategy adopted at the end of 2011 clearly paves the way for maintaining the capacity of the Paks Nuclear Power Plant and the construction of the two new blocks and the energy mix. I would also like to say that, during the expansion project of the Paks Nuclear Power Plant, Hungary is acting in line with EU energy policy, as the European Commission is also counting on maintaining nuclear production capacity in the future. In addition, our country intends to meet the share of renewable energy required by the European Union. Dear House, I therefore think that the bill before us is also part of a responsible energy strategy, which gives the government the opportunity to implement an energy policy that is best suited to national interests. In view of this, I ask that you support the proposal. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-09-14-48	Thank you very much, Congressman. The lead speaker of the MSZP Group is Mr István Józsa. Here you go, Congressman.
u2016-09-14-49	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, It seems from the speeches that have been made so far, especially from the rapporteur's speech by the Secretary of State, that there have been no unfounded concerns that have projected that this bill is not about increasing government commitment to renewable energies. Now I've put it very nicely; some say that the Orbán government is directly anti-renewable. This was offset by the rapporteur's reference to the commitment signed with the Union, which states that we increase the share of renewables to 14.65 per cent of the energy mix from 9.5 per cent, which is why it should be done. I will explain later that we are not approaching, but rather moving away from this share, to achieve this. There is truth in the details of their argument, so the truth is that a country, Hungary, also needs a nuclear power plant, needs a base power plant. The two large power plants, the Paks, are still in operation, are 2000 megawatt nuclear power plants, and the Mátra power plant, which is based on domestic lignite, also has nearly 2000 megawatts. So, if you could believe the approach that you put forward in the title of your proposal to maintain the capacity of the Paks Nuclear Power Plant, then that might not be such a problem. The problem is that it is not certain that you can believe this, especially in the light of the fact that you are not doing anything to expand renewable energies. [[11.40]] For example, there is METAR, a system to support renewable energy production, and the profession has been waiting for this for more than five years. It started with the abolition of cogeneration as an industry in Hungary by a single vote on 16 March 2011. A thousand billion dollars of wealth... - just as the Secretary of State said, 12 000 billion investment differences would be needed if someone wanted to cover the needs of renewables, so there you destroyed 1000 billion of assets with a law, demorated, and about 1000 megawatts of cogeneration capacity, which, let's say, did not amount to much money, 50 billion forints of imported gas per year, but still, 50 billion forints of imported gas could be saved annually by cogeneration. You were not very sensitive to these, you were eliminated by a stroke of a pen, although this was a European trend, and you cannot even say that it was the invention of the socialists, because the law that allowed this was adopted by Parliament in 2001 at the time of the first Orbán government, perhaps the problem was a broad consensus. I'm not sure you like the consensus, because then your primacy is in doubt that if anyone else agrees with you, there's going to be something wrong. The legislative proposal makes it possible, after a long study, to draw up the regulations, from which nothing can yet be seen, that there may be a window-wind power plant investment that appears to have been carried out after certain calls for proposals, but that is also a question. In essence, the bill is another example of the fact that the Orbán government is not a supporter of renewable energy sources, but is specifically against them. The measure fits in with the government's energy policy; therefore, it is not the advertised one, because the declared energy policy is very nice. But what is being achieved from this is far from as bright as it is, there is no place for renewables, there is a crucial role in this, the energy supply based on Russian gas and nuclear energy, and what is becoming increasingly critical from a security of supply point of view, which was also mentioned in the previous comment, is a one third import ratio exceeding the previous period. This, if we are thinking about a regional regulatory system, is not such a big problem. So what I am saying is that the future is a regional regulatory system, at least covering the V4, which is extended with Austria, similar to the Nordic electricity supply system, so it will not only be the task of MAVIR to regulate these waves, but also that a regional coordinated operation can do this much more economically. I think this is the future. The problem is that this is not what they do in the development of the V4 cooperation agreements, but also in other moods. We see that the real aim of the regulation is to strengthen government control of future projects in wind power plants, a kind of decisive centralisation. This means that investors in wind power plants that are dear to the government will be able to win, to build wind power plants, but we do not think that this will be significant capacity. The government may be able to show new wind power investments to the EU, from the supported clientele, while other operators are very doubtful whether this option will be available. The fact that the regulation significantly reduces areas where such an investment can be made does not help potential future wind power investments; in Hungarian, where wind blows, it is relatively predictable, but the area does not belong to protected natural or world heritage areas. Let's just say the world heritage isn't so significant, so if we take this out of the construction sites, it's really acceptable. But the reason for this is very doubtful, as it was said that the wind power plant is a foreigner. Well, consider the example of the Netherlands. They've been building wind farms there for 500 years, in today's sense, they used to say windmills, windmills, wind pumps. The Netherlands has become a symbol of windmill, symbol of ingenuity, diligence, man's ability to shape natural opportunities for his own benefit. So you're saying the wind farm is a foreigner? I'm saying it the other way around. If you see a wind farm, you can see that people living there are committed to renewable energy production. In fact, it is a good feeling that energy is produced here, not by smoky chimneys, through pollution of the environment, but by clearly using clean resources. So, in our view, it's the opposite of the way they're trying to reason with him. [[István Ikotity replaces the gullible Dezső in the notary seat.]] The Orbán government has committed to achieving a renewable energy ratio of 14.65 instead of the 13 percent Hungarian task expected in the European Union by 2020. In principle, implementation is still possible, but it did not have to start from zero, since in 2013 the share of renewable energy in total energy consumption was 9.8 percent, including the share of renewable electricity in domestic production increased from 0.8 per cent in 2003 to 7.3 per cent in 2010, i.e. nearly ten times. However, by 2012 and 13 the share of renewable electricity, while the national electricity consumption was still decreasing, even within that period, decreased to 6.3 percent, i.e. from 7.3 percent in 2010 to 6.3 percent in the electricity sector in 2012 and 6.7 percent in 13, i.e., the share of renewables developed. This is in any case a reduction in the growth target. Thus, the fulfilment of both mandatory and voluntary objectives would require significant government incentives in the future. So we would like to encourage the government to include regulatory elements that will help to produce renewable energy, including wind energy, when it comes to developing the details of this rather framework regulation today. I agree with what you said here, Mr Secretary, that 23 percent is the actual factor of utilisation, because the wind doesn't blow so much, and sometimes it has to be regulated, the system can't pick up, and there is also such a quantitative barrier. I was at a renewable energy conference in Dublin, when one Saturday afternoon we were shown in the freight distribution that we just crossed the 100 percent, the last gas turbine we could shut down. It was a windy Saturday afternoon, with a capacity built in wind wheels that enabled this, namely, wind power plant capacity was built to 110 per cent of the national demand. [[11.50]] On a windy Saturday afternoon, the country's electricity supply was only solved by wind power. There is, therefore, an example of this in the European network, and it should not be shut down, but rather use technological developments to make it more economical and cheaper. I am very sorry that the Secretary of State did not mention the Hungarian potential of the earth's heat among the domestic renewable energy opportunities. It is very right for the government to think about the greater use of solar energy, the energy use of waste, i.e. the energy use of already selected and final waste, it is certain that biomass also offers opportunities, but the continuously available domestic energy source, regardless of the time of day, can be the mining of earth's heat. I do not want to devalue these heat pump solutions, but the aim in terms of energy would be to mine the earth's heat from more than 2,500 metres in length, with high enthalpity, which can be used for both electricity generation and district heating. There is a 1:5, 1:6 rule here; if there was a 200-300 megawatt electric power plant built here in Budapest, its waste heat or by-product district heating heat could take away the entire district heating in Budapest, extremely economically. I think we should think about these. The Secretary of State asked what source to make this happen, because it costs more than the conventional gas plant investment. EU funds can be found for these purposes. And I would also like to say that there is a great deal of money in the world now, so that if long financing contracts of 10-15-20 years were concluded for renewable energy production now, it would be quite cheap to obtain funds. The banking world likes to finance renewable energy, because there is already the view that renewables are the future. I would also like to point out once again to the government that renewables are the future, so that they will adopt legislation. Thank you, Mr. President.
u2016-09-14-50	Thank you very much, Congressman. The lead speaker of the Jobbik Group is Mr Lajos Kepli. Here you go, Congressman.
u2016-09-14-51	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, It is a very regrettable role, at least for the Secretary of State, that he has to take on a kind of modern-day windmill fight as a modern-day Don Quixote here in Parliament. [[Demercation from the benches of opposition parties.]] I think that Jobbik cannot be accused of pursuing a blinded energy policy in any direction, either blindly pro-nuclear or blindly pro-renewable. We have always tried to create our own energy strategy with a healthy consensus, which, in our opinion, can accommodate both. And we must not confront these two things that have happened here again, and obviously will happen even during the debate, when we say that whoever supports nuclear energy does not support renewables, and vice versa. They're both in the system. As has already been said, we need core power plants and we need renewables. Renewables must, of course, be regulated and regulatory capacity of sufficient magnitude should be available, and no one will dispute that. But in addition, the share of renewables must continue to evolve. And, among other things, the solar energy, which the Secretary of State praised, also needs to be regulated, is also not a base power plant. In this respect, Jobbik, I think that he has always pursued a consistent policy, and we have even said that controlable power plant capacities can also be created, the capacities in the Hungarian energy mix at the moment are not or are very small, such as hydropower, the use of hydropower, which is typically an energy source that is suitable for regulation, since it would be possible to create control capacities. Of course, this cannot be compared by magnitude with a 2,400 megawatt nuclear power plant investment or even with a lignite plant in Mátra, but the future is definitely renewable. And moving towards the future also means that we cannot exclude any renewable energy source that could be considered in Hungary at the moment, and which still has free exploitation capacity, because there is also wind energy. This was shown by a study of government orders, perhaps in 2012, which said that the current capacity could be built in as much as 3-4 times as much as possible under the current network conditions, without the Hungarian electricity grid seeing this damage and without it being regulated. And yet, in 2010, when the second Fidesz government came to power, the process of licensing stopped, and no wind power plant investment has been made since then. The Secretary of State mentioned, if I recall correctly, that he or the Fidesz lead speaker, that there were permitted areas where investments were not made later. And we agree that once upon a time, it was customary to obtain a permit for the creation of wind power plant capacity, where the investment did not actually take place, it was just a sort of land reservation. It's really not a useful thing. And I might even be able to support that in the proposal, which says that the investment must be carried out within a year of receipt of the permit. There should be no such reservation; anyone who really wants to create a wind farm should be allowed to do so. But no new permits were issued. And if the Secretary of State says that it is not worth creating a wind power plant in Hungary, and that is why these investments have not been made, then I say why this bill is necessary. Why is there a need for a clear government authority on who in the future will be allowed to establish wind power in Hungary at all, on the capacity to be tendered for the construction of wind farms? If the market were to say that it is not worth creating a wind power plant in Hungary today, then this whole issue would be unnecessary and would not be here in front of Parliament. On the contrary, I believe that there would be an investor's demand in Hungary for the creation of wind farms, and that would have space and opportunity, at least 4-5 times the current performance, the current capacity. And indeed, the issue of deregulation is very important, and many have been exemplary with the Netherlands, Germany, Denmark. Of course, it is not possible to compare a wind farm set up on a beach, where it can be expected with almost constant wind performance and intensity - almost constant - and use these equipment as much as possible. It is natural that we will never, as we say, Denmark, operate 100% with wind energy or renewable energy. In the North Sea, wind power plants installed on long beaches operate under much different conditions than, say, wind farms operated in Kisalföld in Hungary. But I keep telling you, that doesn't mean that the government should be afraid of wind power. One version of this was that the government's authority was to ensure that wind farms did not exist in the future. And this was confirmed by the Ministry of National Development when he said that he saw Hungary's energy strategy secure without creating additional wind power plants. But another version, and of course it comes up in the mind of man, because the little devil is motating there, and we live in this country, and we have been monitoring this government's activities for six years, whether or not the goal would have been to get investors and oligarchs close to the government to tender. This is the other extreme, I know, because one half of us says that one of us is that we want to completely prevent the government and the other is that we may be able to provide it to government entrepreneurs later on, when the conditions are in place, and indeed we can create these wind wheels with greater economic benefits. We don't know what the future will bring. In any case, what we are seeing right now, and for six years now, we have seen that there is no new wind power plant capacity, nor is there, for example, hydropower capacity. Not so much that even in places such as the Danube dam, where only turbines should be installed and electricity production could already take place, there would be no environmental intervention. [[12.00]] As far as I know, during the previous cycle, Secretary of State Illés Zoltán personally acted in the process of withdrawing the authorisation already granted for these turbines, so he faced this level only because it is hydropower, and because his philosophy was that if there is water, there is water, if there is no water, there is no water, and there should not be an extension and renewable energy should not be produced. I know that Zoltán Illés's departure has changed the attitude of the government somewhat, and I very much hope that at least in these places where electricity can be produced without any major investment, the government will contribute to this happening. We also have bigger ideas on hydropower production, which has led to many debates here in Parliament, and which are not new plans, since they are almost a century old, of course adaptable to the requirements of the age and environmental needs. This also raises the problem of moving towards renewables and increasing the country's energy independence. We are talking about the fact that, at the moment, imports are very large and are increasing, because most of our gas-powered power plants and gas-powered power plants are not even operating for most of the year. Even though these capacities are built up, they're not working, because it's not worth turning them on to your operator. Indeed, market conditions are strongly distorted by the support mechanism developed by the European Union for renewable energy, which brings benefits mainly to Germany, as they also produce and install a large number of wind-based equipment. This pricing mechanism could be reviewed. I do not think that the electricity market should be distorted so strongly by such a strong support mechanism and, of course, not unilaterally towards wind energy, but that renewable energy still needs support, and that it should not be left in full, purely market conditions here, because the protection of the environment and the fight against climate change are all intended to invest in renewable energy rather than in conventional fossil-based or gas-powered power plants. Of course, the two can go together to a level that is necessary, but the aim is to reduce our dependence on imports as much as possible. The other issue, which is also raised with regard to energy supply and renewable energies, is the issue of small power plants of household size vs. large energy production systems. If this is already the case, Jobbik would prefer to move towards household-sized and island-powered equipment in the long term. Of course, this is a long-term strategy, because this would require the whole domestic electricity system to be transformed, smart grids to be developed and adapted to the fact that we do not have four or five large power plants, but more and more people at household level produce the necessary electricity themselves, even taking into account domestic-sized wind wheels, solar panels, solar panels, solar collectors, earth heat and all the rest, including biomass, of course. Complete companies - also Hungarian companies - make a living by building biomass power plants for smaller settlements in Western Europe, which solves the electricity and heat supply of a settlement by basing the combustion on agricultural waste from agricultural activity in the settlement. This is a good use of biomass. The less good that has spread in Hungary in recent years is that cutting trees are grinded and fired with the term biomass renewable energy. There has been a change in this direction, a process, but I think that if we are talking about renewable energy in Hungary, it is still largely necessary to mean that we are firing forests in converted, old coal power plants, which are neither very good nor can be called renewable. So biomass is a major part of renewable energy today, and this is not necessarily worthy of boasting. The Secretary of State also mentioned that the proportion of wind energy in total electricity generation is perhaps 2 percent. There's still a lot of room for that. To sum up, I can say in a minute or two that the Jobbik Movement for Hungary supports all types of renewable energy, we also support the creation of wind energy capacities, and we, by going to government ourselves, would allow wind power plants to be set up and such tenders re-launched depending on the capacity of the electricity grid to bear loads, and in the longer term, it would be possible to increase the ratio more and more. And, of course, as smart grids, renewable energy production equipment are changing and improving, the share could be increased, not without reason, and not immediately, but with the principle of gradualness. But there's gonna be a pretty powerful capacity requirement here. In the coming years, a decade or two, a lot of old power plants will fall out of the system and we will need thousands of megawatts of power generation capacity. This is why it is unnecessary to continue the fight against nuclear power plants versus renewables that one pushes the other out of the system, because even the two together would require little, even additional production capacities to supply Hungary with electricity and not to have an import rate of nearly 50 per cent during certain periods, which, by the way, I note that it comes from electricity produced in Polish and Ukrainian coal power stations and from electricity produced in nuclear power plants. So if we think about it from an environmental point of view, from a climate protection point of view, it is certainly not an optimal solution. There is still much more to say about wind power, because there is a problem with the high volume of wind energy produced by Germany in the European energy network, and it is because the Germans have not built up their North-South electricity network properly, so this problem, called loop flow, is happening through Poland and the Czech Republic, is pouring this large amount of electricity into it. But this is not the problem of renewables; it is also a network problem that the network has not yet adapted to the existing renewable energy intensity and quantity. This is the problem of the coming decades, and this should include development and research money, on the one hand, how to store it as effectively as possible and on the other hand to regulate the amount of energy from renewables. I will explain further my arguments later in the debate. That's all I wanted for now. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2016-09-14-52	Thank you very much, Congressman. The lead speaker for the LMP Group is Mr Sallai R. Benedek. Here you go, Congressman.
u2016-09-14-53	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, I'm gonna be long, and I'm gonna talk a lot, because I'm gonna feel good, because this debate is typical of showing me why I don't vote for Fidesz, why I don't vote for MSZP, and why I don't vote for Jobbik, and this comforting feeling that I'm sitting in the right place here in the horseshoe, basically gives me stability to speak. I must say that this whole presentation and the introduction and the pro-government presentation, as well as the speech by the pro-government speaker, reminds me of two stories that I will mention several times. Everyone knows one, this is the next. You're on the freeway. The radio announces a madman going against traffic. He'll say, "One"? All of them! This is the moment that will return regularly in an analogy. And the other is a parliamentary story here. My director, András Schiffer, once spoke in a speech about the knowledge society and why it would be necessary to develop human capacity. Then Prime Minister Viktor Orbán arranged all this by saying that, oh, the LMP wants people in white coats and glasses in the country, and no one to work, because that's what he understood about the knowledge society. This was important, because when their lead speaker, Mr.Tamás László, started his speech and set up his view on nuclear energy and opportunities, it occurred to me whether anyone who graduated from Ybl College in the 1970s had been monitoring the events of the past 40 years, what additional opportunities there were, and whether he had any intention of monitoring the changes in his own field. And then I will come to the point of why this direction is conceptually, philosophically unacceptable, and why I am now in a position to distance myself easily from my fellow opposition Members, with whom we are, as we wish, often mixed up on a platform. [[12.10]] István Józsa's first comment - and I remember it now, in 2010 this contributed not to vote for the MSZP - was precisely the relationship with protected areas and the perception of this. You were saying that in world heritage areas, you understand that you may, but you consider these protected areas too much. Overall, 10 percent of Hungary's territory is a national protected area, to which the legislation refers. In order to make it clear what the legislation bans: it bans the Buda Castle District so that no windmills can be built there, bans the Andrássy road so that it cannot be there, bans the old village of Hollókő, bans the Abbey of Pannonhalm, the Old Christian tombs of Pécs and the Tokaj wine region. In addition, there are two where it may be relevant, but there it is not relevant because of the national protected area, Lake Fertő and Hortobágy. With all the others, he's practically making a nonsense ban where I don't really think it's gonna come up, but I'm glad he's involved. I am also pleased with the protected areas, but, while I am already on this subject, I would like to say to my fellow Member, Józsa, immediately before I attempt to dismantle the government, to respond to the fact that this regulation in international law - in case he meets it at international conferences - is happening. First of all, when we determine that it is a protected area and a world heritage site, the minimum is to determine the environment within a kilometer, five kilometers, where it affects its image. But I do bring in international law as to what he usually says - did they collect them? - : a thousand-metre radius of the national ecological network; national landscape protection area; county landscape protection area; sensitive natural area; Natura 2000 sites; biosphere reserves; outstanding habitats of ramsar, some of which are not national protected, therefore important, but have a very large bird migration product, which is why it is interesting; forest areas; natural watercourses; lakes; residential buildings; plants, farms, in particular, in what hundreds of metres of the residential environment; road network, in many places, over 250 metres, where it cannot be; rail network with the same distance; electricity pipeline network; hydrocarbon management network and airports, where there is regulation of 10 kilometres. This is the list that, based on international experience, is used to include in such legislation, with specific frameworks, what is appropriate to miss. The reason why this list is interesting is that if we put everything into it - and once in God's name to accept an amendment to the governing party, which I submit, let's say, in this case - this excludes around 22 percent of the country from the areas to be set up. At the same time, the geospatial modeling produced by cartographers and research workshops on the subject currently excludes more than 90 percent of the country from potentially rationally relevant wind power plants. Over 90 percent! But here's the interesting thing: the same research also says that only 7 percent of the country's territory would produce 50-60 thousand megawatts of wind power only. That's the fact. Therefore, without further ado, they can wholeheartedly support the amendment when I submit it, because we still have the capacity. You're absolutely right, Mr Secretary, potential capacity means how much it can be maximum, and this could be around a hundred percent. One-third or one-quarter of what can be actually won, but that means that if we talk about 20,000 megawatts as potential performance, we could still produce ten times the number, ten times, say, of the Paks Nuclear Power Plant with such solutions. And then, obviously, in this case, I ask the MSZP, and since it is not only an energizer, but also an environmental politician, the MSZP will have to convince the environmental politicians of the field that, indeed, these criteria are practical for further firm expectations. And then I'll tell you why I don't vote for Jobbik. And I would like to do this in private with my fellow Member Kepli, but only for the record: so anyone who says that he is not blind, but that he can have nuclear energy is blindness. So those who support nuclear energy cannot support renewable energy sources, which have very simple reasons, and I know that my fellow Member Kepli is well aware of this: it has a completely different energy supply system, it cannot be built in parallel, it cannot be built in energy storage and energy supply, it cannot be built in parallel with two systems in the pipeline, the country either goes this way or goes that way. It is not possible to turn thousands of billions into energy grid systems in parallel with building both of them - one of them. I don't even like responding to water power plants because it really pisses me off, just like it would piss off Zoltán Illés, so it's nonsense, because you can generate energy with so little efficiency, so little capacity compared to investment, at such a price that it destroys the landscape, the water supply system of agriculture, destroys the entire ecological network of rivers that this sacrifice cannot be made. So I will stick to dealing with only the sentences that we agree with, namely the fact that renewable energy sources have significant potential. I will also turn to this legislative proposal. First time I checked, I'm telling you, it's nothing else, it's the Traffic Act again! What they do here is they regulate the frames - there is no such thing in the world that two ministers need a windmill, so basically local authorities allow it to be or not; it can be obtained by tender... - they redistribute the market here, it is nothing else. That was the first impression. After that, we tried to look at this professionally, and that is why I am tired of going beyond this, what it means, because there are very, very many things that I think the Prime Minister's Office, Mr. Secretary of State, is simply not well prepared, or it is not a task for good professionals to explore the potential of wind energy in Hungary's energy vision among realities. And then I'll tell you the facts. You have mentioned, Mr Secretary of State, that we will come up with international examples, and I will begin to do so, if you will allow me. In the government's proposal, therefore, T/19101. In this proposal, wind power plants are fully connected - and so did their lead speaker - with a deterioration in security of supply, although in reality it would be thinking about the system and the multidisciplinary approach that would create opportunities. There are international examples of this: Denmark is mentioned a lot, whose geographical characteristics are different, but there the share of wind power generation in total production is constantly increasing, in 2000 it was 12 per cent, in 2015 it reached 42 per cent. This is interesting because they immediately come with the coast and geographical conditions, which is interesting because we have heard the averaged rates of Germany in the lead-up, even though it works with 87 percent of wind power plants in its coastal zones, and it can reach 62-64 percent in the remote parts of the Great Plains, which is the rationality of the construction of these systems. So in Hungary - Mr Secretary of State was right - 1-2 percent, there has been no progress since 2006. It does not matter whether the Prime Minister was named Ferenc Gyurcsány, Ferenc Bajnai, Viktor Orbán - it is a reprehensible crime that the country will suffer in the long term that we did not start to go in time in the direction that the whole of Europe was going, and the civilised part of Europe, who could think, has done so. The situation of wind energy in the world and in the EU. This is important because wind energy is the driver, showing the fastest growth everywhere, both technologically and in terms of energy that can be extracted. This is important - forgive me, I can't remember which one of you said - because, per windmill, about 2 megawatts of extractable energy are mentioned, as far as you can see, those that can harness the kinetic energy of the wind at 60-70 meters and potentially reach 6-7 megawatts are becoming more widespread in the world. This doesn't include what orientation or location you're at. So obviously one of the largest capacity-enhancing technologies in the world, and this is not a coincidence. In 2015, 63 thousand megawatts of new wind turbine capacity was installed in the world, showing a 17 percent increase in aggregate capacity, ahead of any other solution, for the first time. I'm only saying this because when the driver who goes against traffic alone... - so in nuclear power, the increase in 2015 was 3.3 percent, this is what the world thought was going to invest in the energy future. It was 33 percent solar energy, increasing capacity. Once again, wind power is the only place where this high number has been reached. And it's also not a coincidence. And obviously, this, everyone comes face-to-face effect always comes back. I tell you where they grew most: China, the United States, Germany, India, Spain, the United Kingdom, Canada and France, Italy and Brazil. These are the countries that, in your opinion, are all going in the wrong direction, even though they could go in the direction of nuclear power, which, in a stupid and energy vision, put the greatest emphasis on wind energy. In recent years China has installed the largest wind power plant capacity, in 2014 it already crossed the 100 thousand megawatt magical limit, only in last year, 2015 it increased its available performance by 30 800 megawatts, which added 48 percent of the world's transferred capacity to the production of energy. [[12.20]] By 2020, wind power plants will be more than 250 thousand megawatts. To make these allegations sound more than just a cry out word in the wilderness, you may not be angry, Mr Secretary, if I tell you that I have handed over my own preparation material, so that each of them has the international publication background of where, from what statistics we take the data, and that we did not extract them from our fingers, but that we practically used the publication background of the world's scientific life to establish our opinion. The change in net power generation capacity per technology: the wind was the biggest development in the EU between 1995 and 2015, with 137 thousand megawaves growing in this 20-year period. The sun is only in third place, and nuclear energy has developed backwards, as the European Union's nuclear production has decreased by 11 thousand megawats. That's what needs to be rebuilt. This is what a normal-thinking state, which has some kind of energy vision, goes in the direction of how it can eliminate and eliminate this. This is what I am asking Jobbik Hungary to do, by rethinking its energy vision, by completely weeding out this nuclear energy direction, because it is clear that not only the world but also the wiser states of the European Union are going in this direction. Most governments have already set the goal of achieving a 100% renewable share. Scotland has already undertaken this in its power generation by 2020, Costa Rica has committed to 100% by 2021, Denmark has committed itself to 2025, Norway to 2030 and Sweden to 2045 to switch to 100% renewable energy sources. This legislation is blocking this. This legislation prevents this from gaining ground. This legislative amendment, which has now come into play, creates that wind energy developments can no longer be made in Hungary. After I'm running out of time in the keynote speakership, I'd like to talk about the social impact later. But let me respond to a very important question, which Mr Secretary of State said first of all, about how the resources of deployment capacities will develop. I will discuss this in detail in the social aspects, but one thing you need to know is that this is the type of energy where investors are lining up to make energy production investments in Hungary. Not out of public money, not out of Russian credit, not from the background of taxpayers, but through local communities where there would be the possibility of a fully independent, independent supply system, independent of foreign power supply systems. This is the one with a real potential, and this is the one that can make a significant contribution to the positive development of Hungary's energy vision. If you'll allow me, I'll continue with the social effects from here, if I'm to be heard. Thank you for the floor, Mr President.
u2016-09-14-54	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, This brings us to the end of the keynote speeches. We now have a two-minute comment, as no independent Members have made themselves known. First, I give the floor to István Józsa, from the group of the MSZP. Here you go.
u2016-09-14-55	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, I am very pleased that Mr Sallai R. Benedek has explained in such a fine way the possibilities of developing renewable energy production and has thus joined what I have said. I'd like to clarify what you must have misunderstood. The protected area is the protected area. I argued that in addition to this, the wind-wheeled area is not an alien, but rather an expression for the viewer that there are environmentally conscious people living here. I also argued that Hungary's natural characteristics are an opportunity to build additional wind farms. So you don't want to make it sound like I'm arguing for the construction of wind power plants in protected areas. The other way around, what's protected is protected. In addition, I argue that, based on the subjective assessment of integration into the landscape, no further areas, otherwise suitable according to the wind, should be banned in Hungary. I also stressed that, indeed, in the area of licensing, the government should take decisive steps to increase renewable energy sources. This is where private investors can be expected, and those who are committed to the environment can be expected. It is up to the State to adapt regulators and modernise the electricity system and the regulatory system. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2016-09-14-56	Thank you very much, Congressman. Another two-minute comment will be Mr Lajos Kepli, from the Jobbik Group.
u2016-09-14-57	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I, too, was inspired by my fellow Member, Mr Benedek, who said that he was very calm about sitting in the right place. I don't know if you'll think that after 2018, but it's quite obvious that you're already trying to argue for wind energy in a way that is almost equal to religious fanaticism. Where I didn't speak against wind power, all I did was suggest that there were other energy sources that could be considered. He thinks it's extreme that I even dare to mention that nuclear power is also an alternative to a basic power plant. The other is the question of hydropower. We have been trying to explain to my fellow Member in Parliament for years, with little success - not only to him, but also to his fellow Members of the LMP - that if a river has entered and hydropower is produced there, the country that does not complete this process is indeed the loser. We can see this in the middle of the Danube-Tisza on the desiccation of the sandback, we can see it in the continuous deepening of the river Danube and a number of other problems. For example, the navigability of the Danube does not support what my fellow Member has said, but precisely that we have to deal with it, not primarily for reasons of energy production, but for reasons of water management. Nor in Austria or Germany do we see that if we went along the Danube, these power plants would have destroyed the landscape and caused a major ecological disaster. I think the Austrians are particularly sensitive to these questions. And let us not only give examples to Austria, Germany, the Netherlands or Denmark that, when it comes to wind energy, but also, when it comes to the Netherlands, let us look at how perfect their water management system has been, how high it is used either for agricultural irrigation or for energy production. Let us see what is best for Hungary. Thank you.
u2016-09-14-58	Thank you very much, Congressman. Then, as Congressman Sallai R. Benedek has requested, he will be given the opportunity to speak again. Here you go, Congressman.
u2016-09-14-59	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Just so it doesn't look like we're fawning around in the opposition, I'd respond with a sentence. My apologies to my fellow Member, Joshua, if I misunderstood. I assure my fellow Member, Kepli, that we look at these countries in many other respects, including the process of dismantling hydroelectric power plants on the Rhine, which is already underway in Italy. It's probably not a coincidence that they disappear and give us space. The part about socio-economic impacts is very important. Mr State Secretary said specifically that the opposition's horse is creating jobs and that there is no real potential in this. It's completely disproved. Of course it's not in there when there's a 1% or 2% share of energy. If it wasn't that much, it was 50 percent, it would be. If we developed Paks back, we wouldn't have a centralized job in one place, but across the country. Centralised job creation, which we say is created by an Audi or any other key government investment, will always take resources away from strengthening the countryside and small and medium-sized enterprises in a diverse workplace structure. The diverse energy supply system, which LMP would offer Hungary, to have renewable energy sources that are most adaptable to landscape conditions, according to our current information, could create the highest employment potential due to the specific characteristics of the supply system. As far as we know, and this is also supported by international research, wind energy is at the forefront of low-cost energy technologies. The reason for this is very simple. The Secretary of State also mentioned the life cycle analysis and the concerns about it, the fact that we need to look at not only the environmental burden, but also the cost. Indeed, the technology of all of these is one of the most favourable solutions at the moment because of its lifetime. The strategic goal is to improve energy independence in Hungary, even Prime Minister Viktor Orbán said that - although from then on we did not have much in the same boat - but we agree that energy independence is a fundamental goal. In Hungary, the level of energy supply is still 80-85 percent, but according to statistics, they lie 60-65 percent, because nuclear energy is considered to be domestic energy, while neither fuel nor technology is Hungarian. [[12.30]] So as long as we don't have any mining that produces the materials involved, and as long as there's no lasting solution to their waste management, you can say that it's domestic energy, but it's not domestic. This depends on foreign resources just like any other imported energy. That's why, among other things, the direction is wrong. The advantage of decentralisation with wind power plants is safer supply due to lower transport losses. So, compared to Paks, where there is a centralised centralised system, wind energy would create the opportunity to deal with this in a decentralised way. Technological innovation and research in the development of the renewable sector can generate significant export revenues, which can create additional economic opportunities for the country. The labour force available in more than one location brings far more social positives than if this is achieved in a centralised way. The strengthening of energy autonomy at regional level and the local economy is supported by these wind power plants all over the world, and the German examples show the extent to which this can create higher-quality jobs shared, and this has a fundamentally positive impact on the labour market. With the use of renewables, it is also generally true for the wind, but in roughly even distribution, it can drastically reduce the conflict situation that can be traced back to access to resources in a world which is expected to be faced with increasing contrasts. You don't always have to say this, but the international political situation is relatively hot, our biggest neighbour is in an effective war at the moment. Thus, the pursuit of energy independence can only be created with resources available in the Carpathian Basin. Not all available for the nuclear power plant, all available for the production of wind energy. You have a significantly lower environmental load than any other similar energy supply system. Carbon-related natural destruction is also the best throughout the life cycle. I consider this positive for my part, and I appreciate the remarks made by the Secretary of State in which he specifically mentioned that it could involve nature conservation and landscape concerns, because I appreciate the fact that he takes this into account in his opinion, but unfortunately his opinion is not well founded. At the moment, I have just said, for a number of reasons, that I would legally exclude 20-25 percent, so that it would not be possible to install it, but effectively, from the point of view of rationality, up to 90 percent of the country's territory could be excluded from this. Nevertheless, in the remaining area, such a supply system could be set up without any further adaptation to the landscape. Let me mention, that's what my colleagues tell me, the effect on the bird fauna in nature. The Royal Birds Association practically did a specific research with David Attenborough's face on this, showing to ten thousand birds that were destroyed by urbanization threats, what numbers appeared. Buildings, glass, glass surfaces led to a ratio of 5820. Then came the devastating effect of high power lines by 1300, by 1060 the cats appeared, after which the agricultural assets had 850, 710 the presence of pesticides, pesticides, the communication towers had 50 and, on average, one of ten thousand birds was cast by wind wheels in square kilometres, on a national average. Therefore, such an aspect, if wisely installed, with due care, is negligible, should not in any way constitute a risk. And while we are talking about environmental protection, it is also worth mentioning that, according to our knowledge, this is supported again by four types of publications, the lowest carbon emissions from land wind power plants are the lowest of all power generation technologies. According to the latest European scientific analyses, emissions are set at 7 grams of CO2 equivalent/kilowattor for the entire life cycle. Based on the comparative analysis, the nuclear power plants, which my fellow pro-government Members regularly say are environmentally friendly, are defined in 98-144 grams of CO2 equivalent/kilowattor. This roughly means that its environmental harm is a one-tenth potential for the climate agreement, global warming and all related issues, thus polluting one-tenths of them. In fact, if we look at the technological possibilities, the opportunities for funding, the best opportunities for the environment, the best for society, then clearly the country must move towards renewable energy sources, if it shows a little wisdom in the energy future. This is how it can create real independence, and, to tell you the truth, it is obviously wind energy and solar energy that must be the most important role in all of this, because these are the two areas where the world has achieved the greatest technological development in recent years. Let me tell you one more thing, this is also the recent event. Under the tendering schemes, Mr State Secretary is aware of the possibilities of applying for aid schemes for social cooperatives. You may know, Mr Secretary, but if you don't, I'm happy to say that the energy community systems in Denmark, Germany, are very well built. There's a lot going on. There are block houses, not only in rural areas, but also in block houses, which combined money, partly for solar energy and wind energy in rural areas. Community energy projects will be created where private investment can be used to provide an area with its long-term potential independent of energy. All incentives, i.e. the legislative environment, tax policy and aid policy, are in the hands of the government to take action in this regard. All of this about why they're doing it? Because it's one of the cheapest energy in the world. Again, I do not make this up, but partly american, partly english, partly Dutch and partly Hungarian, research carried out at the Corvinus University. I would like to mention the latter, the research carried out at the Faculty of Economics of Corvinus University: if we make full use of the costs of individual technologies, we see that under the current European conditions, taking into account geographical conditions, gas and coal-based power plants and land wind energy are the two most favourable for their full life span. Practically all these facts that you are lining up here, and which I am happy to share with my fellow government Members and representatives of the government, clearly indicate that this legislation is not right. It is not right because it creates additional limits, further regulatory conditions have been reduced, and where it should be regulated is rather superficial. I don't know, I'd be happy to take your help on this one, 7/B. § (1) thus begins the sentence that the government's electricity system... in order to ensure a balance of expected performance. I would very much like to know what a legal abstract is that defines the expected performance balance, what it means in particular. In principle, 1-2 percent of wind power plants currently play a role in electricity generation. I told you how it was going in Denmark, Germany. As a result, it is clear that this clarification of the target achieved in 2015 and 2020 is very, very unexplainable. In the case of gas reservoirs of poorly used technologies with problems with centralised storage, research projects should also be launched to convert them into compressed air storage. Thus, the evolution of performances varies at a level that depends on investment and technological development, which the rigid text of the legislation will not really be able to handle in this form. So I'm afraid they might contribute. 7/B. § (2) I have said that I would consider it strictly justified, and I would find it necessary to add to the paragraph of paragraph 2 of this article. At least, if the system of national cooperation allows, perhaps consider it, because these are not bad intentions, but may be easier to interpret. And perhaps in places where this is relevant, let's say, the shore of Lake Balaton or the shore of Lake Tisza, or some of the places that are relevant as Ramsari habitat, it would be significantly more necessary to regulate this than the question of the Abbey of Pannonhalm or the tombs of Old Christian Pécs, which would otherwise be very, very small. It is also very important to read the justification for the draft legislation. When we look at the process of restrictions so far, that the capacity of wind power plants connected to the national network must be regulated, we fully agree on this. It must be regulated, but the only way that regulation makes sense is if the energy system as a whole is affected by changes, because this is obviously necessary. But for this reason, it might be worth considering to the Prime Minister that either a German sample or, where they look at it more maturely or with greater wisdom, they create independent legislation for these areas, precisely because it offers additional opportunities in social policy, which is really a pity not to take advantage of. All of this, albeit with good intentions, goodwill and only because of our professional needs, but even with the amendments, we cannot be reassured by the direction of the legislative amendment, because it does not allow room for a meaningful start-up in Hungary after ten years of criminal silence. On the other hand, a regulatory role at an unnecessary level of government, i.e. influenced by policy, is created in the hands of two ministers, which creates a great deal of concern and potential for abuse. Please forgive me, so I'm not saying that you or your minister or someone else is involved in these, but based on six years of Fidesz administration, it would be foolish not to assume that where the possibility of abuse is created, someone will sooner or later not live with it. [[12.40]] Therefore, for all these reasons, our group will not be able to support this amendment. However, I would ask that at least the amendments tabled should be duly taken into consideration. Thank you for the floor, Mr President, and I'm sorry for wasting your time.
u2016-09-14-60	Thank you very much, Congressman. I will ask my fellow Members if anyone else wishes to speak in the debate. [[No signal.]] I don't see an application, the general... - I'm sorry, Congressman Lajos Kepli just pushed because he had already checked in once, but he withdrew it. [[Lajos Kepli: Yes.]] And it was just this moment that the two-minute speech came out. Here you go.
u2016-09-14-61	Thank you very much, Mr. President. To sum up, I would like to say that Jobbik Hungary's Movement continues to believe that there is a need for additional wind power generation capacities in Hungary, and although in the long term we believe in locally produced and locally used power generation and energy, especially on the basis of renewables, we also say that there is a need for basic power plants at the moment and that there is a need for greater investment in renewable energy, such as wind power plants. That is why we cannot support this bill in this form, since it does not facilitate, but effectively restrict, the spread of these equipment. I understand, of course, that, by referring to the LMP only with one sentence, that the only leg of its remaining political legitimacy is by making its voters believe that it is the only person in Hungary who represents the spread of renewable energy, but it is not so. Believe me that the Jobbik Movement for Hungary is also pro-renewable energy, but standing on the ground of reality and optimistic towards the future, taking advantage of all possibilities in the present. I wanted to say this, and at the same time to the Secretary of State, as I have already said in my speech to the Prime Minister, that we cannot support this bill in this form. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2016-09-14-62	Thank you very much. Once again, I would like to ask my fellow Members if anyone else would like to speak in the debate. [[No signal.]] I don't see any contact. The general debate is closed. I will ask Mr State Secretary, as rapporteur, whether he wishes to respond to what was said in the debate. [[Nándor Csepreghy: Yes.]] Here you are, Secretary of State, your time frame is 30 minutes.
u2016-09-14-63	Mr President, Thank you very much for the floor. Allow me, however, to address a fundamental question before you, before I answer the points raised by your specific representatives, because Parliament, although it is true, is the depositary of the people's representation, in theory, coming together to try to answer the question of how the common good can be created or how it can be improved. So when we talk about how Hungary's energy strategy or energy policy can be improved through different regulatory instruments, we are not only discussing a professional debate, but we are talking about what makes people living in Hungary pay less for energy, assuming that it is better to pay less than more, and that Hungary's competitiveness, so how economic growth can be supported by the fact that companies who produce in Hungary have lower production costs along a cheaper energy than those in the neighbouring countries with whom we owe a political and economic community for the European Union, but we are still at some level in competition for capital, their job creation capacities and other aspects. So when the government touches on one of these issues, whether the issue of energy regulation or other issues, it always has the aim of serving the common good, strengthening the common good, or going against it. Therefore, in this debate, it is very good to see that yes, there are issues that can be discussed in academic debates or in principle alongside white tables, the issue of energy policy is such a matter, but the position that emerges in this situation, which seems rational, does not always coincide with the institution of the common good which I believe the government would definitely like to serve. Because what is the most important question for the Hungarian people? How much you have to pay for electricity or energy, make sure you have adequate security of supply, and this security of supply can be guaranteed by the state, the government at all times, regardless of its political hinterland or colour. And here I would like to turn to the answers to the specific points, because I think it is important to clarify some statements, and if you will allow me to go in the order of the opposition speakers' speeches, there will be some overlap in the answers. Firstly, Mr Józsa mentioned that the share of renewables in total energy production is showing a downward trend. Here, according to the numbers in front of me, this has not been confirmed; in 2010, you said perhaps 7.6 percent, my statistics, based on the data I have, are 8.6 percent, which increased to 9.7 percent in 2014. Now, of course, if we start to select within renewables, you may see one of the forms of renewables falling backwards compared to the others, but this needs to be treated in a uniform way. So the main question is what percentage of renewable energy sources or renewable energy types represent in total energy production, and in this we are seeing a growing trend overall - and statistical data show this. With regard to the issue of MEDAR, I would just like to draw your attention to the fact that the Parliament, of which you are a member, adopted this law in spring. This is now the Commission's consultation, which you, as a Member, also have the opportunity to look into. You talked about the differences you think you're discovering between the government's announced and the government's energy policy. These are important things, I think, but what is more important is the results of energy policy. So if it brings up these two dimensions, then it brings up the other dimension, and this dimension also brings energy policy closer to the general public, with the result that in Hungary the unit cost of energy, i.e. 30 per cent compared to the unit cost of energy paid by German citizens. So a German citizen pays 70 percent more for the same amount of energy than a Hungarian citizen in Hungary today has to pay for the same amount of energy, which I think is perhaps more important than the difference in the energy policy that you have practiced or proclaimed. [[Dr. István Józsa: You earn three times as much!]] It is more important what the result shows and the result is a 70 percent cheaper energy bill, a 70 percent cheaper overhead cost than the German citizens pay. The criticism of centralisation has appeared in energy policy in more than one place, with almost every Member who has spoken in this debate. We believe that centralization is synonymous with stronger regulation and synonymous with the support of the same common good that I said earlier. And if we mention examples, then you set the Dutch example, in which you basically set wind farms and their number as a positive and to be followed example. Here, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that while Hungary was able to produce nearly 10 percent share of renewable energy in the 2014-15 round, the same percentage in the Netherlands is 5 percent in their own energy production. Five percent! Thus, the visible number of wind power plants can perform half as much as the renewable energy policy that is being debated in Hungary. If we're talking about numbers, I think we need to take them into account. I would also like to provide some data for Mr Kepli's comment. The government will not want to reduce but allocate resources to energy efficiency and renewable energy generation in increasing quantities by 2020 compared to earlier periods. Why am I talking about the two separately? Because it is true that a country can reduce its dependence on energy, I think it is an illusion that energy independence in Hungary could be realised within a period of 5-10 years, i.e. full independence and self-sufficiency. It's an illusion. What Hungary can achieve in a realistic way is the reduction of energy dependence. There's two ways this way. On the one hand, it enhances its own capacity to generate energy, there is a debate between us with Mr Sallai about whether, say, a nuclear power plant can be regarded as its own capacity. This is the same thing, as if you said that you would buy a car that was not manufactured in Hungary, you would pay for it, but it will not be your property, because that car was not manufactured in Hungary. I believe that what the Hungarian State is buying and through which the Hungarian State can produce energy is indeed the property of the Hungarian State and, through it, the Hungarian people. [[12.50]] The government spends 700 billion forints on energy efficiency and renewable energy sources. Why? Because, on the one hand, through energy efficiency, we can reduce the growth rate of our energy consumption in a growing trend, and on the other hand, we can diversify our dependence on renewable energy sources. It has been mentioned in several Members, and I have not mentioned renewable energy sources, not because of ignorance, but rather because of renewable energy sources, which must be taken into account in energy production in Hungary, geothermals and others. You are right, Mr President, on this point, I have just narrowed down what I have to say to wind energy because this is what the proposal is about; this does not mean that these issues are not in the government's knowledge or horizon. Why does the state regulate these issues of wind energy production, for example? Because, when the State permits or supports the creation of certain capacities, the balancing power generation of which needs to be resolved or built up, despite the creation of a private investment, let us say, a wind power plant, the balancing capacity must be maintained with public money and built out of public money, which, I think, makes it binding or requires that the State enters as a regulator and has stronger regulatory tools. And I would like to respond to those raised by Mr Sallai, that the number you mentioned is true, you said that 7 percent of the country, i.e. 7 percent of the country's territory, is capable of creating about 50-70 thousand megawatts of power by installing those wind farms. In the meantime, I asked my colleagues to see what this meant in practice. It takes 10,000 power plants to produce 20,000 megawatts. At 50,000 to 70,000, let's say, the production of 60,000 megawatts requires 30,000 power plants, which means that we split 15,000 square kilometers of the country's territory and install wind power plants there. I'd like to ask the people in that area what they think about that. The debate on LMP is basically a debate of faith. I accept the position that you stand for being anti-nuclear, but from this point on, whatever position I take in this debate, which is rationally justified, and which is intended to maintain or, where appropriate, expand nuclear power plants capacity, will not be accepted by you. I acknowledge that, but allow me to be in a different position of principle than the LMP, and I think that this is a debate that is indeed important for Hungary, and which has a place in the political discourse where the voters of the country decide which policy should be represented or which policy should form a government and represent the position that the majority may represent. I do not want to participate in the debate, but the trends that you mentioned, among other things, about the growth rate of nuclear power plant capacity and how much or how much higher the growth of some part of renewable energy capacity is, are distorting because if you represent 60 units out of 100 units, something plus 1 unit, the increase of 60 units to 65 is, in spite of the percentage of a significant increase, not as much as the increase of one unit or zero to one or two. So your statistics should be taken into account from this point of view. In conclusion, I would like to ask the Parliament to ask the members of the Hungarian Parliament that, when they are going to vote on this amendment, they should take into account the aspect that, from the point of view of their own voters, cheap, predictable and reliable energy supply can be ensured without or with the adoption of the bill. Mr President, thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-09-14-64	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, The amendments may be submitted at 16:00 p.m. on Thursday. Act C of 2003 on electronic communications and XXII of 2013 on the Hungarian Energy and Utility Regulatory Office a general debate on the draft law amending the law until its closure. Government referral T/11762. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, I give the floor to Mr Nándor Csepreghy, Secretary of State of the Prime Minister's Office, author of the item on the agenda, within a 30-minute time frame. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2016-09-14-65	Thank you, Mr. President. A much more technical amendment to the law is what it was, so I think that this will lead to a less exciting debate. Many of the honourable Members, I think, have met, if not personally, through a voter's request, with the problem of how much annoyance is caused by the systems of public utility registers and the process of administration in this regard. Despite the fact that this issue may not be relevant at the time of digitalisation, it still confronts Hungarian voters and businesses with annoyance, unnecessary pastime and excessive bureaucracy. Worthful hours and days can be lost, although in countries where digitalisation is already moving forward, these cases could often be solved with a few clicks. The bill that we are discussing now is a prerequisite for dealing with public works reconciliation cases causing as little annoyance to voters as possible. In this respect, I think that full and up-to-date transparency of utility infrastructure can be said to be a question of public interest and, not to mention, of serious economic progress. For economic operators, therefore, this bill is also an opportunity for businesses to deal with real value-making work instead of bureaucracy instead of public works. In essence, I could say that this is another example of bureaucratic legislative proposals or government initiatives. Dear Parliament, This bill also serves to meet the EU's expectations and the government's own expectations. The EU directive to reduce the cost of deployment of high-speed electronic communications networks aims to reduce the transparency of physical utility infrastructure through investment costs. The government has formulated IT development, the development of advanced data management systems and the reduction of red tape as a key economic policy objective, and this is included within the framework of the. This issue also includes the creation of an e-Utility system in particular. The entry into force of the Government Decree on a single electronic public utility register on 1 November 2013 has brought about a significant change in the practice of the public utility register. On the one hand, it required public utility operators to make their network map and registration data available to a central system operated by the State. On the other hand, the Regulation provided for a three-year preparation period for operators of public utility lines to establish the reporting conditions. However, there was no required breakthrough in the e-Utilities system, so the relatively long three-year moratorium did not occur. According to official records, Hungary currently has nearly 900 public utility pipeline operators, which fulfilled their reporting obligations in a very different proportion. By division: only 3 per cent of the communications sector, 19 per cent of the district heating sector, 100 per cent of the hydrocarbon network, 55 per cent of the water utilities, and 76 per cent of the electricity supply, or 76 per cent of the others. On the basis of these precedents, the Government considers it justified to take further forward-looking measures to which it calls for Parliament's support. Dear Members, Ladies and Gentlemen, The government considers that in order to meet EU requirements, to achieve economic progress and to reduce red tape and thus complete the e-government system, it is necessary to establish a system of official controls and penalties, and to regulate it by law. The government has prepared a legislative and action package for the complete electronicisation of the process of public utility reconciliation, the first and most important step of which is based on this bill. One of the main objectives of the bill for citizens, designers, investors, with the shortening of the conciliation time and cost savings and the reduction of the administrative burden, is to achieve an electronic public service reconciliation through the e- utility system as a single point of contact in Hungary. In addition, not least, it is also a high requirement to complete the willingness of public utility operators to provide data, thus ensuring that the e-communication system is up to date and that it is fully achieved. [[13.00]] Dear House, In order to achieve this objective, the powers of the authorities concerned will be broadened, for example by means of a request and a sanction. In the case of electronic communications, the National Media and Infocommunications Authority and in the case of water utilities, electricity, natural gas and district heating networks, the Hungarian Energy and Utility Regulatory Office will also become an organisation with a prominent role in these aspects. Each office shall have its own legislative rights and may only be required by law or by law. The adoption of this bill to ensure the cooperation of the organisation operating the e-Utility system, after the three-year preparation period, without penalty, aims to strongly strengthen the enforcement of the legal compliance of the public utility operators. We are counting on the full fulfilment of their obligations by the operators of the public utility lines, which have failed to provide information so far, by means of legislative authorisations. Failure to do so will result in the use of sanctions and, where appropriate, the imposition of the necessary and justified data. [[István Jakab, vice-president of the Parliament takes the chair.]] With the national coverage of the public utility register, we can get closer to a more competitive state, where citizens and businesses can really act quickly and effectively in their public utility reconciliation cases, access fast, efficient and cheaper services. In this spirit, I call on the Parliament to adopt the relevant bill. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-09-14-66	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Welcome, fellow Members. Dear Parliament, Now we're going to hear the speeches from the lead speaker. I give the floor to Congressman Vas Imre, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group.
u2016-09-14-67	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, As is well known to everyone, the government decided in 2013 to establish the basis for a single electronic public utility register system. In conjunction with this, the Government established the Government Decree No 324/2013 on the Single Electronic Public Utilities Register, commonly known as the e-Utility Regulation, the entry into force of which on 1 November 2013 brought about a significant change in e-Utility Register practice. It required public utility operators to make their network map and registration data available to a central system operated by the State. This established the basic institutional system for a single electronic public utility register. The Regulation provided for a three-year period of preparation for the provision of data to public utility operators without a penalty. It is important to know that the e-Utility system is part of the national construction register and that the operator of the e-Utility system is Lechner Nonprofit Kft., which is 100% state-owned and controlled by the Prime Minister's Office. One of the main objectives of the package of legislation for citizens, designers, investors, is to establish an e-Utility system as an electronic means of reconciliation through a single contact point, which is in line with the government's efforts to boost economic recovery and to strengthen construction. In addition, the aim is to complete the willingness of public utility operators to provide data, thereby ensuring that the e-government system is up-to-date. The effective operation of the improved e-köz is a prerequisite for ensuring that the national coverage of data transmission is 100%. For this purpose, the powers of certain authorities will be broadened with the possibility of calling and sanctioning. In the field of electronic communications, the National Media and Communications Authority, while in the case of water utilities, electricity, natural gas and district heating networks, the Hungarian Energy and Public Works Regulatory Authority is entitled to act. These two authorities intend to strengthen the legal follow-up of the public utility operators after a three-year preparation period, without penalty, by adopting this bill to ensure the cooperation of the organisation operating the e-mail system. By means of legislative authorisations, public utility operators who have failed to provide information to date can fulfil their obligation to do so even after the request has been made. In the event of a failure to do so, a sanction can be used to provide the information. The two authorities mentioned above and the non-profit-making company operating the e-Utilities system. the reporting obligation will be jointly monitored in the future and the authority will take the necessary steps against the public utility operator that fails to provide the information on the basis of a statutory mandate. Finally, I would like to say that the Government Decree to be issued under the authority of this Act contains the transposition of several legal bases of Directive 2014/61/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council on measures to reduce the costs of deployment of high-speed electronic communications networks. We support the bill, please support the adoption of the bill. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-09-14-68	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr István Józsa, the lead speaker of the MSZP Group.
u2016-09-14-69	Thank you, Mr. President. I do not wish to doubt that a major modernisation step was the creation of the e-Mission Regulation at the time, and we regard it as a serious hiatus that only these fragmented conditions have developed, as Mr Secretary of State said in his introduction. In addition to what you have mentioned as such a practical argument, there is also a principle of this: that we know what is in the country, or that we do not know what is in the country; that a person can be obsessed with pulling out a wire, building something, or that the provider with a real license does so in accordance with the permits. In this sense, the final step of the authorised construction is to comply with the electronic data provision, the documentation. So in this sense, we have already said that without a sanction, this is probably not going to be complete, and ultimately, life has shown that there must be some incentive for those involved to perform this task. In addition to the fact that this bill now empowers the two agencies, the National Media and Communications Authority and the Hungarian Energy and Utility Regulatory Authority... - they can make up such fantasy names for everything: Plan Lechner, Plan Hild, such a plan. Why can't they come up with a normal fantasy name for these guys? To be the media authority, to be the energy department, to be able to talk about them. So, what you want to easily identify, the Széll Kálmán plan, nobody knows what's in the Széll Kálmán plan anymore, nobody knows what's the long name in the fine print section, but there's the Széll Kálmán plan. This, which every human being or a lot of people would use every day, remains, I don't know, a rather long name of six words. So I'd like you to be resourceful and give him a name that's worthy of your task, but it's memorable and easy to say. So I say one to the media, and the other to energy, because they don't want me to talk about the National Media and Infocommunications Authority and the Hungarian Energy and Utility Regulatory Office, but I want to talk about it. [[13.10]] It is therefore appropriate that licensees operating in the sectors under their competence should be able to verify, verify and sanction any failure to comply with their reporting obligations in relation to a single electronic public utility register. The bill provides for a duty of cooperation - rightly - between the organisation operating the electronic public works and the two offices, i.e. between the media and the energy office. By the way, it's strange that this has not been required before, because otherwise, how reliable data is produced. On the other hand, this bill states that the said two agencies may also verify the fulfilment of the obligation to report to the organisation operating the e-procurement, and, if necessary, impose fines. Well, about this time, I believe, there are discussions going on. So so far, the positive part, so far, is nice, good, eligible. Actually, the hiatus is that it hasn't been so far. But what's written here, from a codification point of view, seems to be wrong. It also considers provisions which are not essential, but which do not adapt the existing legislation to the new fundamental provisions. For example, the 2013 XXII on the Energy Agency. 25 laying down the fundamentality provisions of Law No. § 1 and 3 of the Act §2 of the present proposal, i.e. T/11762, is fundamental. Legislative proposal No. 3 does not intend to amend this provision. So there's a contradiction. That is, the present bill 2. Paragraph 3A is replaced by the following: §2 of the Act is not fundamental, whereas this provision is considered to be fundamental by the present bill. So here we consider an overview to be necessary, because there is no guarantee of consistency with regard to fundamentality. From the point of view of the content of the bill, it also seeks to clarify the division of tasks and the possibility of fines between the various regulatory authorities, which is a necessary step, and thus this amendment allows the fines imposed not solely for the purpose of fulfilling the reporting obligations to the media office, but also for the energy agency, since the greater part of the supervision of the data transmission belongs to the Energy and Utility Regulatory Office, so that the rules on imposing fines will be laid down by the government in a regulation. I would like to draw attention to the legislative law that, in particular, in legislation of this nature, where the nature of the legislation can be assessed significantly only if we see what the part of the regulation will be, i.e. whether it is in accordance with the level of the penalty that will be imposed later for the purpose of regulation; that is, it would be worth keeping the legislative law or introducing the draft regulation, at least the draft regulation, so that it can be considered for Parliament as well, whether the penalty rate provides a realistic opportunity for the achievement of the objective achieved or whether it can be considered proportionate to the objective pursued. So, in view of all of this, what I have said in praise of the need for this task and of the codification problems of the bill, in its present form, it is not yet suitable for the adoption of this by Parliament, but, in our opinion, it can be adapted with a certain precision. This is not expected of the opposition, it is a codification exercise. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2016-09-14-70	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr Lajos Kepli, the lead speaker of the Jobbik Group.
u2016-09-14-71	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Indeed, the bill before us may seem like an administrative amendment, but I would also like to raise a few questions here for a few minutes to the Secretary of State, which I hope will be answered in the closing word. The law itself concerns the possibility of fineping public utility network operators who are not providing data to the e-közmű, on behalf of the National Media and Infocommunications Authority and the Hungarian Energy and Utility Regulatory Office. As has already been said here by the speakers before me, and by my fellow Member, Józsa, because the Government decree, which will regulate the level of the fine, will regulate the procedure, is not yet known, so it is very difficult to give an opinion on what could otherwise be a positive initiative in trying to impose a fine on organisations that boycott information to provide sufficient data to the e-government. However, there is always a small side dish, an additional question as to the purpose of the government's use of these data. After all, we know that information is power, and that the amount of information relating to the operation of such utility, which can be gathered here with the help of this e-köz, is, of course, suitable for a lot of things. It is also appropriate for consumers to benefit from these services on the most favourable terms, if we approach this from a positive perspective, but it is also possible, of course, to abuse information, or even to use them with market regulation or market distortion, as there are a number of players in this market, whether from the private sector or from the public sector. In Hungary, whether we are looking at the energy sector or the water utility sector, the waste sector, there has been a process in the previous years that has significantly shifted these strategic sectors into public hands, which, by the way, were supported by Jobbik himself in terms of the energy sector or the water utility sector, because they are indeed sectors of strategic importance. However, this nationalisation must continue according to the government's plans, because it is one thing to take the service sector into public hands and under state control, and the other part is that the other part, the network or even the producer's part, if we are talking about the energy sector, at what level or to what extent we can bring it under state management. In the producer sector, private ownership, non-state ownership and network operation are still still likely to be at the highest level. This part of the network itself is affected by this law. Here he tries to intervene with regard to reporting, which fills an old deficiency. However, we do not know how this fine will be imposed, how it will be recovered and what purpose it will be used through a fine. [[13.20]] There is also a contrast that we thought was discovered here, while the government is even trying to force these data on the part of the network operators by way of fines, while on another side the government is increasingly narrowing the range of accessible data and documentation available as public interest data in more and more sectors. This happened not so long ago with regard to the contracts in the energy sector, but I could also mention the Posta, or something else, the Hungarian National Bank, which was also a famous bill... [[The sound is ringing.]]
u2016-09-14-72	Congressman, if you'll excuse me, please check your phone to see if it's not your phone. Thank you very much. Forgive me for interrupting.
u2016-09-14-73	I don't have the device. I don't know what's causing the problem. The range of data available as data of general interest is shrinking, which may be of some concern, as there are also contracts with which data and information can give society an accurate picture of how public wealth is used. Once again, we are talking about an information system for the e-communication, where virtually the data of network operators are colliding. In this respect, there is a clear interest in providing as much information as possible to decision-makers. However, once again, there is a contradiction between the two that the interest of society in having access to contracts concerning their use of public funds, and information that is public in the public interest, and which is clearly public because decisions where public funds are used and public data are managed, is not considered to be fortunate here either, and often with a political motive, to narrow the scope of these data. Returning to the e-Utility system and short-term [[It's a loud sound.]] - because the technique does not seem to want me to continue this discussion for a long time - we see the doubt in this bill, and we continue to feel it, I hope, and then Mr Secretary of State will dissolve it in his locker, which is why we cannot support it with good conscience, because here information, network management information, is being centralised at a level where data can be used in both positive and negative directions, and the possibility of abuse is naturally given. The other, with which I began, is that the government decree on fines is not known, and in view of that, it is again quite difficult to support such a proposal. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2016-09-14-74	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. An independent Member wishing to speak first could speak, but they do not take part in the debate. I wonder if anyone else would like to speak on the agenda. [[There's no candidate.]] I do not see a speaker or a candidate, and therefore the general debate is closed. I will ask the Secretary of State if he wishes to respond to what has been said in the debate. [[For signal:]] Yes, the floor is yours, Mr. Secretary.
u2016-09-14-75	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Just a few suggestions. On the one hand, thank you very much for your supporting contributions. The codification errors indicated by Congressman Józsa will be improved by my colleagues, and by the time the matter reaches the vote, I hope that you will be able to correct them in a satisfactory way. However, the issue of the level of sanctions will be regulated by the organisations concerned in an official regulation. I would like to point out to Mr Kepli, as regards information, that there are areas where it is important for the State to protect certain information, where public companies appear as competitors on the market as other competitors on the market, but this story does not fall within this sphere, has not been affected by this question. The use of sanctioned revenues is still regulated by law. With these three additions, I ask the Parliament to adopt the relevant legislative amendment. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the Fidesz ranks.]]
u2016-09-14-76	Thank you very much, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, The amendments may be submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of today's agenda. It is now time for the speeches after the agenda. After the agenda, Mr Benedek, Member of the LMP Group, spoke with Mr Róbert Sallai on the protection of our grasslands and pastures. I give you the floor, Congressman, within a five-minute time frame.
u2016-09-14-77	[[Without sound:]] I'm sorry, I thought I wasn't gonna be the first.
u2016-09-14-78	Of course, I have made an exchange of order, because Dániel Z. Kárpát, the other Member, is not in the Chamber, so I have decided to give you the opportunity. Here you go.
u2016-09-14-79	[[Without sound:]] Thank you very much. I'm a little unprepared, thank you very much. Hungary and the Carpathian Basin are basically...
u2016-09-14-80	Congressman, please place your card, because without it, we can't put the room on speaker. [[An intervention from Jobbik's ranks: But not the credit card!]] We'll wait for you to put it in a safe place, put it in the time frame, reboot.
u2016-09-14-81	I apologize for the technical problems, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, Due to the geographical situation of the Carpathian Basin, Hungary has maintained grasslands of outstanding importance in this zone of Eurasia over the past centuries. Traditional grazing livestock, the uncontrolled nature of rivers, and the huge grasslands formed on the cone of rivers have both defined the image of the Carpathian Basin, thus determining the development of the Hungarian nation and society. Many of our ethnographic traditions, the many of our traditions of animal farming and landscape use, are clearly linked to grasslands, grazing, traditional plumbing and semi-silaj livestock systems. However, the recent period - and I can mention in particular the 26 years since the change of regime here - has questioned the possibility of maintaining our grasslands in a very, very many ways. This is important because it is not only a legal background in Hungary, it is not only a legal environment in Hungary that requires Hungary to do so, but also the European Parliament and Council Regulation (EU) No 1307/2013 makes it compulsory to preserve our grasslands on the basis of support schemes under the common agricultural policy. However, let's see what happened to Hungary's lawns! In 1990 almost 1.2 million hectares of grassland were still available in Hungary. Ten years later, in 2000, Hungary was still able to farm 1 million 50,000 hectares of grass. By 2010 - unfortunately, that ten years defined the introduction of the EU agricultural policy, the establishment of support schemes and Hungary's system of support - unfortunately, this has already fallen to 762,000 hectares. Between 2000 and 2010, we lost another nearly 300,000 hectares of grassland in Hungary. Depending on 2011 and the Fidesz change of government, the deceleration has stopped a bit, and now the further decline can only be made to a thousand hectares, and with 758 thousand hectares of grassland we are trying to keep our chances of what will happen to these habitats. At the moment, in Hungary, the prohibition created by the aforementioned rules of the European Parliament and Council Regulation and the possibilities provided for by the Hungarian rules on lawn harvesting would give us the opportunity and the obligation to maintain our grasslands without further delay. Unfortunately, there is no legal background for this in Hungary. In Hungary, grasslands and pastures - as well as ploughs - are affected by a general regulation, unlike forest regulation. In the regulation of forests, the Hungarian Parliament recognised well before that the size of Hungary's forest areas should not be reduced. Therefore, it required that if a forest area is to be withdrawn and removed, it must be planted in even double quantities, so that this area would not be reduced. Unfortunately, this is not the case in Hungary, and today, on a daily basis, during the summer, we have seen in several places in the Great Plain that various agricultural investments are destroying lawns from EU subsidies. They're undercover. Now, as the commercial value of agricultural land is significantly higher in the agricultural structure, the vast majority of greenfield investments are also targeted at grasslands. In order to stop these processes, I would like to ask for the support of Parliament and the support of my fellow pro-government Members. In my opinion, not only does EU legislation create this need, but the Hungarian national traditions, the Hungarian landscape and the natural heritage of the Carpathian Basin also require that we preserve our lawns and do not allow them to decrease further. [[13.30]] I therefore ask the Parliament's Committee on Agriculture, with a legislative amendment proposal and a legislative intention, to include in the series of articles the legislative amendment proposal that would stop the decline of grasslands. I ask the Parliament, whether with amendments or with concrete proposals from governments, to help create the possibility for legislative amendments which I have initiated to create the possibility of implementing the EU obligations, which we are currently pushing with relatively many feet at the moment, and the various articles of this regulation are being violated in many respects, as far as possible, from Article 40. The amount of our permanent grassland, which in turn is already the 92/43. It sets out the maintenance of grasslands on the basis of a European Union directive and would give this country almost an obligation. I'm asking you to help me and support me in this. Thank you for the floor, Mr President.
u2016-09-14-82	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Mr Dániel Z. Kárpát, Member of the Jobbik Group, also came forward after the agenda. I'll give you the floor in a five-minute time frame.
u2016-09-14-83	Mr President, Dear House, Under the cover of the migration crisis, Hungary may have an even bigger problem, and this is precisely about whether we will have enough border hunting in the future, whether we will have enough self-defense citizens to protect this country, because population loss has grown to such tragic proportions that seem to be slowly unmanageable, at least with current government tools. It can be seen that fewer people were born in the first six months of 2016 than in the same period of the previous year, although fortunately, natural weight loss decreased, as fewer people died. We have to tell you, our 35,000 population loss two years ago, which then climbed up to 40,000, is going to amount to the same magnitude this year. I wish I didn't. At the same time, I have to say once again that this whole story is about whether there will be reinforcements from Hungarian citizens, border hunters, people who make this country flourish, pay taxes here, or whether the country decides to emigration. Speaking of migration issues, Jobbik would like to reiterate that, of course, it encourages non-voting and participation, but at the same time we must say that Viktor Orbán and his government are playing an amazing gamble, because if this referendum becomes invalid, they will place a tactical nuclear weapon in Brussels' hands, as the bureaucrats in Brussels can say that Hungary has not said a clear and valid no to this issue in the expected way. So this is part of the stakes of this reference, so let us not put a tactical nuclear weapon in Brussels' hands. But back to our basic theme, which is basically the result of all our problems, it can be said that this government is unable to show success in slowing down the rate of population loss. It is very harsh that, although the system of family tax incentives has been extended, it has not been possible to find a powerful tool that would substantially reduce weight loss. The home-building and rental-building programme proposed by Jobbik has not been considered at all. In fact, what is even more outrageous, the Fidesz faction issued a communication on this matter, where it called the massive increase in social or other apartments particularly dangerous in the midst of the migration crisis, the migration of Hungary, so it linked two things that were seemingly so uncoordinated, but in any case this faction sought a permanent pretext for the migration crisis in order to postpone the issue of national strategic importance that could contribute to keeping Hungarian young people, Hungarian citizens and Hungarian taxpayers at home. The extent to which this is necessary is clearly demonstrated by the statistics published in the recent issue of Korfa, according to which the proportion of emigrants who seriously plan to emigrate is the largest among those with emigration plans and is outstandingly high, 67 percent among those who already have previous migration experience, so it is clear that the withdrawal effect is continuous, so that Hungarian citizens should compete at least in such a way that they can live and work in a safe, predictable environment at home. For although we cannot compete with three to four or five times Western wages, this is not an objective, many Hungarian citizens would stay home and choose to thrive here at the price of raising their current salary to a tolerated level. Therefore, one of Jobbik's main directions in the coming months is to work out the background of the general wage increase, so how Hungarians can get decent wages for what they do. At the same time, it is not possible to miss the importance of a home-building and rental-building programme, as 41-42 thousand new properties are still not built every year, only a few thousand are reported, CSOK and other discounts or state-owned piloting, and NOK is addressed only to the luckier and upper sections of society. Typically, the simple Hungarian citizen is excluded from the beneficiaries, although there would be a huge, painful need for a large number of tens of thousands of apartments in a crisis where the tens of thousands of people who have suffered from foreign exchange credit are being taken away from their properties, when foreign currency lending is apparently no longer on paper, yet we can see that there are about 70,000 of the more than 140,000 people in distress facing eviction in the coming years. In fact, the only obstacle to this process is the fact that in many cases no buyer will apply for the property in question. So it is not the goodwill of the banks and not the government, but it is still the market conditions that hold up this process most, but it can be seen that with fair planning, with a home creation programme, with a comprehensive wage increase, with a production support tax system, this situation could indeed be translated. To give Jobbik a little ammunition for this, we resubmit our proposal to reduce the VAT on child rearing articles. We expect the government to support this, too, in order to finally deliver results on the most important battlefield. This would be the slowing down and halting of the Hungarian population loss and then reversing the negative process. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2016-09-14-84	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speeches after the agenda. Thank you for your work. The Parliament will meet next week at 11 a.m. Meeting day's closed. [[Meeting ended at 1:37 p.m.]]
