u2016-05-11-0	[[The people in this room stand up and greet the voters' community. When the chairman of the meeting takes his seat, the people in the room will sit down.]] Dear Parliament, The 24th day of the spring session of the Parliament is hereby opened. I would like to inform you that István Tiba and István Ikotity will be taking part in this meeting. Welcome to our guests and everyone who's watching our work. Dear Parliament, A general debate on the draft law on Hungary's central budget for 2017 and the submission of the State Audit Office's opinion will be launched. The bill is T/10377. Opinion of the State Audit Office T/10377/4. can be found on the website. Dear Parliament, Allow me to welcome Mr László Domokos, President of the State Audit Office and Mr Árpád Kovács, President of the Fiscal Council, to the hearing. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] I would like to inform you that during the hearing of the bill, the Committee on Budgets shall act in the jurisdiction of the Legislative Committee. Dear Parliament, I would like to remind you that the Parliament has decided to negotiate the proposal within a 30-hour timeframe. The agenda recommendation shall be appended to the allocation of timeframes. I would like to ask Mr István Tiba to present the distribution of the time frame of the factions available today and the main rules of the debate. Mr. Messenger!
u2016-05-11-1	Dear Parliament, Today's 16 hours 30 minutes timeframe is divided into 339 minutes for the Fidesz Group, 156 minutes for the KDNP Group, 188 minutes for the MSZP Group, 170 minutes for the Jobbik Group, 101 minutes for the LMP Group and 36 minutes for the independent Members. The time limits provided for the factions include the 30-30 minutes lead speakers. I would like to inform you that the unused time frame for negotiations available on each sitting cannot be carried over to the next day.
u2016-05-11-2	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, I would like to inform you that Members of the European Parliament with a political background, if they have indicated their intention to speak to the particular faction, may speak against the time frame of the factions. Members of the European Parliament who do not have a political background and who sign up directly may use a speaking time equal to the speaking time for an independent Member. The voice of the minority spokesperson invited by the Committee on Nationalities in Hungary will take place on Wednesday and Thursday 30-30 minutes, in total 60 minutes, which will not be included in the timeframe. Dear Parliament, Today, in the general debate, the opening speech will take place in a total of 40 minutes' time, in a 30-minute time frame for the speech of the President of the State Audit Office, the speech of the President of the Board of Budgets will take place in a 30-minute time frame, the speech of the political groups will also be given in 30-30 minutes, the speech of the first independent Member will be given within a 15-minute time frame, the speech of the minority advocate invited by the Committee of Nationalities in Hungary for a 30-minute period, and further speeches will be given to the time frame of each faction. Dear Parliament, I would like to inform you that the amendment to the Finance Act is subject to the 29th Act of the Resolution. A proposal may be made on Thursday at 16 a.m. using a form ordered pursuant to paragraph 2 of Section 2. This is available on the IT network. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr Mihály Varga, Minister of National Economy, rapporteur on the agenda, in a 40-minute time frame. Mr. Secretary.
u2016-05-11-3	Thank you. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, The third budgetary proposal of the parliamentary term is now before you, and I am talking about the 2014-2018 cycle, which, I think, has a slightly different starting point and different objectives from previous budgets. I can also say that a new chapter and a new perspective will be opened in Hungarian economic policy. After all, let us think for a minute about the situation in which we need to plan and create this budget: the economy is growing, we are reducing debt for decades year after year, there is hardly any inflation, minimum wage and average wage increases, pensions are rising, the currency is stable, and we have not had as many people in the country as in 2016. Dear House, Predictability and security: this is what characterizes the 2017 budget bill, which is a budget for tax reduction and home creation. The excellent economic performance of recent years has enabled us to plan a stable budget for 2017, which ensures that all Hungarians can take a step forward. When planning the 2017 budget, the basic idea of civilisation was one of the most important aspects, another essential element of the bill before you, to ensure the safety of families. Government economic policy continues the path of stability and predictability. With the use of new instruments, it supports balanced economic growth, is committed to further reducing public debt, and with its measures to increase employment, improve competitiveness and strengthen families, while keeping the government deficit to a permanent below 3 per cent gross domestic product. I would like to draw attention to the fact that the 2017 budget has been made in a new structure and, unlike in the past, it is divided into three areas: domestic operational and domestic development expenditure and revenue, as well as EU development expenditure and revenue, appear separately in this document. One of the objectives of next year's budget is to ensure that the state operates without shortage, i.e. only to use as much as the State can cover from revenue. The deficit, the deficit, appeared only in order to finance development and investment. For this reason, next year's budget expects a 3.1 percent economic growth, 0.9 percent inflation and 2.4 percent general government deficit according to the EU methodology. Let me add that there is a complete identity with the European Commission and other international institutions in this regard; for a long time and a half now, the previously unusual situation has emerged to judge the prospects of the Hungarian economy in the same way as these institutions. For example, the European Commission in its last spring country report also considers our growth to be 2.5 percent this year, and also around 3 percent in 2017. Dear House, As required by the Act on Economic Stability of Hungary, the debt ratio is reduced to 71,9 percent, which is 1.6 percentage points lower than in 2016. [[8.10]] Here again, let me make a parentheses comment: the debate that is currently going on with Eurostat, the statistical office of the European Union, on how we account for the operation of different financial institutions, has not yet affected us. We need to have this professional debate with the competent institutions, and then we need the numbers of this, if necessary, to be translated. Dear House, As in recent years, the 2017 Budget Bill has been drawn up in a conservative manner. In order to avoid unforeseen risks, the government has once again created two types of central reserves. The special government measures of HUF 60 billion and the general reserve amount of HUF 110 billion are available. The system of reserves is further strengthened by the stability reserve trained per budget heading. This was set at a total of HUF 35 billion. These chapter reserves may be spent if the figures are set in an appropriate manner by October. Dear Parliament, Allow me to start by presenting the 2017 budget proposal with a macroeconomic picture. Thanks to the government's responsible economic policy, Hungary has been able to deliver outstanding economic performances year after year since 2013. As a result of favourable fiscal and real economic developments, the performance of the Hungarian economy increased by 3.7 percent in 2014 and 2.9 percent last year. The expansion is not only dynamic but also balanced and sustainable. This means that favourable trends are not driven by a re-indebtedness wave, as balance indicators are also developing positively. This is clearly reflected by the fact that in 2015 the external trade balance exceeded EUR 8 billion and the general government deficit was much lower than the EU rate of 3%. These processes are forecast to continue, mainly due to sustained high growth. At the same time as the positive economic recovery, there have been positive developments in the labour market, and we hope that they will survive and even grow, as both the economically active and the number of people working will increase in the next year. As a result, the number of people employed will continue to increase and the unemployment rate will decrease at around 5 per cent in 2017. I would just like to remind you that in 2010, the unemployment rate was 11,8%, and now we have reached the 6 percent level, and we hope that it will continue in the next year. In addition to exports, domestic demand will also strongly support economic growth and a dynamic increase in consumption next year. By removing foreign exchange loans, the population has been freed from exchange rate risk and the situation of households has stabilised, which increasingly supports consumption. Here, let me just give you two numbers, fellow Members. More than 70 percent of retail loans were foreign exchange-based in 2010. Now this is down to 1 percent, so now only those who are likely to have income in foreign currency hold foreign currency loans in the household. In addition to the favourable processes in the domestic labour market, the government also strongly supports the growth of consumption through its various measures, the VAT of many products and services is reduced, the new career models and wage measures that continue and start in the public sector. In addition to consumption, investments will also increase next year. The run-up of the family home creation discount will give a significant increase and boost to the housing market, especially in 2017 and 2018. More effective use of EU funds than ever before will help businesses to invest in economic recovery. In addition, economic growth is supported by a low inflation environment. The consumer price index has fallen to an unprecedented level in recent years, taking into account this low inflation is expected in 2016 and 2017. In conclusion, in the macroeconomic projections taken into account in the planning of the 2017 budget, the government expects the sustainable and stable growth of the Hungarian economy, coupled with a moderate inflation environment. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, One of the most important tasks of the government is to strengthen and reduce the tax burden of Hungarian families. Therefore, the 2017 budget will be a budget for tax reductions and home creation, while preserving all of our achievements so far. Allow me to explain the most important measures of the proposal before you. Tax cuts are one of the most important cornerstones of government policy. From 1 January 2017, VAT on the main foodstuffs, fresh milk, poultry and eggs will be reduced to 5 per cent, continuing to reduce VAT on pigmeat already in 2016. It also reduces the tax burden on the population by reducing the key to restaurant services and internet access to 18%. Let me add that we hope to continue to reduce these keys after 2017. The stable budget and predictable economic policy of previous years have enabled the government to announce the largest home creation programme in recent decades. We believe that the existence of your own home is one of the most important prerequisites for civil setting up. Next year, the HUF 211 billion programme will not only stimulate economic growth, but also contribute to the achievement of national strategic objectives such as halting and reversing negative demographic trends and keeping skilled workers at home. The positive social and economic impact of the home-building programme will be achieved in the longer term by increasing birth rates and improving the situation of young people who are about to start a family. The new home creation programme means, on the one hand, the benefit of families, in short, the CSOK and the related interest-supported loan, and, on the other hand, the reduction of housing VAT and the promotion of national home-building communities. Dear House, Next year, the family tax system based on the appreciation of labour and child rearing will remain unchanged. The incomes are borne by one of Europe's lowest personal income tax rates, and the government continues to help raise children with the family tax reduction. What does that mean? For the two children, in 2017 the amount will increase by HUF 2500 per child to HUF 15 000. The annual income of a family with two children can thus rise by up to HUF 60,000, and the measure will improve the income situation of the affected 390 thousand taxpayers by nearly HUF 15 billion per year. The draft budget for next year will provide additional resources for all disciplines. He will receive HUF 270 billion for education, HUF 167 billion for health care, HUF 155 billion for social security and welfare, HUF 66 billion for cultural activities and HUF 22 billion for sports and leisure sectors in 2016. [[8.20]] In the education sector, we provide the necessary resources for completing the teacher's career model and career development system, for the balanced performance of public education institutions and vocational training centres, as well as for infrastructure development, for the wage-setting of higher education teachers, researchers and teachers, and for the increasing amount of scholarships for doctoral students, as well as for investments to improve the quality of higher education. As I mentioned to you, this is an extra 270 billion forints in 2017. The government further expands the free textbook supply to support families in need. By 2017, all secondary school students and students in the fifth grade will have access to free textbooks. The provision of free textbooks, adapted to the number of students, will continue to apply to church legal persons organising religious and moral education, which will now be awarded to students from the 2016-17 academic year to all primary education courses. From 1 September 2015, the possibility of free dining in nursery and kindergarten institutions has been significantly increased, and from 2016 the government will ensure that children in need are fed at all holidays, so they can get hot food every day. These measures will further reduce the burden on families in relation to child rearing and contribute to the healthy development of the future generation. Dear House, The government is therefore committed to providing adequate care for children. It is a general government objective that every Hungarian person who wants and is able to make a living on the salary he receives for his work. The primary objective of our employment policy is to implement the principle of employment instead of aid, in parallel with the large expansion of employment. The transformation of the aid system has led to an increasing number of people in need of social cash benefits. One of the main directions for structural change in employment in the future is to create a transition from public employment to competition. The government intends to use a number of measures to ensure that job seekers do not get caught up in public employment, but that they are able to work as much as possible in the competitive sector, supported by state aid. The measures taken to estimate public service workers will continue in 2017. With the help of career models and wage increases, the government ensures predictability for workers. With an average increase of 30 per cent from July 2015 and an increase of 5 per cent in 2016, the wages of soldiers and police officers will increase by an additional 5 per cent from 2017 onwards. In 2017 the budget will cover a total increase of 40 percent of HUF 139.3 billion. From July 2016, the state officials' career model will begin, first in the district and then from 1 January 2017 in the county government offices. In 2017 HUF 42.2 billion is available. At the National Tax and Customs Office, the government is introducing a three-stage career, with a HUF 27.5 billion coverage included in next year's budget bill. They also benefit from wage development in the healthcare, social and cultural sectors and continue to raise wages for teachers as set out in the career model. In the case of the former, in the case of health care, the social sphere and the cultural sector, wage reconciliations have not yet been completed, so I cannot give an exact number, but the coverage, however, I must stress, is available for this career model and career catching up. Dear Parliament, The government will continue to prioritise the use of EU funds. More than half of the available grants for the period 2014-20 will be announced in 2016 and the remaining funds will be tendered from the beginning of 2017. The priority is to make development resources available to beneficiaries as soon as possible. This will allow beneficiaries to use most of the funds by the end of 2018, avoiding previous practice that a significant part of the funds could only be paid at the end of the EU financial period. It is well known that the government is spending 60 percent of its development resources on economic development based on increasing employment and competitiveness. EU funds and associated national co-financing will continue to make a significant contribution to the development of health, education, employment policy, but will also play a prominent role in achieving transport, environmental and territorial and rural development objectives. In addition to the HUF 2240 billion EU resource use, we plan to spend an additional HUF 1600 billion from Hungarian sources to support the development. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Next, I would like to say a few words about the management situation of central budgetary bodies and local authorities. With regard to the functioning of the public sector, the primary government objective of cutting red tape is to strengthen the service character of the public administration, along with the concept of a good state, and to increase institutional efficiency. This means, in particular, simplifying the administration and reducing the deadlines and costs of the office. In rationalising central offices and background institutions, consideration should be given to the various directions and ways of restructuring, as well as to personal benefits and related contributions, and to reducing them. Of these, nearly HUF 32 billion will be saved by the budget bill, which we intend to enforce by imposing the obligation to pay the budget bodies concerned. As in previous years, general principles for the financing of municipalities will be reflected in the budget bill in 2017. These include support for families and measures to further increase employment, while raising the standard of living. In 2013, the government created the possibility of effectively organising tasks, rethinking the division of tasks between the state and the local government. At the same time, the State has fully assumed the debt accumulated by local authorities over the past decades. The main objective of funding local authorities next year is predictability and stability. To this end, it is up to us to maintain a system of support linked to tasks and to create conditions for management without operational deficits. We continue to pay particular attention to the settlements in need of catching up, but it is also to be welcomed that, overall, local authorities are gaining more and more of their own revenue thanks to the favourable economic situation. In 2017, central resources could be concentrated in areas such as support for a small children's institution to help parents work, or wage arrangements for the social sector. In order for the coming years and decades to be successful, particular attention must continue to be paid to the proper education and care of the young generation, as the future will be based on the next generation. I would like to start by talking about the food for children in this regard, which the government is paying particular attention to. In this area, it is exemplary to raise budgetary resources, extend free nursery and kindergarten meals, and bring regulation to life to promote healthy nutrition. Next year, there will be even more resources to provide children's meals, as the initial budget for the holiday meal in 2016 will increase by HUF 2.2 billion. I would also like to stress that, in line with the government's family policy, the day-to-day care of children will be structurally changed in 2017. This means that it will be mandatory to provide intraday care for young children even in smaller settlements if there is a need for it. Significant EU funds are available to transform crèches into family nurserys in crèches, and the budget provides additional resources for the maintenance of new institutions, including work crèches. I would just like to emphasise here that there is about HUF 80 billion in funding for this, so we see a significant increase in space with the cooperation of the municipalities. [[8.30]] I would like to point out that, from 2016 onwards, young children with a tertiary education are already part of the teacher's career model. At the same time, the government considers it very important to recognise the work of those who had not yet had the opportunity to study in higher education decades ago, so next year the wage arrangement of nursery nurses will also begin. Dear House, All in all, municipalities can manage nearly HUF 2800 billion in the following year without a loan source, for which the central budget grants more than HUF 668 billion. The management of the Pension and Health Insurance Fund, the two financial bases of social security, is an integral part of the 2017 budget. Allow me to say a few words about this. The balance of the budget of the Pension Insurance Fund is also ensured in 2017. The Fund's revenues are mainly derived from two sources, the share of the social contribution tax on the fund and the payment of insurance contributions. The contribution of the budget to the Fund's supply expenditure will not be necessary in 2017. The Fund's revenue will fully cover the expenditure envisaged. This has rarely been the case in recent decades, and I can now safely say, after the last few years, that we have started to operate so that this pension fund can function without any shortage. I should also stress that, as in recent years, we are preserving the real value of pensions. Accordingly, benefits will increase to the same extent as the increase in consumer prices projected in the budget in January 2017. In addition to increasing the amount of pensions, reducing the VAT on the most important food is also a significant help for pensioners, as pensioners consume more of the most important food, thus reducing prices is even more expensive for them. In addition to old-age pension benefits, the government will pay special attention to the role of women in the family in 2017 and will ensure that women with 40 years of working relationship have access to the age limit and cover it. Dear House, The government respects the dignity of old age, resulting in a steady decline in the number of older people living in difficult conditions. However, these persons will also have the opportunity to set a fair-quality pension in 2017. In the 2017 budget of the Health Insurance Fund, we calculated a balance between revenue and expenditure, also here, as in the pension fund, as in previous years. Most of the Fund's revenue, 74 per cent, is provided by contributions and contributions, and the rest by budgetary contributions and other revenue. The Fund has two key expenditures: financial and health insurance benefits in kind. The highest amount of cash benefits is disability rehabilitation benefits. In addition, baby-care and childcare premiums and sick pay are of crucial importance. The most important of the benefits in kind comes from curative and preventive care. Compared to this year, the additional resource that can be used for this purpose is HUF 40.4 billion, which serves, inter alia, the development of primary care and public health, the improvement of the funding standards of health institutions, the replacement of high-value, marked medicines, the reception of overcapacity and other funding surpluses. An additional HUF 17 billion increase in the appropriation is justified by the structural change in the budget and by the transfer of funds to medicines. In addition to the above, the health sector of the Ministry of Human Resources chapter in 2017 includes an additional HUF 24 billion surplus, including changes in the residency and scholarship system, the introduction of a health sector incentive system, the replacement of a rescue service and the improvement of supply standards and quality of life in some projects, the development of the capital supply system. In order to improve the income situation of workers and doctors in the health sector, the wage increase is covered by the central provision of the budget. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, The government was based on maintaining stability, maintaining public debt on a declining path, a low government deficit and increasing employment and increasing economic performance in the development of the 2017 budget bill. In accordance with the legislation in force, the Budget Council and the State Audit Office could also establish their position on the document. The Council did not find any objections to the intended credibility and enforceability of the bill which would justify its disagreement with the proposal. The Budget Council concluded in its opinion that the planned deficit target of 2.4 per cent is in line with the European Union's fiscal rules and the Stability Act. At the same time, he considered it necessary to increase the appropriation of the National Defence Fund, which was accepted by the government, so that a higher amount had already been included in the bill submitted. The Court made a number of positive statements on the draft and made comments on only a few points. Ladies and gentlemen, Allow me to express my thanks to the Budget Council and the State Audit Office for their work in monitoring the 2017 Budget Bill. Dear Parliament, In recent years, the civilian government has successfully led Hungary out of the crisis, economic times have come to an end in Hungary, and a period of lasting growth has come. We still have a lot of work to do to consolidate civil Hungary in the long term, and this is what the 2017 budget serves. I therefore ask you to discuss, accept and, if possible, support the bill on the 2017 budget. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-05-11-4	Thank you very much, Minister, for your speech. Dear Parliament, I now give the floor to Mr László Domokos, President of the State Audit Office, in a 30-minute timeframe. Mr. President, please.
u2016-05-11-5	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and Gentlemen, Dear Minister, Mr. Secretary of State! Mr. President. Ladies and Gentlemen, Since 1990, this year's 27th, when the State Audit Office takes an opinion on the budget bill. However, we cannot consider this a routine task, since Hungary, an important condition for the growth of the Hungarian people, is that the Parliament adopts a sound budget. It is an honour for the State Audit Office to be entrusted with this task by the Law on him, since perhaps few know that very few countries have any powers in the process of adopting the budget. The State Audit Office seeks to fulfil this challenging task as best it can. Therefore, in 2014 a new methodology was developed and published for monitoring the budgetary law. Our current opinion in front of you or on your computer monitor is based on this new methodology. The aim of the methodological renewal was to enable the SAO not only to comment on the draft budget bill in general or by highlighting a single element, but also to provide a clear and verified professional response to the question of whether the draft budget law is well founded. [[8.40]] Our ambition for a firm opinion came to a new milestone this year, as the State Audit Office of Hungary prepared its opinion for Parliament in the new format of the Court's reports. By establishing the new reporting format, the SAO's aim was to provide a clear answer to all our reports on the questions posed by the audit. The opinion in the new format begins with a summary. It also highlights the main findings and conclusions on the same page. Following the introductory parts, the opinion contains the findings of the SAO audit in points. Finally, Annex II is amended as follows: and III. Annexes 1 and 2 contain the risks identified and quantified by the audit and therefore do not need to be read between the lines by those who would like to know the opinion of the SAO. The audit on the basis of the opinion of the State Court of Auditors is in line with the relevant provisions of the State Court of Auditors Act, and asked two main questions. Was the draft budget bill drawn up in accordance with the legal requirements? Our second question is whether the budget bill is well-founded, whether the appropriations for revenue can be met. I quote the SAO's clear and firm response from the summary of the opinion. On the one hand, the bill, with the exception of one requirement, meets the requirements laid down in the Fundamental Law, the Act on the Economic Stability of Hungary and the Public Finance Act. On the other hand, revenue appropriations may be made provided that the overall budget bill is well-founded and that the macroeconomic forecast taken into account in the budget planning is fulfilled. The substance of the opinion of the State Audit Office can therefore be summarised in the above three sentences. However, the well-founded statement of these three sentences is the result of weeks of hard work not only on the part of the audit auditors but also on the part of the ministerial staff drawing up the draft budget bill. I would like to thank you all for your work here before the Parliament. The drafting of the budget bill is an increasingly difficult task, but this should be welcomed, as the difficulty of the task is caused by the tightening of requirements. These requirements can be divided into two categories: transparency requirements and content requirements. Both are both important and even reinforcing each other, because if the budget is not transparent, there will be confusion about possible non-compliance with the content requirements. Our audit found that the transparency requirements were met, i.e. the budget bill, including its justification, contains all the information required by the laws and, indeed, more than that. The State Audit Office considers it an important step forward, not from a substantive point of view, but from a transparency point of view, that the bill splits appropriations into three groups: domestic operation, with a zero balance; domestic accumulation, with a deficit of nearly 700 billion; EU development budget, which can provide its expenditure side with a loan of more than HUF 460 billion. Since then, all interested parties can know which forints of public money will be used for operation, accumulation and development related to the EU programme. The substantive requirements for the draft budget bill have increased significantly in recent years, as part of the rules imposed by the European Union have been incorporated in the Act on the Economic Stability of Hungary in addition to the government debt rules laid down in the Fundamental Law, i.e. they are also required by Hungarian laws to comply with them. The audit of the State Audit Office confirms that the government debt rule is fulfilled in the implementation of the 2017 budget under the bill. Of course, we are not saying this on the basis of the four figures in the bill, the GDP and government debt expected for 2016, as well as the GDP and government debt forecast for 2017 were distributed to each other, and we obtained the same result as the national one, but we verified in detail whether the calculation of the expected and forecast government debt was carried out on a well-founded basis, e.g. building on reliable data. At the same time, the accuracy of the GDP forecast has not been verified by the SAO, as the assessment of the correctness of the economic projections does not fall within the competence of the SAO. Therefore, we have carried out a sensitivity assessment of the extent to which GDP growth would still meet the sovereign debt rule with the planned level of government debt. Our calculations have led to the fulfilment of the debt rule, with all other factors unchanged, even in the event of a 1.6 percent increase in GDP, i.e. in terms of the constitutional requirement for the reduction of public debt, the draft budget bill contains a relatively significant implicit reserve. The budget bill also meets the requirement that the government sector balance calculated according to the EU methodology should not be less favourable than the 3% of GDP deficit. In establishing this, it was assumed that the bill establishes the absence of the central subsystem at HUF 1166.4 billion, which corresponds to 3.1 percent of forecast GDP. Chapter V of the general statement of reasons for the bill provides a detailed description of the relationship and extent of this balance between the deficit of the government sector, as set out in section 479/2009. It shall be calculated in accordance with the EC Regulation. According to the report, the ratio of the government sector's thus calculated deficit to the projected gross domestic product in percentage is 2.4 per cent, which is more favourable to the Act on Economic Stability 3/A. 3 per cent as defined in paragraph 2 (b). The legal requirement is therefore fulfilled. The justification of the bill also indicates that according to government calculations, the structural deficit, i.e. the government sector's balance cleared from the effects of the economic cycle and individual items, amounts to 2.1 percent of GDP in 2017. This is important because the medium-term budgetary objective should be set for the structural balance. Hungary's current convergence programme for the period 2016-2020 set the medium-term deficit target at 1.5 percent of GDP by 2017, with a greater deficit of 2.1 percent of the structural deficit. Consequently, the Economic Stability Act 3/A is not fulfilled. Paragraph 2 (2) (a) provides that the balance of the government sector must be determined in such a way that it is consistent with the achievement of the medium-term budgetary objective. The lack of consistency, however, does not entail a sanction. However, in the planning of the budgets of the coming years, the medium-term deficit target will therefore need to be pursued more strongly. The justification of the central budget bill has been established on the basis of a detailed monitoring of the planning of the so-called decisive appropriations for the budget, for example, all appropriations which amount to 0.5 per cent of the total revenue and expenditure of the central subsystem have been thoroughly checked. However, our audit does not cover the thousands of smaller budget items, as the less favourable development of one of them than the other does not substantially affect the lack of a budget. With this approach, the State Audit Office has verified the validity of 90% of the revenue appropriations of the draft budget and 82,8 percent of its expenditure appropriations, on the basis of documentation provided by the bodies which plan the appropriations. [[8.50]] Our audit found that 99.2 percent of the expenditure appropriations audited are well-founded, 0.5 percent is partially well-founded and 0.3 percent is not well-founded. Ninety-nine percent of the audited revenue appropriations are well-founded and only 0.1 percent, which is partially well-founded. Annex 1 to the written opinion of the State Court of Auditors describes in detail when an appropriation is considered to be justified, partially justified or not justified on the basis of our public methodology. On the basis of the above rates, the State Audit Office has declared the entire draft budget bill to be sound. In the next step of the audit, we will try to quantify the risks arising from the unfounded nature of each budget. Our audit considers it risky to meet the revenue allocation of HUF 5.6 billion and identified the risk that individual expenditure would exceed the planned appropriations by a total amount of HUF 62.7 billion. This, by the way, is on page 52 of our opinion. In addition, the chapter of the Ministry of National Development identified significant risks associated with the allocation of expenditure for litigation cases in the case of a high-value litigation. However, this could not be quantified, as it depends on the length of the lawsuit and its outcome whether the Hungarian State will have a payment obligation in 2017 and what amount it will be. We have identified a revenue risk for the Norwegian Fund because of the known disputes, but this does not pose a risk to the budget deficit, as no payments will be made in the event of the Fund's income being lost. Expenditure appropriations are spent on appropriations which may be exceeded in the course of the year without amending the law. These are very graphically referred to as "open appropriations" in the jargon. These appropriations are also subject to specific checks by the State Audit Office for their high risk. This year, for four appropriations, it was necessary to establish that, on the basis of data from previous years and other factors, the amount of planned appropriations was lower than expected. This and another small item generate a total risk of HUF 62.7 billion. This shall not exceed the amount of reserves set out in the budget. Nevertheless, Parliament should consider reducing risks in another way, for example by raising appropriations to a certain extent. Despite the relatively low estimated risk, I would like to draw attention once again to the general risk posed by the high rate of appropriations opened from above for the entire budget bill. The amount of expenditure appropriations opened from above shall be allocated to 53,3% of the budget expenditure. This is a very high rate, which has a negative impact on the transparency and accountability of budget implementation. In our view, the problem is that some expenditure, such as payments under such legislation or judicial decisions, must be paid even if the appropriations for their payment are already exhausted. For example, a specific reserve could be managed in a more controlled way to deal with these matters than to allow for automatic or government authorisation overruns of expenditure appropriations. Here we would like to mention another problem that has been mentioned regularly, as a major amendment has recently been made in order to resolve this. That's the problem with dealing with the end-of-the-year remains. During our inspections, we have found that the remains that have not been spent in a given year and can therefore be transferred to the following year will grow year after year and pose an increasing risk of overspending in the year we use them. The recent amendment to the Public Finance Act created the possibility for the government to use the most likely residuals for other purposes by making a decision during the year. This is of major importance for the feasibility of the 2017 budget, since if less remains can be transferred to 2017 in 2016, the amount used in 2017 may be less than the residual amount of the previous years. At the same time, the possibility of spending potential residues by mid-year strengthens and makes budget management more flexible, translating appropriations which cannot be used effectively in a given year for other useful, good purposes. The condition of budgetary management is also improved by the fact that three years' budget plans are also being prepared in addition to the annual budget. The government's mid-term revenue and expenditure plans for 2016-18 at central budget heading level are set at 2019-2015. The Government Decision of 29 December 2006 established the planned amount of the revenue, expenditure and balance of the central budget for the three years following the budget year. However, the government may deviate from the figures set out in this Decision when preparing budgets for each year. Therefore, the amounts set out in the Decision are mainly for wallets to implement their multiannual programmes. Based on this, we have expanded the audit programme of the State Audit Office with a new element this year, in which we checked whether the relevant wallets provided financial coverage for the implementation of five sectoral strategies that we have selected during the planning of the 2017 budget and the three-year planning. It has been established that there is a risk in achieving the objectives of the strategies that the necessary resources have not been fully planned. At the same time, I would consider it unilateral and unfair to highlight only the risks from the Court's opinion, through which it lists the appropriations and funds which the SAO's audit found sound. I would like to mention three of the positive factors. The first is that the budget will provide funding to co-finance and advance the large-scale use of EU funds. Second, it provides adequate coverage for the operation of the public education institution system, including vocational training institutions. Thirdly, it contains significant additional resources to reduce wage, liquidity and other tensions accumulated in health care. Dear Parliament, The third summary of the opinion of the State Court of Auditors is that revenue appropriations may be made provided that the macroeconomic forecasts taken into account in the budget planning are implemented. Two circumstances are reflected in the wording of our findings. The first is that the State Audit Office has not verified the adequacy of the macroeconomic projections underlying the budget bill. This is the task of the Fiscal Council. The second is that the State Audit Office has made a detailed audit of each of the corresponding revenue, in line with the government macroeconomic projections, taking into account the legislative amendments already known at the time of the audit. It is very positive that all the appropriations relating to tax revenue and to the exploitation of public property could be considered valid and feasible this year. This is in line with the trend over the years that tax revenues have become predictable partly as a result of the stabilisation of the tax system and partly as a result of measures taken to ensure the effectiveness of tax collection. [[9.00]] There is, of course, no guarantee that macroeconomic developments will develop in line with government projections, and it is therefore essential that a multi-component, flexible reserve system is included in the budget, which is suitable for addressing the risks that are currently realistic. The increasing transparency, flexibility and predictability of the budget will significantly increase the competitiveness of the Hungarian economy. In addition, the draft budget law reflects the fact that the state is more active in economic processes than before. This is demonstrated by the fact that the budget has more investment, economic development, co-financing and pre-financing of EU funds than in previous years. It does not matter at all how the central budget, i.e. the State's annual financial plan, contributes to increasing the country's economic competitiveness. Act on the State Audit Office 1. Pursuant to paragraph 4 of the Act: The State Audit Office shall assist the Parliament, its committees and the work of the audited organisations, with its findings, suggestions and advice based on the audit experience, in order to facilitate the functioning of the well-managed state. The SAO is linked to this advisory function in the context of the development of this opinion, also analysing the extent to which the adoption of the budget under the bill contributes to Hungary's increased competitiveness, in particular to the improvement of three indexes used in the report of the good state, characterised by the competitiveness of the economy. The analysis was not part of the control programme and therefore it was included in Annex IV. In Annex II, we have attached our opinion. Our analysis has shown that the three indicators, namely the ratio of tax revenues to GDP, the gross government debt-to-GDP ratio and the number of employees are changing positively in the direction of economic competitiveness according to the 2017 budget plans and projections. Dear Parliament, In my speech, I have so far limited myself to the presentation of the substance of the SAO's written opinion. However, the State Audit Office is the advisory body of Parliament, so it is justified that I evaluate the draft budget bill before Parliament from a broader perspective. I think that the 2017 budget will be the first one that no longer has to be considered a crisis budget. This budget may break with austerity fiscal policy and short-term thinking. It can also break with the many damaging previous practices in which the budget has set aside a little less than necessary for many tasks, and during the year the budget has had to be amended several times, or the institutions have been forced to reschedule investments, to pay bills from one year to the next. Breaking up with the view of the crisis budget is possible by two circumstances. The first is that the macroeconomic conditions of the budget are relatively favourable. Secondly, Hungary regained its independence in shaping its fiscal policy as a result of the efforts of the Parliament and the government. Of course, autonomy means not less, but more responsibility: with our surviving age, the Parliament can adopt a budget that provides the basis for its future, such as access to housing for families with children, the development of businesses, the financial security of the Hungarian government bond-buying population. I hope that the opinion of the State Audit Office has also contributed to the adoption by Parliament of a sound budget law, but at the same time establishing the basis for future sustainable development. If we have been talking about sustainability, which the UN resolution identifies as a priority for countries between 2015 and 30, let me give some thought to this key issue. The sustainability of positive processes is crucial for Hungary, Europe and the world in the next period. Here it is worth considering that negative trends in the world economy can also occur. Therefore, long-term operational commitments which become unfulfilled in a negative economic environment should not be included. One of the key issues of sustainability is how EU funds are used. These give a boost to the economy at the moment of their use, but later they become a burden to the country if they are not supported by self-sustaining or even unsupported organisations. However, sustainability must be seen as a basic requirement not only for the use of EU but also for domestic money. What does that mean? First of all, the fact that public funds must not be spent but invested, i.e. they must be used in places where they can be recovered at least in a broader socio-economic context, because they create an infrastructure that is then used and exploited, they finance research that will benefit later and create jobs that would thrive on their own - and I could continue to do so. But at the end of the day, allow me, in the context of the Court's opinion, to recommend it to your attention as a guide to the continuation of the budget debate, and allow me to thank you for your attention. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-05-11-6	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, I now give the floor to Mr Árpád Kovács, President of the Fiscal Council, in a 30-minute timeframe. Mr. President.
u2016-05-11-7	Dear Parliament, Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Thanking for the opportunity to say so, it is my duty today to give oral reasons for the Council's opinion on the draft budget. When drawing up the opinion of the Council, as has been the case, it was based on the analyses and findings of the State Audit Office and the Hungarian National Bank for this purpose. It also took into account the forecasts of professionally recognised analytical organisations and the projections of independent experts and relevant international institutions. The Council established its opinion on the draft law for the Government at its meeting on 21 April 2016 and forwarded it to the national Ministry of National Economy and made it public. I will come back to the substantive response to our opinion later. Dear Parliament, On the basis of the mandate given in the Fundamental Law of Hungary, the Fiscal Council, as a body supporting the activities of Parliament, examines the credibility and enforceability of the draft law on the central budget. First of all, it is guarding the compliance of the sovereign debt rule with the provisions of the Fundamental Law. In other words, as long as the public debt exceeds half of the gross domestic product, it must examine whether or not the draft law on the central budget includes a reduction in the debt-to-GDP ratio. This is what the Council does when giving its opinion on the draft bill and before the final vote on the bill when giving its prior consent. Based on its mandate, the Fiscal Council will examine the bill and its macroeconomic background in its unity, analyse its details, revenues and expenditure in terms of equilibrium, the fulfilment of the sovereign debt rule, and will not engage in the classification of distribution policy issues or the projection of the outcome of any EU settlement disputes. The next year's budget planning will also take into account the developments and results of the previous year's processes. Based on the experience of the short period from 2016 I have to talk about the budgetary, public finances and macroeconomic processes of this year, as the basis for planning next year, and also about the issue on the agenda of amending the budget for this year for next year. [[9.10]] Dear Members, Ladies and Gentlemen, According to the Council, in 2016 the growth of the Hungarian economy started in 2013 could continue with 2.5 percent and even slightly above this growth rate, mainly based on the completion of the second half. It is a fact that the cyclicality of the use of EU transfers continued to expand the economy in 2015 and to hold back slightly in 2016 and to make a positive contribution again in 2017. In the first months of the year, the performance of the construction industry has therefore fallen, with a decrease in volume of 20 per cent compared to the previous year's high performance. However, the measures taken may lead to more favourable expectations from the second half of the year. At the same time, it is positive that consumption is expected to support growth in 2016 after 2015 as a result of an increase in income for the population. In addition to the low return environment, the investment focus programme of the Hungarian National Bank can improve the investment activity of corporate and, in particular, small and medium-sized enterprises this year. The introduction of a reduced 5 percent flat-rate tax to the real estate market and the construction industry, as well as the extension of the family home-building discount, and the introduction of a national home-building Community scheme, are a boost. Thus, according to the Council, our country's investment rate could remain above 20 percent in 2016. The growth has been supported for several years by the recovery of demand on the external market, first on the basis of vehicle production and increasingly on the basis of the growing capacity of the related multi-sectoral domestic supplier network. In recent times, as we have heard, there have been positive developments in the labour market. In particular, it is positive that growth is predominantly in the competition sector and economic growth is coupled with a low price index, with a positive impact on consumption. The government's earlier measures to whiten the economy - the online connection of cash registers to the tax office, the use of the electronic road traffic control system and the improvement of the focus of tax control - were already noticeable in 2015, with a significant excess of tax and contribution revenues of 550 billion compared to the appropriations. As a result of this and spending control, in 2015, the general government deficit in accordance with the EU methodology was significantly lower than planned, with 2 percent of GDP. The development of the sovereign debt ratio was also favourable, which decreased by almost 1 percentage point to 75.3% compared to the previous year. The Council has experienced positive revenue trends and, as a result, a significantly lower cash flow deficit than in recent years in the first quarter of this year. On this basis, it considers the 2% deficit target to be met in 2016 as a whole, which could also have a positive impact on the reduction in the sovereign debt ratio. Dear Members, Ladies and Gentlemen, On 28 April, the Budget Council delivered an opinion on the draft bill for amending the 2016 budget, which is also on the agenda of the Parliament. Allow me to highlight a few points very briefly from that, in relation to the implementation of 2016 and the merits of next year's budget. The Budgetary Council noted that the changes in appropriations would increase the total revenue and expenditure of the central budget by a bit more than HUF 400 billion. It is important that the cash flow deficit and debt of public finances remain unchanged. The Council considered the increase in revenue trends to be justified on the basis of the favourable processes of the previous year and the data of the first quarter of 2016. It considers that the government debt rule is still fulfilled in 2016, as the gross debt-to-GDP ratio, calculated at the same rate and adjusted for the debt increase resulting from the advance on EU aid, is expected to decrease by the end of the year compared to one year earlier. At the same time, the KT pointed out that, when implementing the budget, attention should also be paid to the evolution of the debt ratio calculated under the rules of the European Union, i.e. the required reduction should not be jeopardised by the possible increase in the cash flow deficit due to the advance of EU funds. The increase in expenditure appropriations contributes to an increase in the investment rate and, as a result of its one-off nature, does not jeopardise the sustainability of the budgetary balance. The Council took note of the financial consolidation of the functioning of the educational institution system. The Council considered that on the expenditure side of the 2016 budget, the increase in appropriations and the new appropriations would be made possible by the favourable development of tax bases, the high use of growth tax credit, the higher tax and contribution revenues resulting from government measures to improve payment discipline and the efficiency of tax collection. The Council supported an increase in reserves, which increases expenditure appropriations to a lesser extent than the expected additional revenue, as this will strengthen the security of the budget's enforceability. In addition, the Budget Council also welcomed the fact that, on the basis of its opinion, the National Defence Fund, which was increased by HUF 30 billion in 2016 and reduced by the same amount in the course of the budgetary negotiations, will be renewed. Dear Parliament, Turning to the 2017 budget bill, I will start with macroeconomic indicators myself. Once again, the draft budget law expects a dynamic increase in GDP, and the Fiscal Council considers that this is duly supported by the sources of growth. Household consumption volumes increase by 3.1 percent, while gross fixed capital formation increases by 9.1 percent, with the latter allowing the investment share to be above 21 percent again. Employment growth and gross average income may continue. The dynamics of exports over 6 per cent will also be maintained, and further strengthening of industry and foreign trade can also be facilitated by the implementation of the Irinyi Plan. Inflation below 1 per cent also contributes to the recovery of consumption. The pensions increase in proportion to the legal requirements. However, the Council also noted that inflation on the basis of planning is lower than the average of available forecasts. The Council considers that expenditure appropriations can be kept at slightly higher inflation rates, but that pension expenditure would be proportionally increased by the higher cash outflow rate. The Council considered the macroeconomic projections taken into account in the planning to be sound, as the bill itself contains measures for economic growth, such as investments and wage increases in the public sector. It is important that the use of EU funds can once again stimulate economic growth to a significant extent from 2017. The impact of the government's decision to implement the calls in the 2014-2020 programming period in the first half of the cyclical period will apply. According to the Council, the planned use of EU funds is possible through the disciplined implementation of a very tight timetable adopted by the government. It is also possible to use most of the grants by the end of 2018. [[9.20]] If resources are used where there is a demand expansion, a growth environment, the investment aspects of market demand and economic development will be brought into line, which will also be stimulated by the introduction of a complex tender system and a system of advance funds. Before assessing the main figures of the 2017 budget, I must say that there is no significant difference between the draft that the Council has adopted and the legislative proposal before you, which has a significant impact on the character of the bill. The only significant change was the change in the 2015 growth tax credit clearance, not at our disadvantage, based on the recent methodological resolution of the European Union Statistical Office. This will have a balance improvement effect by 2017, which has provided an opportunity to finance additional investments and public interest tasks in addition to the unchanged 2.4 percent deficit under the EU methodology. In fact, the use of these options entails a deterioration of the cash flow balance, which does not, however, affect the sustainability of the debt reduction. On this basis, the Council's findings on the draft legislation are, in the vast majority, justified and correct for the proposal submitted. Dear Members, Ladies and Gentlemen, Overall, on a realistic basis, other revenues are conservatively planned, the latter, contrary to the previous two years, do not contain any significant asset disposal appropriations. Growth and stability provide an opportunity for a significant targeted reduction of tax rates, for the expansion of tax incentives, somewhere around 22 percent is the centre of VAT. The impact of these on tax revenues was taken into account in the planning of appropriations. A high increase in income in corporate tax is planned, probably due to the deferred payments of the growth tax loan. At the same time, the Council considered the increase of around HUF 180 billion in the general traffic tax forecast to be strained, even by further whitening the economy, introducing the online billing system, extending the connection of cash registers to the tax office, encouraging further deployment of credit card acceptance terminals and taking into account additional sources of consumption expansion. In addition, it considered the amount of personal income tax significantly increased by 7.8 per cent compared to the appropriations for the previous year to be excessive. In order to meet these commitments, it considered it necessary to increase the efficiency of the tax collection activity. It considered that the expansion of the tax office's services had a positive effect on revenues. Ladies and Gentlemen, On the expenditure side, the most significant change is the increase in the wages of those working in the budget, so as previously decided, the continuation of a career programme in government offices, teachers, law enforcement, defence and relevant higher education workers, and the entry of such a system in NAV employees. Wage increases are also being made in the health sector and in the social field. The Council considered that the scheduled wage increase in the budget sector would contribute to a sustainable increase in consumption, but considered it important to note that all these measures, which have a positive impact on consumption and thus also on budget positions, and the increase in wage expenditure, should remain in line with the strict budgetary constraints and performances. Both EU and own-financed investment appropriations will increase significantly compared to the 2016 appropriations. Expenditure related to all EU programmes will increase by more than one and a half times the 2016 allocation, most of them of a stockpiling nature and the value of own investments will also increase. With regard to the large-scale use of families' home-building benefits and related subsidies, as well as the improvement of job creation and living conditions for families in need, and in particular the growth expenditure for children's meals, I should note that they have a positive impact on both consumption and investment. Thus, in view of the strict budgetary aspects, they serve the sustainable growth of public finances here. As a consequence of government debt management, the reduction of debt service expenditure to 5.5 per cent in total public finances by 2017 compared to 8-9 per cent in the 2010s is favourable. Reducing the burden will provide further room for growth in public services, in particular in support of economic development. The share of the latter function in public finances will rise to more than 20 per cent by 2017 compared to around 14 per cent in the 2010s. The Council considers that it is necessary to support the budgetary balance in order to finance an effective state programme in order to achieve the resulting savings in the longer term. Dear Parliament, The Council concluded that the deficit-to-GDP target of 2.4 per cent in 2017 calculated according to the EU methodology is in line with the economic processes presented in the draft budget law and the revenue-to-expenditure appropriations envisaged. Although the deficit is increasing, it remains below the 3 per cent Maastricht criterion and the same threshold laid down in the Stability Act. For the balance planned for 2.4 per cent in 2017, it should also be seen that the budget calculates the large use of EU funds, and the Hungarian co-financing of some HUF 700 billion required in 2017 increases the cash flow deficit and partly the profit margin. This is the price we have to pay for using a significant proportion of EU funds in order to ensure the competitiveness and sustainability of Hungary's economic growth by the middle of the cycle. As a result, investments have been made in the past and in large amounts, and domestic companies will be able to obtain subsidies more quickly. In addition, the increase in the deficit, in addition to the gradually improving macroeconomic environment, has the consequence that the so-called structural balance of public finances, which has been cleared from the effects of the economic cycle and from individual items, will deteriorate. In order to assess this, the Council found insufficient information in the draft budget bill. However, I must add that an increase in the structural deficit should not lead to an excessive deficit procedure under EU rules. Taking this into account, the Council also called on the Government to state, in the explanatory memorandum to the bill, whether the deficit target under the budget bill meets the European Union's structural deficit criterion and this dormant rule of the Stability Act. It also considered it necessary that the extent and rules for the interim use of the National Defence Fund should be established by the bill taking into account the safe compliance with the latter requirement, and that the justification of the bill should show the aspects of the planning of the reserves. Dear Members, Ladies and Gentlemen, The Council concluded that the government debt ratio in the draft budget bill for 2017 could decrease from 73.5 per cent to 71.9 per cent by the end of 2017. This will bring about the imposition of the Fundamental Law. At the same time, the decline may be more moderate, including due to the rather high estimated value of the GDP deflator, but there is still enough reserve to cover the risks. [[9.30]] On the basis of the expected government deficit and macroeconomic developments, the debt ratio will be reduced to an appropriate extent and the EU debt rule will be met. The latter means that the government debt-to-GDP ratio has to be reduced by an average of one twenty per year from 2016 to above 60 per cent over the three years of the reference period. The Council's findings can be summarised as follows that the macroeconomic indicators taken into account in the planning, the revenue and expenditure accordingly planned, are well-founded and thus meet the targets set in the 2017 Budget Bill for both the general government deficit and the government debt-to-GDP ratio. The aim of moving towards a balanced budget is also justified in terms of the application of the sovereign debt rule and the security of the longer-term sustainability of the budget. Allow me to stop here for a moment, not regardless of what has been said. I hardly say anything new by saying that the Hungarian economy - we can say this: our ship - had been brought forward by the oil price reduction in addition to the back wind of EU money until 2015. According to our calculations, for example, in 2015 the two factors resulted in slightly more than 1 percentage point of the 2.9 percent increase. From 2017 onwards, the country's economy and the quality of public services can move forward faster in the re-emerging hinterland. However, it can also be seen that we carry burdens with us, so that the replacement of human infrastructure neglected for decades, the debt service from debt debt, still has a heavy burden on us today, and all of this pulls us back. It should also be borne in mind that external EU resources, whether we work for them, can run low over the horizon, and that the global economy has brought about an increase in exchange rates that will not last forever. So we must take advantage of the opportunities. In the near years, we need to get to the world of a balanced budget, which can bring us a new perspective for development, a faster reduction in debt burdens, and a hope for greater growth. In this context, the Fiscal Council has positively assessed the separation of the operational, stockpiling and EU budget for 2017; the enforcement of the state's absence and the deficit should be limited to financing domestic developments and co-financing EU-funded development. Dear Parliament, Once again, the Council's opinion received a detailed government response, which can be learned by all of us at the end of the main volume of the bill. Therefore, I would like to comment on that very briefly. In recognition of the risks of possibly lower growth and more expensive debt financing, the government increased the budget of the National Defence Fund by HUF 10 billion. The HUF 60 billion reserve is justified to cover a 60 basis point increase in return or a loss of 0.4 to 0.5 percentage points less than planned and to offset tax revenue. However, due to sufficient additional guarantees to address budgetary risks, the Government did not consider it appropriate to tighten the rules for the use of the National Defence Fund. In the context of the structural balance requirement, we can learn from the response that the government considers that a 2.1 percent structural balance can be matched to the deficit under the 2.4 percent EU methodology in 2017. The government has made it clear that it intends to gradually and significantly reduce the structural balance of the budget in the coming years: to the expected level of 1.7 per cent in 2018, from 2019 to below and to 1.2 per cent in 2020. The answer also contains detailed justification for the guarantees of compliance with VAT and corporate incomes, which were considered risky by the KT. Dear Members, Ladies and Gentlemen, Finally, I would like to thank the Minister of National Economy and his colleagues for their far-reaching support for our work. It was also possible for the Council to prepare its opinion by carrying out meaningful analyses, in the context of the very tight preparatory work and the burdensome planning conditions. I would also like to thank the staff of the State Audit Office, the Hungarian National Bank and the Secretariat of the Fiscal Council, the Institutes of Analyses invited and the staff of certain economic institutions for supporting the broad technical basis of the Council's opinion through independent, alternative macroeconomic model calculations and sensitivity studies. Dear Parliament, Mr President, Thanking you for your attention, I would like to wish you a good job in discussing the country's sustainable development, the improvement of economic performance, the proposal of the Fiscal Law on Physical and Spiritual Enhancement of People and the related amendments. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-05-11-8	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Before we continue our work, the Parliament must decide on a meeting matter. During the hearing of the bill on Hungary's central budget for 2017, the Vice-Presidents of the Parliament are expected to participate in the debate. The representatives of the Vice-Presidents shall, in the event of their opposition, lead the meeting at a further stage of the debate or during the decision, only if the Parliament agrees. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it agrees to allow us to continue to lead the meeting in the trial and decision of the presentation, Mr Latorcai, Mr Sándor Lezsák, Mr István Jakab, Vice-President Tamás Sneider. Please vote by raising your hands. [[Vote.]] Thank you very much. I find that the visible majority of Parliament has accepted my proposal. Dear Parliament, It's 9:37. The speech will now take place in a 30-30-minute time frame. In the meantime, two-minute speeches are not possible. First, I give the floor to Mr Lajos Szűcs, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group. Here you go.
u2016-05-11-9	Mr. President. Mr. Secretary of State! Dear Lords of the President, Dear fellow Members, On behalf of the Fidesz Group, I welcome you in the debate on the 2017 budget, and I would like to quote to you the budgets of the last 20 to 27 years, from which we have had quite a lot of experience. Perhaps the most important experience is that for the second year of this budget law dispute, it was not the end of the year that we were able to bring it forward by the middle of the year. I would also like to thank the State Court of Auditors and the Fiscal Council for their opinion, which could, in short, be said to have been assessed as having significantly less problems than the budgets of previous years, but in any event as well as as, if I have understood the words correctly, it can be implemented, while, of course, very serious work must be carried out to achieve this. Like last year, the government has submitted the budget this spring in order to give people and economic operators as much time as possible to prepare for next year's changes and prepare for planning. The most important message of the budget presented to Parliament on 26 April 2016 is that everyone should be able to take another step forward, which is a good indicator of the civil thinking that the government has taken and has drawn up the budget and tax laws in this spirit. [[9.40]] Budget planning remains consistent, predictable and sustainable and safe. There may be a legitimate question of what this means for people in practice. As last year, we will continue to reduce taxes and create homes again this year. This year, we reduced personal income tax and lowered the VAT of one of the most important foods, pork. Next year, the VAT on other important basic foods, milk, eggs and poultrymeat will be reduced from 27% to 5%. This, as well as the planned reduction in the VAT of restaurant catering from next year, can then be increased by HUF 35-40 thousand per year for an average Hungarian family. If you live up to the expectations of reducing the VAT on restaurant services to 18%, i.e. restaurant prices will actually decrease, then it is planned that further reductions will be possible in 2018, up to 5 percent. Internet access will also be cheaper, as from 2017 the VAT rate for Internet services will be reduced from 27 percent to 18 percent. It is clear that 2017 will be the year of construction and housing construction in Hungary. In next year's budget, more than HUF 200 billion will be spent to support the home creation of Hungarian families. Next year, we will be able to use the extended family home-building discount in 2016, and, of course, we will continue to benefit from interest subsidies and support housing savings. In 2017, national home-creating communities will already work, which could provide an additional HUF 3 million in support for participants. The measures listed above have a serious impact on the revenue side of public finances, but the government does not intend to soften the budget. He goes on to keep the budget on his own, so we don't spend any more than we make. It is planned that next year there will be a historic turning point where we will not spend more on the day-to-day operation of the Hungarian state than there will be public revenue. In the public part of the operation, i.e. in the case of expenditure and revenue, there is no deficit planned. In terms of operation, we can therefore say that Hungary will have a budget of zero in 2017, and that the deficit, which is in the budget, arises in a financial sense, is actually an investment in the future in terms of investments and developments. At the same time, there is a sufficient amount and quality of domestic and EU resources available for the development, so we expect a significant acceleration in the growth of the economy next year compared to this year. The biggest result of 2016 and all Hungarians can be proud to have repaid the last instalment of the loan received from the IMF and the Union in 2008. Of course, we want to continue the fight against debt next year. We cannot allow the country to return to a path of socialist indebtedness. At the turn of the government in 2010, we were still above the EU average in terms of public debt, and now we are below the EU average. According to our expectations, 2017 will be in the spirit of stability, as inflation is expected to be less than 1 percent. This means that money earned by people will practically not lose its value. Moreover, the VAT cuts will increase the real purchasing power of the actions. The reduction of VAT on key foods will practically double next year's pension increases, as pensioners consume particularly much of these foods, so the fall in prices is worth another reduction in their overhead. The government, as it has done in recent years, will continue its family-friendly policy next year. Support for families with children will continue to increase; the family tax allowance for families with two children will increase to HUF 15,000 per child. Young married people continue to benefit from tax relief. Tax reductions to help families can make a significant contribution to halting negative demographic trends. As I have already said, in 2017, the home creation programme, the CSOK, will continue, with the help of which thousands will get their own home. For this purpose alone, HUF 211 billion is earmarked in the budget. I do not think that there is a need to explain in particular what the family housing discount and the reduced flat tax of 5 percent will mean not only for the domestic real estate market, but also for the construction sector: hopefully, thousands of additional jobs will be created in the sector. The goal is that every Hungarian person can get their own apartment or house at affordable prices and available time. It can therefore be said that Hungary is a family-friendly country, since in its proportions we spend significantly more on these expenditures than the public averages of other European and OECD countries. Ladies and gentlemen, As we know, tax cuts are important because they are also important elements of the fight to whiten the economy. Today, it has been proven that the introduction and the gradual extension of online cash registers were the right decision and fulfilled the expectations attached to it. The system of online invoicing will also be introduced from 2017 and the details of the tax certification and the electronic road traffic control system will be amended. Finally, in addition to these whitening measures, the government would like to encourage transactions with credit card payments by promoting an increase in the number of credit card acceptance terminals with budgetary support. The government also consistently maintains its position that in times of crisis taxpayers with greater capacity should contribute more to the burden. This is how the various sectoral special taxes were introduced, but in 2017 the ceiling of the special tax on financial institutions for credit institutions will be further reduced in order to boost lending as soon as the crisis is over, and credit institution benefits will also be released. It is no longer justified to maintain it as a result of the introduction of foreign exchange loans to the general public and the creation of new family policy preferences. Ladies and gentlemen, In 2017, there will be an increase in the number of career programme participants, as next year this opportunity will open up to government officials. In this context, of course, not only for them, but also for law enforcement workers, higher education workers and teachers. In addition, in 2017, the budget will account for the increase in wages of employees in the National Tax and Customs Office. We believe in work instead of aid and therefore the public work programme will continue next year. It is still important for honest work to enable people to create decent living conditions for themselves and their families, not to make ends meet with aid. In recent years, the government has always sought to avoid a sector that receives less than before. The budget for next year is also prepared in this way, i.e. it provides additional resources for all disciplines. For example, there will be HUF 270 billion for education, HUF 167 billion for health care, HUF 155 billion for social security and welfare, HUF 66 billion for cultural activities and HUF 6 billion for sport and leisure in 2017. Law enforcement can expect a HUF 114 billion higher budget for the local government sector. The Hungarian state can spend HUF 26 billion on justice, justice and foreign affairs with HUF 10 billion more. [[9.50]] In addition to the HUF 2240 billion EU resource use, it plans an additional HUF 1600 billion for the 2017 budget developments. It is a significant step forward that more than 60% of all development resources can contribute to economic development compared to the proportion of EU funds below 20 per cent of the previous seven-year budgetary period. In addition to the above, the government will take all measures to protect the country from external threats. To this end, the budget provides the defence with HUF 51 billion more money. Ladies and gentlemen, It is inevitable to talk about the most important economic indicators and figures in the next year's budget. The total revenue of next year's central budget is HUF 17 374 bn, while the total expenditure is expected to be HUF 18 541 bn, so the budget deficit for 2017 will be 2.4 per cent compared to GDP in accordance with the EU methodology. The budget predicts the US dollar exchange rates of 312 HUF, 284 HUF and 282 HUF, and, in addition to such exchange rates, the rate of the government debt ratio was set at 71.9 percent by 31 December 2017. The 2017 budget proposal was prepared in a conservative manner, which was already common; in order to avoid unforeseen risks, the two central reserves were set out: the National Defence Fund and the reserve for extraordinary government measures. The system of reserves is strengthened by the stability reserve, which was also trained in 2017 per budget heading, which, according to the government's decision, can only be used in the last quarter of the year. We can also say that, from 2011, the reduction of public debt has been in favour of increasing national wealth, unlike in the time of socialist governments, when wealth management was synonymous with lower prices. Therefore, making investments that increase national wealth is a top priority in 2017 as well. This is one of the reasons why there is a shortage of stockpiling and EU development parts in the structure of the budget. As with a family budget, it is only possible or worthwhile to do so in the Hungarian budget if these investments in the future are also for the benefit of the economy and the Hungarian state. I believe that economic policy over the last six years is clearly successful, as economic growth is continuing and employment is increasing. Our public debt is falling, we are out of the overdeficit procedure, we have repaid the EU and IMF loans. Let me talk about something else at this point. As an individual Member of Parliament and as a representative of Pest County, I have a special opportunity to discuss. My fellow Members and those watching us are likely to know precisely that, from a development point of view, Pest County has suffered serious disadvantages in recent years. For political reasons, the joint regional relationship between Budapest and Pest County was no longer feasible, and for businesses and people it was a disadvantage that had to be remedied. Therefore, at the end of 2015, the government decided that Budapest and Pest counties would become regionally separate from the EU budget period 2020. What this means, I have already said in the last few days on one day: people and businesses in Pest County received one third of the funds compared to the rest of the country. From 2016, the government has provided a special opportunity for enterprises and people in Pest County. I would also like to thank everyone who has had the opportunity to prepare this measure, and we hope that this special resource, like the European Union's commitment, will bring with it the development of the economy and thus the viability of Pest County enterprises. Ladies and gentlemen, In the next two days, the Hungarian Parliament will discuss the budget bill within a 30-hour timeframe. My fellow members of the Government are preparing to support and recommend the budget proposal, taking into account their own area of expertise. And from those who are following the debate, I would like to ask you not to listen to those who would rather promise more money to all sectors because they would either irresponsiblely be indebted to the country or raise taxes. We are in the position to make responsible progress and adapt expenditure to our options, as is appropriate for a civil-conservative government. I think that the many measures listed above also show that economic growth is sustainable with responsible management and that every year the citizens of Hungary can make one step forward. The 2017 budget proposal is a guarantee, which is why I ask the Fidesz parliamentary group and all my fellow Members to vote in favour of the adoption of the bill. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-05-11-10	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Mr József Tobias, the lead speaker of the MSZP Group, is next. Here you go.
u2016-05-11-11	Mr President, Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, A country's budget always accurately reflects the social philosophy of the government, how it thinks about the state redistribution of the goods produced, what priorities it sets and what developments it sets for itself. This is included in the draft budget for 2017. The speakers before me spoke very nicely about the budget for next year. Nice words, but not true words. Because the budget before us, my fellow Members, is a budget of fraud, which is based on fundamentally flawed, unfounded proposals, economic careers, in its social philosophy it forecasts the durability of hopelessness, the further split-up of society, and in its economic policy, Hungary's further lag from the countries of the region. For the majority of people, the 2017 budget gives no hope of changing their situation, and it continues to govern the country's abduction-based government, which provides Fidesz-near entrepreneurs and family members with serious billions uncounted. Mihály Varga said that the 2017 budget ensures that all Hungarians can take a step forward. You can't move forward with your feet tied! You'd like to try this with your feet tied together. For the past six years, you have bound 80 percent of the members of the Hungarian society. The others, their own mates, and their family members were given amazing benefits. While a nurse or a educator, who has been tied to legs in recent years, has been trying to hold on in one place or at the most by preventing slippage, your political selecters have made not one step but ten steps a month. Next year's pension increase can only be noticed by a magnifying glass, while you have just recently raised your salary to 5 million and 3.5 million, the head of the central bank's supervisory board and its members. [[10.00]] In a country where more than 40 percent of the total population lives below the subsistence limit as a result of the six-year government of Fidesz, we would expect a budget bill to take a turn. Instead of being wealthy and friends, the government should try to help people and families living in a difficult line. But no! For you, the first is the family - I mean, the family close to the Prime Minister. And the members of the family, Mészáros-, Tiborcz-, Garancsi- and Matolcsy-clan, operate in this spirit. The clans have come into existence, the cultures have been created, and it is no coincidence that more and more people who were not previously on the 100 richest list of Hungarians belong specifically to your political and economic world. All you cared about was centralization. The appointment of incompetent people and the acquisition of economic benefits through legislation. Ladies and gentlemen, In relation to the content of the 2017 budget, I would like to advance and look back a little on the economic policy results of the last six years. The results of the economic policy that has been going on since 2010: we are lagging behind in the European Union compared to our regional partners. General government balance recovery is only temporary, public debt has already increased to over 25 000 billion and the deficit, and most importantly, the deficit has only been reduced by nationalising private pension funds to below 3 per cent of GDP. Without this, you have not been able to reduce the budget deficit to less than 3 per cent in a year since 2010. Poverty has grown. The difference between the poorest and the richest tenth is ten times more, honourable Members. It was the last one after the change of regime, the first one in a year or two. The investment climate has not improved. For the weakened forint - the HUF is worth 20 percent less than in 2010 - György Matolcsy is responsible for the person who says that there is no need to determine the Hungarian National Bank's forint exchange rate policy. Then who is it? For you? Then you have the responsibility. In real terms, the EU's inflows of funds needed for investment will be less in the 2014-2020 budget period than in the previous seven years. Smaller resources are also intended to be used in full in the coming years. The 2017 budget is also slightly optimistic in comparison to the current more favourable economic processes, with an even more supportive year for the rich. It is typical that even the government's favorite analyst company, the Century End, acknowledged this claim. According to their calculations, by reducing the VAT on the most important foods, milk, eggs and poultrymeat, the annual savings for families of four in the lower income category could reach 10-15-20 thousand forints. 15-20 thousand forints per family and every year. Ladies and gentlemen, It's alms. With this decision, you are once again seeking to support the more affluent. In recent years, Hungary's economic indicators have been acceptable, which has been mainly and has been said, caused by a revival of EU funds and has been shown to be overachievement of tax revenues. However, we are still lagging behind in comparison with the countries in the region. In 2016, the Hungarian government expects an increase of 2.5 percent, while Slovakia will increase by 3.2 percent, Poland will increase by 3.7 percent and Romania by 4.2 percent, according to the European Commission and OECD. In 2017, planning is expecting an increase of 3.1 percent, which the European Commission and the OECD both consider to be excessive, with a better scenario of 2.8 percent in 2017. Meanwhile, due to the political orientation and institutional system of the Hungarian government, it is now being isolated internationally to an extremely worrying extent, which greatly reduces its ability to assert interest. Hungary's international perception is expected to remain unchanged due to the government's economic policies, which are separate, anti-market, new and new corruption cases. In addition, it undermines the private sector's desire to invest. Although Hungary's economic indicators have improved, international organisations, including the OECD, but this is not sustainable in the long term. The Hungarian government is either not doing enough to change things that underpin growth in the right direction or even make things worse. While the OECD acknowledges that investments have started to grow again since 2012, it is the investments of foreign multinational companies and EU transfers that are most responsible for growth, while Hungarian companies, especially small and medium-sized enterprises, are hardly willing to invest. The reason for this is that they change the rules too quickly and unpredictablely, inaccessiblely. The fact that Eurostat no longer considers the government's government debt figures to be credible contributes significantly to the lack of investment and the lack of inflow of foreign working capital. This, in itself, causes far more damage to credit rating agencies than the government would allow in this debate and correct our public debt. At the same time, it does not help us get out of the Bóvl category, as the Hungarian National Bank finances primarily itself and its buddies through its foundations, and then, as it turns out, both the budget and the relatives. Ladies and gentlemen, In such an environment, you, not learning from the mistakes of the past years, again at the end of spring, at the beginning of summer, want to decide on the budget for next year. When there are no tax laws yet adopted, it is not possible to see how the base year, i.e. the plans of 2016. However, it is clear that this year's budget adopted at this time last year has already failed, as the government has just presented its bill on its adjustment this week. The figures contained in the 2017 Budget Bill are equally unfair and unfounded. Economic researchers emphasize almost without exception that the transparency of the budget has not improved or even deteriorated at all. Because the 2017 budget is based on rolled planning data. Well, let's tell you what this looks like. The 2017 budget is based on the 2016 plan numbers. However, the 2016 plan numbers are based on the 2015 plan numbers. This means that the current budget presented is as far away from reality as Mako is from Jerusalem. Moreover, they now intend to change the budget in their own power. After all, the bill has been passed by a pro-government majority that from now on we are going to hold a theatre here in the Chamber, we are going to have a good debate about the budget, and the Prime Minister and the Government are going to decide how to rearrange the budget at their own convenience. In the 2017 budget, as in recent years, it is clear that if we don't see the real numbers in the spring, and we don't plan our next year based on it, then it looks like the harvest is due in the summer, not the sowing. And especially not the budget. The budget presented in the new structure has no economic significance, it makes transparency and comparison with previous years almost impossible, and the structural change only means that the breakdown has now been placed in three tables so that it is not possible to compare changes within months and try to adapt their plans to the zero budget. But in fact, it's a 180-degree turnaround. It has to be said that the entire draft budget is a hoax, it has to be called a hoax, it has to be called a budget that is nothing but that you are in panic and are trying to distribute, by the way, to the majority of yourselves. Another important consequence of raising the budget deficit to 2.4 percent is that the structural deficit will rise next year. In this way, the government is violating the rule imposed by the European Union, which you, the Hungarian legislature, have incorporated into the Stability Act, which requires Hungary to meet its structural deficit of 1.7 percent in proportion to GDP. [[10.10]] The deficit rate is determined according to the potential growth rate of public debt, GDP and the economy, so the Hungarian economy can tolerate only 1.7 percent deficit over the longer term, which is why this should be approached and not moved away. In view of the fact that the Act on Economic Stability also includes an obligation to close to the structural deficit, the draft budget bill does not therefore comply with all public financial requirements. Even the Fiscal Council has raised concerns in this regard. According to the draft budget, next year the government will spend less on the social area in terms of GDP and expenditure distribution than this year. I would like to recall that since the early 1990s there has not been a difference in income between the lowest tenth and the top tenth in Hungary. The amount of social assistance remains largely unchanged, only increases the amount of some benefits, but increases it to an impeccably low degree compared to what the state intends to spend on itself and its leaders in 2017. All this, in addition to the rise in the proportion of people living below the minimum, means that the government will give nothing of the growth that can be expected. Hungary is still underperforming in terms of social expenditure. While the government expects an increase of 3.1 percent next year, it reduces the share of expenditure on welfare functions by 2 percentage points of total public finances. In the broad-based social area in which social security and welfare services are included, the proportion will be set at even less than GDP next year. In the middle of the crisis, in 2009, the government spent 17.7 percent of GDP on social policy and welfare expenditure; this shrinks to 14 percent in 2017. In eight years, the government has reduced the share of spending in the social field by nearly 4 percentage points, while you are campaigning that Hungary is doing well. Next year, the government will spend even less on social support. It can be seen that in two years more than HUF 25 billion has been withdrawn from the aid budget alone. After last year's cessation of municipal aid, there will be even a series less in this area next year. The aid granted to municipalities, which could have provided aid locally, will be the same as this year, the aid granted to the district will be reduced by more than HUF 7 billion next year, with an increase in the basic amount of the care fee of HUF 1500, as well as the benefit of the elderly by 5 percent, which means an increase of approximately HUF 1400. The budget justification highlights in several places the transformation of the nursery system, the expansion of forms of supply. Compared to that, if you look at it, it's number IX. It is clear from the reasons for this chapter that only HUF 200 million will be allocated by the government to additional funding resulting from the transformation. Next year, there will be no more homeless people, no more support for autists, no more support for sign language translation services, no more social and child protection services, and half as much money will be spent by the government as in 2016. At the same time, as has been said, the rate of tax relief for two children increases to HUF 15,000 per child. The children of one child will still have 10,000 forints, just as the three children will not change from 33 thousand forints per child. Thus, in 2017 the government will release HUF 274 billion in taxes and contributions to support families. Today, this support system brings greater family support to multi-child members of the government, in total more than one family with average wages and their children. [[Dr. Répássy Robert intervenes.]] But today, the least public support, honourable Members, is given to the children of parents who are unemployed. This means that you have your own family-friendly government programme in Hungary today, but the inhabitants of Hungary do not have a child support or family support programme. The government is proclaiming that next year it will increase pensions by the rate of inflation, which, I would like to say, has not been the case in the last ten years, will humiliatingly only increase by 0.9 percent. All of this will actually mean a few hundred forints for the pensioners living under the hundreds of thousands of living minimums, which will not make them live better, as the cost of the medicine, housing, will not be reduced. Expenditure on disability benefits will be further reduced: 320 billion will be planned for 2017 instead of 323 billion this year. Ladies and gentlemen, In relation to the funding of the educational area, the expenditure increase presented also falls under the category of fraud. According to economic analysts, it is clear that from the fact that public education and vocational training will receive more money, virtually nothing will be seen in 2017. The budget simply shows the money resulting from the honest financing of the current standard of service and from the pedagogical career; there is not a single penny more. In 2015, these two areas worked together from around HUF 610-620 billion, taking into account, of course, the funds that were received separately at the end of 2015 - KLIK and vocational training with a government decision, and taking into account all kinds of late-paid accounts. Compared to this, by 2016 and 2017, the government will give the money that was set out under-planned in 2015 in the budget on the one hand. The same is the case in health: you do not see what you want through the budget, how you want to address the fundamental problems in the area of health. I don't know what kind of treasurers or other appointees are available for their own appointments, government commissioners, not for sectoral wage development, financing and modernisation of the general medical system. Ladies and gentlemen, You said that all people should take a step forward, and you have always wanted the benefit of Hungarian people in recent years - so you could take it away. There'll be nothing left to take. The government abandons the socially dependent layers, does not want to give them anything from economic growth, the value of the individual benefits remains unchanged; what is humiliating is the 0.9 percent increase in pension, which is the lowest increase in the decade. It is self-absorbed that they want to link it to the VAT reduction, that it could be 1.8 percent. Ladies and gentlemen, VAT on basic foods should be reduced. Taking into account the consumer basket, it should be reduced taking into account the consumer basket of pensioners, because then it could be true of your claim. And finally, in which I see that government policy is quite determined, and it doesn't matter what challenges the real Hungary faces: you refuse to give up next year on hundreds of billions of wasted, unnecessary and failed investments in prestige and luxury, while these funds should actually be in the social field, education and health sector. Therefore, the Hungarian Socialist Party intends to present a comprehensive package of budget adjustments in these three areas, because in the real Hungary, the teacher, the needy social worker, the physical worker, the doctors and nurses expect your self-limitation to apply in 2017 rather than their slippage. Thank you very much.
u2016-05-11-12	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, Mr János Harghitai, lead speaker of the KDNP. Here you go, Congressman.
u2016-05-11-13	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, I always have the lucky position as a KDNP lead speaker to speak or speak after the socialist lead speaker. [[Defiance in the ranks of the ruling parties. Dr. Robert Répássy: For now!]] And I always make the mistake I'd like to avoid now that I'm actually arguing with the sentences. This time I'd rather listen to Immanuel Kantra, who says that if we don't realize that in a debate we're not dealing with the mind of our partner, but with his will, then we have no chance of winning, because in vain we argue about the side of reason where we are dealing with wills and settings. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] [[10.20]] We could hear these wishes and settings from my fellow Member Tobias in 20 minutes. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]] I don't have 20 minutes to argue with his wishes and settings about the side of reason, because I believe Kant that it's hopeless. It would be hopeless, at least. [[József Tobias: It should be with numbers, not with reason.]] I'm gonna let that go. So I'd rather tell you how the Christian Democrats see this budget and hope that the public is watching our work, perhaps we can all benefit more from it. [[Z. Kárpát, Dániel: Especially the one enjoying the live broadcast!]] It can't be done with a sentence as József Tobias did, almost ignoring that the speakers before me said nice things about the budget. For the record, there was only one pro-government politician speaking. The President of the Fiscal Council and the President of the State Audit Office, who did not come here to say nice things about the budget, were to give a realistic assessment according to their legal obligations. I, who have been working on the Committee on Budgets for more than a decade and a half and obviously participate in any such debate, always observe what gentlemen, the two gentlemen mentioned, are saying about the budget. [[Dr. István Józsa: Very good!]] - of course it is right - and I think that this is the first budget where the thought of the two of them and what they have said here best justify what the government has put forward. I have always listened to the critical remarks of the past years, there have been, although they do not do so on the sidelines - the Court of Auditors and the Budget Council - but they can always be read out of their voices. I have heard such things now, and I would like to reflect on them, but it was reassuring to me that they had basically made a very positive attitude and very positive arguments in favour of the budget presented. What is most typical of this budget and of the economic environment that underpins the budget? 'Cause it's a good idea for us to start from here. The ministerial expo, Minister Varga, started with this. He said that we are submitting this budget at a time when the Hungarian economy is growing, when we were able to reduce year after year the incredible large government debt accumulated during the socialist government's regency; we are submitting this budget at a time when wages are finally rising. Not as much as we'd like to do, but it's a fact that wages are rising. They have been rising in the real economy for years, but I can now say that there has also been a substantial wage increase in the fiscal sector; and what is welcome is that more and more people are employed. When we evaluate these results, we should always look at what is the low point in socialist governance at the height of 2008-2010, at the time of the crisis and at the time of the start of the crisis. At the time, I did not think that, from the perspective of a few years - this was not so long ago that I was talking about - such sentences could be said that the Hungarian economy is growing permanently now, that every year we are able to correct the debt downwards, that wages are finally rising, if modestly, but are rising, and that more and more people are employed. Therefore, the statement made by the Minister that he was able to submit a predictable and secure budget to Parliament, and the basic and most characteristic feature of this draft budget is the act of tax reduction and the intention of home creation. I'll give you more details on these. We, the pro-government people, are telling you that, and we are serious about that, this budget is an opportunity for every single person to take a step forward in their own way, in their own way of life. But to keep it more than just a slogan from us, that everyone here can move forward, we can finally ask ourselves, in what way is that possible? How can we explain to the public watching us or listening to us that it will be possible to do so? And then, if I had to put forward arguments, I would obviously say to such a person, who asks this question, that, on the one hand, obviously with increasing wages, because the average person gets a salary in some workplace, or if he is retired, he has a pension income, and this will preserve the real value of his pension income in 2017. This average person consumes every day, consumes when he buys in the grocery store, and will notice that he will have to pay less VAT for the products that have been more expensive so far, and are accessible to basic foods. This average person, who has a job, will also pay taxes and will experience, on the basis of the figures for 2017 budget year, that his tax burden will be reduced. It is important to note - also to note the debate on this - how public opinion, as well as professional opinion, appreciates that this budget has been presented in a new structure. It is always a key issue for Members of Parliament and for the general public as to how transparent the budget we are discussing is, how much we can believe those figures, how much the real numbers of the economy can be read out from the budget at all. This new structure, in which it was presented, is, of course, the whole point of the new structure is that the draft budget presents the expenditure on domestic operations, the expenditure on domestic development and the separate presentation of EU revenue and development. On this basis, we can clearly see it, and this was clearly also the intention of the submitting government to show that we have finally achieved the state that, in our operation, we can say, by looking at the operating side of the budget, that there is no external source to do so, that our operation does not generate any new debt. On the side of development and, obviously, on the EU's revenue side, this is what we are counting on, because for the future these expenditures, I think that it is necessary and it was justified to plan in this way. If I'm looking at the number of corners of the budget, I'm going to have to mention the 3.1 economic growth intention first. With regard to the explanation: we have already increased higher than this year, so we are sure that this year will be more modest, which is what we calculated; in 2017 we will be able to go back to 3 percent thanks to increasing EU resource consumption. This tells me that the Hungarian economy is able to grow by 3 percent on a permanent basis; as Árpád Kovács put it in his expozee, it should move on from here, even thinking of the time when our growth will not be heated to this extent by the involvement of EU funds, as these EU funds are likely to decrease or perhaps even become completely obsolete after 2020. The President of the State Audit Office also had an important statement regarding growth that it was a realistic growth objective, he said that it was not his task to examine it, but he added, and it is reassuring to me that the government debt rule would be fulfilled even if the increase was not the expected 3.1 percent, but only 1.6 percent. He did not say that this would be it; he said that with an increase of 1.6 percent, the government debt rule would be fulfilled. The government calculates a 0.9 percent inflation rate for corner numbers and a 2.4 percent deficit. This deficit is slightly larger than that planned in 2016 but still meets the Maastricht criteria. [[10.30]] Another important number is that if the main budget figures are met, we will see at the end of 2017 that we can further reduce our public debt-to-GDP ratio by 1.6 percent. There are enough reasons for this: I have already indicated that during the socialist period, they have managed to raise this number to the stars. It remains true that the budget not only plans realisticly but carefully, because it manages a relatively large reserve, with a reserve of 200 billion, of which 60 billion are the National Defence Fund, the general reserve 110 billion, and even chapters as a stability reserve had to form some 35 billion, which will obviously only be used in the second half of the year or at the end of the year. A figure on unemployment: At the end of 2017, this budget is estimated at 5 per cent unemployment. Only one reference number: unemployment was 11,8% in 2010, so in this respect the legacy we received from the socialists could be around 5 percent by 2017. This is a welcome change, and I would just like to add that 4-5 percent unemployment is almost full employment. Of course, behind our 4-5 percent, let us add that there is a significant number of public workers here, and the public employees as well obviously improve these indicators. If we can produce people working in the competitive sector from the public sector, as this intention seems to be seen in the budget, we can even more assess the 5 percent unemployment rate. Once again, if this means real employment - of course I value public employment in its place - then this is close to full employment. It is also important to note, with regard to recalling the socialist heritage, that when we evaluate our results and think today in a predictable budgetary environment, we must mention that we have left behind a period of - and I must mention this here in relation to 2016 - that the huge public debt left behind by the socialists could be repaid just this year to the last penny. In the past, the IMF, now, I think we have completed the last budget line for the European Union, managed to significantly reduce the risk of foreign exchange debt, free the municipalities from their debts. These are all factors that make budget planning and budget management for each family more secure and predictable. Low inflation will help to stimulate investment and demand for consumption, which is also a significant factor as a result of VAT reductions and wage outflow, will stimulate growth. I said, and as a Christian Democrat, I am pleased to say that the most character of the entire budget is what we can discover in this budget with regard to families, which is what I would like to consider in this section. I can also say that the budget that is so favourable to families has perhaps never been put forward by the civilian government as it has now had the opportunity to do. What are the items that can be mentioned with the intention of favoring families? Obviously, I can speak in the first place about the further increase in family tax incentives, which is not just a feature of this year's budget, which has been the case so far. I'm here to account for a reduction in the burden of families with two children. More people have already said that the savings of HUF 15 billion are affected by some 350 thousand taxpayers, which stays with families with two children, plus their tax relief of HUF 15 000 per child. It is a small item, but we think it is significant that young married people continue to benefit from the tax relief for up to two years even in the event of the birth of a child, which we set on track in a previous fiscal year. The opportunity to create a home and start is a very characteristic feature of this budget, and the government devotes 211 billion forints. If I have to mention the elements of this, then I can talk about the CSOK, i.e. the family home creation discount, and the budget-supported preferential loan that families can use for their home creation, and it is obviously important to build and buy a new apartment, the VAT reduction is 5 percent against the previous 27 percent. Savings will continue to be encouraged by the government if someone is thinking about building homes, because the housing savings will continue to benefit from a 30% tax reduction, but from 2017 the so-called NOK, the national home-building communities have been created by a law. In ten years' time, in such a community, you can get support of HUF 3 million in the event of your intention to create a home. The third is such a significant area, which I can mention in relation to the benefits for families, which is clearly seen in the tax reduction. I think it is important to reduce the VAT on milk, poultry, eggs to 5%. A year ago, when we started this process with the VAT on pigmeat, it was right to wonder why it only covers pigmeat. Even then, the government said that it was looking at the possibility of further VAT reductions, and, well, this budget law is already bringing about this opportunity. I think it is important to reduce VAT on restaurant services to 18% or to reduce VAT on internet access with the same content, and I think it is important that the key to personal income tax remains 15 percent, which is one of the best in European comparison. When we talk about VAT, the opposition representatives, the socialists, who are not here, also mention that the Hungarian tax system also manages with the highest VAT rate. Árpád Kovács had a sentence, and I also noticed that the centre of VAT is around 22 percent today. If mentioned in addition to the 15 percent personal income tax or the relatively high 27 percent VAT rate [[Dániel Z. Carpathian: Relatively tall!]] The fact that the centre of VAT is around 22 percent gives us a realistic figure. If we take these VAT reductions into account, our calculations show that an average Hungarian family can save between HUF 35-40,000 a year, which we consider to be significant. It is also important for families to continue to think that we want to give people and families jobs instead of aid. In this context, Mr Tobias presented figures and presented as tragic how much less money the budget spends on social assistance each year; I also consider this to be a result. I have a long sequence of numbers here, but let me just mention one item. In 2009, 2 billion were spent on public work, while 100 billion were spent on unemployment benefits. Today, these figures are going to cost 325 billion for public work, so to make a meaningful job for the most difficult of people in the line of work, but only 47 billion forints for job search support. [[10.40]] So when we hear from the opposition side that the money we use, if you like, is small, we add to this: it can be so small because we turn it into work and give them job opportunities. In the case of families, it is obviously important to mention the provision of free textbooks, since there are children in an average family, at least two children in the best case. Today they come to the lower school for free in the fifth grade of textbooks and upper school, and even the needy ones, if they are older children, can get textbooks for free. In the case of meals, the possibility of a free meal or poor people, demagogic speeches about meals and eating difficulties are natural in this Parliament. I would mention that in 2016 Parliament will spend 71.7 billion on this; this will increase by another HUF 2.2 billion in 2017. And since families, of course, have people looking for them, and some of these people may be working in the public sector, it is important to have career models that we have talked about several times before: teachers and law enforcement workers are now reflected in wage increases affecting public employees... - or will affect NAV employees at three paces in the coming years. But there are equally important career plans for staff in higher education teaching and research, which I have already mentioned, in the case of state officials. So this is the section that could be said from the point of view of families about the budget, and here I think every single statement I make is important, and that is why I shared it with you. If you were looking at the expenditure side - for lack of time, I would no longer go into it - I would mention just the numbers or the numbers we heard in the expozee. Nearly every important area in the 2017 budget will have additional resources: 270 billion surplus in education, 167 billion surplus in health - I note that both sectors could use these funds -, 66 billion more cultural support, 155 billion more in social security and welfare expenditure in 2017, and 27 billion more in support of sports and leisure sports activities. I, Honourable Parliament, think that the budget presented can be achieved, as we hope. I am basing this on the fact that the Orbán government has been able to keep the fiscal corner numbers in each budget submitted for a period of one and a half government cycles. For a long time I thought that the budget was a genre to imagine something, to say something about it, and then during the closing hours, as those who didn't speak a year earlier, we delete these numbers, and we accept the impossible spending of the government that we used to do in their time. For many years now, we have seen that the budget is the budget, the budget is the obligation, the Orbán government is managing sparingly, and so we have finally come to the point that today there are not only European Union resources on the side of development opportunities in the budget, but, if I am not mistaken, 1600 billion domestic budgetary resources. A few years ago, we even told ourselves, local government leaders among themselves, that the budget has no money, its own money to finance development. We have now come this far, we have to go further on this path, because I think that the consistent fiscal construction that this government has represented has a result, and this result is now visible to everyone. It is obvious to Congressman Tobias, but he is not in a position to tell us that. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-05-11-14	Dear Parliament, Mr Dániel Z. Kárpát, lead speaker of Jobbik, is the next speaker. Here you go.
u2016-05-11-15	Mr President, Dear House, On the subject of what we have just heard, we could ask, along with the most important presentation of the year, whether this is already a civil Hungary, or if it will get worse. The fact is that we are witnessing catastrophic processes, as we have just heard praises about the budget of a dried-up economy and addiction, which is quite simply unusual in this House. But let's start with the technical conditions. Even before last year's date, the government submitted this draft on 26 April compared to 13 May, and in fact broke up with a century and a half tradition, perhaps in order to favour international credit rating companies who still fail to upgrade Hungary for some reason. I would add: I am not a negative advocate, I claim that Hungary should already have that qualification, but I am not sure that it should walk because, once again, the Government of Hungary is trying to please these companies in a way that is perhaps unprecedented in Europe, by cutting down a century and a half into a corner, negling all kinds of technical and formal requirements and ignoring them. In particular, because the government has not yet accounted for the implementation of the 2015 budget, since the closure report was not submitted or submitted, and obviously the State Audit Office has not therefore verified or audited the period concerned. The Parliament has therefore not yet been able to grant discharge to the government in order to prepare a new draft budget at all. So when we talk about a breach of formal rules, we have to analyze the amazing situation in which a budget is submitted without closing. Once again, we're talking about unprecedented things. It is no coincidence that in other countries, from submission to adoption, such a draft budget may take four months, where appropriate, to negotiate what is ahead of us in the usual three steps with sufficient detail and responsibility, especially because when you planned this paper, and at the end of April when the submission took place, it was not yet possible to estimate with reasonable accuracy the figures of the implementation of the budget prior to the financial year. So you're working from numbers that either look like a belly attack or are completely unfounded. At best, we can only hope that these will be something near the facts. There are also professional blokes included in this proposal, for example, in a chapter on revenue related to state assets, in the second chapter of this chapter, there is a large number of billions of HUF dividends, but there is no explanation for it, no reference is made to the financial transactions behind this item. So you've submitted something you've forgotten, you couldn't explain in detail, you're asking for a blank check again. Oh, my God, how many times have we told you this in the last six years? So what we're seeing is that you're in the same shoes as in the last few days. I have to say: the fact data for 2015 and the expected data for 2016 are not known. The n-2 rule that may be bored and may be bored by those following the debate, but we will bring it up many more times, is again negligated, as in international practice a budget could indeed be laid down in three columns: according to the n-2 rule, it would be possible to compare what you are planning to do with the previous facts, and depending on that, a full evaluation could be placed on the table. But we see that you have not been open to this yet again. And so, let's get to the rough stuff - it's not like we've been able to pick up so many tasty subjects. But if, let's say, we look at the profits of the Hungarian National Bank, if we look at the annual profits of the MNB from the revaluation of foreign exchange holdings, in 2013 it realised 200 billion HUF, in 2014 511 billion HUF. We also see that in 2013 the central bank accounted for only HUF 3.3 billion for other expenses, but already in 2014 it accounted for 252 billion. So from 3.3 billion to 252 billion, the other expenses were mainly incurred as a result of a financial asset transfer to the foundations set up under the public thinking programme of Pallasz Athena. So they're talking about their planned games behind the curtain, trying to encrypt what and how the MNB foundations can applaud, how the money of foreign exchange credentials becomes art, painting, or how they expand the real estate portfolio. The thing is, it didn't work. You guys always ask me back, how'd you do it? We're happy to report no. [[10.50]] But the fact is that in all other areas, the same mindset with a very large breast can be seen, and we have to say that the MNB's balance sheet result in 2013 was more than HUF 26 billion, and in 2014 it was able to generate a profit of over HUF 27 billion. No share payment, no reserve charge was made in any year. Now, at least after the 2015 result, we have a dividend payment promise. But what we can see is that the huge amount of money that came into effect at the National Bank, mainly because of the weak forints and the conversion from the so-called settlement of foreign currency loans, so this is a part of the money for foreign exchange lenders, which would be rechannelable to those involved. Let's say, at least with the money from the credit-damaged people, we should have sent this money to a compensation fund where the most difficult people can be helped. So, depending on this, when a Christian Democratic lead speaker tells us that they saved the currency-loaners - he mainly talks about local governments, but obviously they also think about private individuals, because they have performed this repeatedly - we are dealing with quite simply a net lie. A net lie can be highlighted best by some numbers. We are talking about those who took this so-called loan at HUF 160-165. The luckier, the good friends received a HUF 180 end-payment option at the rate of HUF 180. And the simple Hungarian man received the almost market: 256 HUF exchange opportunity. It's an impertinent, yelling double standard. This legalized hundreds of billions on the banks' side in terms of money taken from people, so talking about saving foreign exchange credentials is simply a catastrophic mistake and a catastrophic sin. It is precisely because we can call this the budget of the dried-up economy because we lack the demand for credit-damaged people from the national economy, their purchases, from the local grocery store to the Hungarian small entrepreneurs, and in the case of many families, you have made so-called aided people and social beneficiaries - by making them - a huge quotation mark is to be understood here. This process would still be reversible, but it is not possible with net lies. So when you say you saved these people, you just don't tell the truth. Two more numbers to confirm that. Once again, after their so-called settlement, the number of debtors who have not been or are not fully satisfied for 90 days is climbing above 150,000, so the bomb of another disaster is ticking, and now the time will come when the amounts collected on the exchange-gate collection accounts will hit those affected, starting with the mass of new falls. In parallel, you did not extend the eviction moratorium, nor do you see from this draft budget how you want to help the credit-damaged, since you have not made the construction of the private bankruptcy humane and planable. With the National Asset Manager, which is hard to call help, they work with a pretty inhumane quota, they open that gate for even 3,000 people out of 150,000. And the pitiful situation is that you've got executives and bankers begging you to capitalize on the National Asset Manager, and you're not gonna do that, and you're gonna have to let tens of thousands of free seats fight. And what's that help like? They take people's property, they rent back their own property. But what happens in the case of a very unfortunate constellation? So if there is no Fidesz-KDNP government, and let's say that it is not followed immediately by a Jobbik government, or there will be no Jobbik government, so let's at least play with this principle: then it is a very strange color, let's say, it cannot be called Balliberal - but it will certainly be called that - that such a government will beat people's houses to the ground in a matter of seconds, and it will make it possible for those who have previously rented their own property to go to the edge of the trench. And, as we said the other day, they are not left at the edge of the ditch, but they are constantly shot with napalm, because these people are not allowed to live and stay in Hungary. This is also demonstrated by your private failure construction, where, even after five years, you can't afford a walk-away walk-off right, where the injured victim could at least start a new life without his debts, get new life opportunities. After a very strict period of five years, the bank, the creditor financial institution, is still far better off than if that loan had fallen in, or if it had been at a very depressed price, they would have tried to throw the property on the market, but you wouldn't have thought about it. And we have to say - I'm sure that Jobbik's government will come after this - that these things can be put in order, but the question is whether or not the credit victims will be free for another two years. [[Peter Hoppál intervenes.]] You can comment, but you will also have the opportunity to comment. We must say that what we are talking about here calls for meaningful comments, because you call it the budget for tax cuts and home creation, which is before us, and it is worth a few words about why you are doing all this and whether you can do all this. In recent times, Christian Democratic lead speaker said that the 27 percent VAT burden was relatively high - according to his interpretation. Well, the big deal is, you can't find anything higher in Europe, but in fact, in the world, if you look at decent national economies, you can't. This 27 percent VAT is already the hardcore level, so this is a world record VAT, let's say calmly, but it is the highest in Europe. And the concession that you're doing the right thing, I'm going to support this, the minimum reduction in cosmetic VAT, this affects 6-7 percent of the average family consumer basket, and you know it very well. And this 6-7 percent in the consumer basket, with such a discount, is equivalent to about a half or three-quarters of total VAT reduction, tops. The thing is, there's a gap between you and Jobbik. Jobbik's full package sets a single maximum of 5 per cent of the total VAT content of basic foods and consumer goods, and is very important. At least the first step should be a reduction to 5%, and then the boxing with the EU could start with what areas we can make further concessions. What we see is that when they say that they can offer a discount of up to HUF 35-40 thousand per year to a family with this minimum tax allowance of a cosmetic nature, you can see that what you can produce on an annual basis, the plan of Jobbik could put on the table of families in about two months, this would be a substantial relief. The budget would have its background, since we found hundreds of billions of forints in this draft, which would either be vague or mysterious or would be applauded for completely pointless purposes if we voted in favour of this draft. And we also need to see that your relatively high VAT, which is 27 percent of the world record, kills the wage increase you think is starting. Reality, on the other hand, must start with a very simple investigation, and the issue of emigration is also strongly linked here. An average Hungarian youth, on his way to work, clearly examines the possibilities of how long it will take him to obtain, say, a single home from the known average salary according to the KSH; in the case of family formation, the two young people will be able to obtain a home of their own. And they find that they are typically unable to use such a method of CSOK and 10+10 and formulas that are relatively rich and more fortunate, and if family help is not available, then they will not be able to get a home of their own within 10-15 years. This is what drives many people to emigration, which drives them to work abroad, while we see that you are talking about the CSOK, 10+10, which we do not want to abolish, it is about eligible formulas, but yet society, it is about 10 percent of those who need it. If we look at the composition of those who are interested in these constructions in financial institutions, we can see that most people, above 90% of them, are clearly interested in buying the apartment they use, want to expand, without creating a new subset, where appropriate; thirdly, they are thinking about energy modernisation. That is why we said that at least the preferential loan should be opened before these three life-like problems, as this is what most Hungarians face, and they are not buying a new-built residential property, because this, let's be honest, is the privilege of the luckier in today's economic circumstances. There would be a reserve for this in the budget. But if you're talking about putting in place your own investment from your own resources, I would suggest you do one. There is a need for a public-based housing scheme that opens up to young Hungarians not only to make their own property available, and not only to the richer, but also to rent where Hungarian contractors and Hungarian suppliers would create and build apartments in Hungary, but also to move into Hungary at depressed prices and state backgrounds, young people, middle-aged people and older people. The madness with which you are always coming is simply incomprehensible and inexplicable, that the government is committed to its own property, the newly built apartments. Okay, but once again, this affects about 10 percent of society - what about the other 90 percent? So we shouldn't turn home-building into a government PR communication stunt. According to this draft, your propaganda industry is now receiving more than ten times the amount of billboards to spread across the country and communicate the government's perceived or real results; it has increased to over 15 billion, which will only be used to advertise the government's performance in the next period. [[11.00]] That is why we are saying that there is a need for a public housing programme. I am amazed that this government does not perceive, for example, the situation in the Budapest rental market. It is quite clear that the various internet sharing solutions belonging to the sharing economy have removed thousands of properties from the Budapest rental market. There's been an incredible supply shortage. This raised prices, as it happened overseas, in other cities, so the model was known to you, but didn't interfere, and they didn't do anything. The aim would not necessarily be to ban the sharing economy, but to create legislation and climate where the possibility of tax avoidance would be minimized, but the price-raising effect of such supply constraints, which would otherwise destroy the lives of young people in Budapest, could be eliminated. And you pretend that you don't even perceive this problem, you don't realize that in Budapest the price of an apartment over 60 square meters can climb above 100 thousand forints. How are you going to get this out of the average Hungarian salaries? Impossible. However, you do not take into account real, existing problems. This draft budget does not provide an answer. We also need to summarize how you stand on other fronts of the freedom fight, such as the fight against sovereign debt. I'm amazed that you dare lie to me in a microphone that at least in this fight you have battle victories. The situation is much worse than you guys said. The debt management costs - these are the figures - will amount to HUF 1156 billion in 2017 appropriations. We also see that this is much more than the 1140 planned for 2015, and we also see that 1080 were separated by 2016. So we're able to detect minimal fluctuations that are roughly the same magnitude. [[Sándor Lezsák, vice-president of the Parliament takes the chair.]] If we look at this in proportion to GDP, the gross debt rate was 80,6 percent in 2010, and the fact is that this went down to 75,3% in 2015, but this is an improvement in the rate, not a reduction in the public debt. After all, we see that according to the communication of 31 March 2016, the debt of the central subsystem is HUF 25 473 billion. We also see that the public debt did not go down to the level that you promised in 2010 in the Széll Kálmán plan to 65-70 per cent of GDP, there is an amazing gap between promise and reality, but the government has increased its annual debt by an average of HUF 700-800 billion in seven years, or increases its government debt continuously for each period. It tells us all about your performance, that in seven years Hungary has paid some HUF 8000 billion and paid as interest. So, let alone a drop in magnitude, but your debt management is simply no different from the practice of the last quarter of a century. We can say that the figures, the billion forints, show a steady increase. But if, let us say, we look at all this in euro, then we can say that the debt has increased from EUR 78.4 billion in 2010 to EUR 80.4 billion in 2015, so a continuous increase can be shown. So don't lie about having at least battle victories in the war against sovereign debt, because they can't be shown. Once again, in seven years Hungary has paid some HUF 8000 billion for interest only. So this isn't about a substantial reduction in capital debt, it's about interest repayment. Think about it: if only half of this amount had been released, what miracles could have been done in the Hungarian national economy, along with a successful negotiation process. It is very difficult to conduct long discussions on economic growth, as here it is about foreign spill-over effects and the movements of our own retorted funds from the EU that have a substantial impact on this. The fact is that there is a set of public finances laws, which literally includes presenting, together with a statement, the framework figures for the planned appropriations for the three years following the budget year. You should look forward to at least three years in terms of both economic growth and other prognosis. You'll be stuck here at 2017, obviously, because this party isn't up to you. The international spill-over effects are clearly not seen. We see that while these foreign influences affect how much money can be spent in Hungary for home creation, how VAT can be reduced, they should not talk much about an independent, sovereign government margin, as it would take much more courage to show this. We also see that employment could be covered, with the promise of one million new jobs in the ten years. The Prime Minister has already set a target of five million, with which we would otherwise achieve about the Czech Republic, but the fact is that in spring 2010, the number of people employed was 3.8 million, which went up to 4.1 million in four years. We also see that labour statistics are primarily shaped by the development of the number of public workers. In this respect, it is worth considering how many percent of public workers have been able to return to the primary labour market. Here we can see that detailed data are available from the first half of 2015; 224 thousand people were released from the public employment system until then, 43 thousand of them, so 19 percent were able to work on the primary labour market, which is a very modest performance. In the meantime, what we see is that, while you're betting on public workers, the amount of taxpayers' money spent on this has also risen to brutal heights. A huge amount of HUF 270 billion has been allocated to this budget by 2015. In 2016, the National Employment Fund's Start Work Programme already includes an allocation of 340 billion. Next year, it's going to decrease slightly, but it's pretty much hitting the 300 billion-dollar level. This is a public employment programme, which is more of a social policy solution, but which is not capable of increasing normal economic performance, the so-called GDP cake. At the same time, there would be an outburst here, and there would be a solution here, too, if only two things were done with this public employment. Let us say that they would assess the 500,000 vacant Hungarian property, from which we claim that it would be possible to bring back to Hungarian life almost immediately as 80-90 thousand apartments, as well as to use the work force of these people for meaningful purposes in a public housing and home creation program, then a substantial shift could be achieved. But as long as they can provide 27 percent world record VAT to the Hungarian people, as long as their home creation and other solutions are for the luckier, the richer, until the tax press reduces them in substance, and until they say that they have saved the credit victims, but in fact they have abandoned the people who have been in trouble without their own faults, they send a very bad message to Hungary, and it is painful to say from this draft budget, but unfortunately, a picture of a dried-up economy is drawn up where even the fight against public debt has been lost. So we do not see the possibilities of a long-term eruption, so this package is absolutely unsupportable before us. Thank you for your attention. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2016-05-11-16	Thank you, Congressman. I salute my fellow Members. I give the floor to Congresswoman Erzsébet Schmuck, lead speaker of the LMP. You have the floor, Congresswoman.
u2016-05-11-17	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Unfortunately, I'm going to have to say something very similar to this year's budget a year ago. Hungary hasn't started on its way out in years. The government has led Hungary to a dead end, and this is not the first time we have said and supported it with facts. [[Intruder from the ranks of Fidesz: Let this be your problem.]] Now, with this budget, we're gonna park in this dead end, and no front, no back. This budget - just like last year's or this year's - is all about consolidating a fundamentally flawed economic policy. [[Interviews from Fidesz: This is last year's speech!]] It pours into concrete the economic policy whose sole purpose is to make Hungary the assembly plant of foreign multi-company companies. That is why the government has broken employees' rights, which is why it is suppressing interest representatives and, above all, intends to keep wages low in the country. [[Happy István: That's what you said last year! Interviews from Fidesz: This is last year's speech!]] There's only one advantage to the government's fact that for three years, the government has been filing an ongoing budget. We can now also clearly see the longer-term impact of budgets. However, the scale is disappointing. More than 40 percent of Hungarians live below the minimum living standards. This represented 41.5 percent of the population in 2015. Two million taxpayers earn below the minimum living, and more than 300 thousand of them are those whose work income does not even reach the poverty threshold. Today, in Hungary, 8 hours of work is too small to make a modest living, 8 hours of work is not enough to keep families from suffering. [[11.10]] It's no coincidence that an entire generation is about to decide on emigration. Another consequence of the misguided economic policy is that the Hungarian economy is still unable to stand on its own feet. Due to low wages, there is no internal demand, and EU funds are the only engine for growth. Foreign multi-enterprises in Hungary do not perform well if 80 percent of their profits are taken home, and this only further strengthens the dual economy. The government is artificially trying to keep economic growth alive, but it is only sustainable for a period of time, and then there will be a very tough crash. Therefore, the least we can do is welcome the fact that, apart from some, in fact, not very significant changes, the government has almost re-submitted last year's budget. The LMP feels obliged to show the Hungarian electorate that there is another way. The Party will therefore submit proposals for amendments to the 2017 budget, which are the basis for another economic policy, which will paint a completely different picture of Hungary. A country where you can live from work, where Hungarian SMEs are strategic partners instead of foreign multi-enterprises, and where closure becomes catching up. Let me talk a little bit more about what our problem is with the government's proposal and how the LMP would shape the budget, how it would create an opportunity to eradicate workers' poverty and launch a new economic policy that will bring real progress. Tax reduction. First, let's see what the government says. This year's communication panel says it's a budget for tax cuts. At the beginning of the last century, the penal code called it a giddy praise and three years imprisonment or a penalty of 100,000 kroner. To cut a budget of HUF 17 300 billion by HUF 100 billion, not a tax reduction; half a percent. Reducing the VAT on some basic foods to 5 percent does not mean much for deprived people, and a small increase in child benefit does not mean a step forward. A simple family can only increase its income by a few thousand forints, to a state leader by millions. By exaggerating a little bit, we can say that the government will spend more on advertising tax reductions than on tax cuts themselves. The government talks about tax cuts by taking half of a employee's total wage cost today. One forint for each wage is to be paid into the state register. We, on the other hand, would reduce the burden on work by using multi-key taxes for 90 percent of those living off the job. One of the root causes of these problems is that the government insists on a single-key tax to help the rich, which will punish the poor, but which the LMP would turn into a multi-key one, so that the net of the average wage earners can finally grow and the distribution will be fairer. The minimum wage would be tax-free and the individual income bands would be taxed at a rate of 0, 12, 24 per cent, up to 0 per cent, up to an average wage of 12 per cent and above 24 per cent. This increase in wages is also necessary because more people could be kept at home, labour shortages and employment would be reduced. We believe that the wage increase is the real investment today. In addition to the introduction of a multi-key tax, we would also add 200 billion to public sector wage planning. We see and hear that the government is a prisoner of the neoliberal theory that wage increases undermine competitiveness. This is reflected in statements that first the economy must be fixed, then the wages can be raised, i.e. the wage increase is considered to be distributed by the government. The economy will not recover if its capacity is not increased, and it will not grow if it is continuously exploited to the minimum level of living. It's a vicious circle that needs to be interrupted, involving trade unions and other interests. There is a need for a systematic and continuous increase in wages. The quality of the Hungarian workforce does not differ from Western Europe, so its productivity could be much higher. However, this would require resources that - in an ugly word - can regenerate itself, enabling it to increase its living conditions, health status, motivation and qualifications. This is not guaranteed by six wages compared to Western Europe. Wage increase in the public sector. The other government claims that with this year's budget, everyone can move forward a little bit. The 2017 budget message makes it clear in black and white that those whom the country has entrusted to the state are spending on themselves rather than on the people and families whose money should now be allocated. There's money for luxury, pomp and meaningless investments, but there's no money for a substantial and tangible increase in wages. Everyone who is part of the power system built by Fidesz can jump ahead, but ordinary Hungarian workers are getting closer and closer to the gap. Next year, 9 years will be the year the civil servants' payroll and the civil servant's salary fund, the state and the community's employees, have not received a salary increase for almost a decade now. It's amazing that 200,000 state employees' wages are below the minimum wage. It is also amazing that, while György Matolcsy's salary doubles - obviously because he is good with public money - there is still no financial appreciation for those who support the teaching work, they deceive health workers with uncertain promises that are not safe at all. Social workers will not be given a basic wage increase next year, and they may even be reduced, and the government will not deliver on its promise of a social career in 2017. Secondary-educated kindergarten children's educators, despite promises, do not seem to be able to enter the pedagogical career. And only one in three of the public administration workers will receive a wage increase, even though they promised a wage increase for all. According to the LMP, a wage increase is required. Instead of luxuries, workers should finally be paid, and where the state has a direct role in this, this should be done in the budget. What's the government's answer to that? With the 2017 budget, not only does it not reverse these tragic processes, but it also strengthens them: it spends 100 billion on the failed Paks expansion, it renews the Buda Castle for the government, distributes, but does not develop, does not create jobs on the campaign tour of the Modern Cities programme, gives 22 billion to the propagandaisterium, that is, Rogán to Antal's neighbours. What is the government's response to the scandalous contradiction of disintegration and meaningless luxury? He's ordering new statistics, changing the standard of poverty, cosmeticizing the data. Instead of fighting poverty, it's fighting poverty. Family policy. The government also said that next year's budget will significantly increase support for families. This would indeed be necessary, but the specific figures show something quite different. Fidesz continues to support only some of the families, and to the greatest extent those that would be least dependent on it. [[Dr. Peter Hoppál: That's not true!]] The 2017 budget is brutally honest about the preferences of the government, Fidesz. Hungarian families will be forced to conclude that most of them have been forgotten again. In an incomprehensible way, the government insists on supporting the better, in case sooner or later it pulls the poorer ones up. But the data show that the breakdown of society is more serious year after year. [[Márius Révész intervenes.]] How many years will it take before the government realizes that the underprivileged, even the vanishing middle class, must finally provide meaningful help? This budget proves that the government does not have the will, the ability to get rid of its lifeless dogmas and to support those who want to start a family, even if they are not among the rich. [[11.20]] Education. With the budget, we have at least come to the point where the government has admitted that there is a serious problem in education, in health care, otherwise why would it have given these sectors some help for appearances. However, this is far from enough to stop the break, let alone to make progress. The area of education receives extra resources, but this is only a fraction of the money that has been withdrawn from the system in recent years. There is little to know about the details of the 270 billion forints said by the Minister, but we assume that this will be reduced by the nearly 100 billion forints that the government should support the KLIK this year so that it does not collapse. But it is also a fact that we have heard a number of numbers from government politicians responsible for education in recent weeks. I'm sure we'll find out the real numbers later. Moreover, the current system of education is fundamentally flawed. Even if we put more money into a malfunctioning system, it won't work effectively. According to the LMP, the sustainable functioning of the school system remains short of HUF 200 billion. This would only bring us back to the 2010 level, and we think that in the longer term we should spend 15-20 forints out of every 100 forints in the budget. It would be necessary to put the teacher's career model in order, and we would not miss out on hiring staff directly helping teachers. In order to compensate for social disadvantages as soon as possible, we would extend early development services to the whole country, including by institutionalising existing successful practices. By restoring the vocational training system to four years of training, by strengthening theoretical training, by developing a mentoring system, we would enable students to make a leap in higher education, adult education and higher education. Those who do not continue to learn will also have the skills to be retrained at any time later if the labour market requires them to do so. Dear Parliament, LMP wants a country where everyone can get in the education system as long as they can and as long as they want. Our long-term goal is to have at least four graduates in Hungary out of ten. To this end, it is necessary to stop the systematic reduction in the number of candidates for higher education and the number of students recruited, which has started in recent years. We need as many graduates as possible, as the small and medium-sized enterprises that they have launched will bring back most of the 1.5 million jobs they lost at the time of the change of regime. This requires the rescue and development of higher education institutions in rural areas. Rural colleges and universities are needed to build their training structure on the needs of the local economy. The stimulation of the local economy and the development of higher education in rural areas are linked. This gives young people the prospect of not moving away from home because of the lack of opportunities. They will also create jobs for those with lower education. Quality reform and European competitiveness of higher education cannot be imagined without drastic expansion of resources, but this is lacking in the budget for next year. Dear House, According to the LMP, these expenditures are necessary in order to achieve a new economic model in Hungary; an economic policy that is not based on the fact that the Hungarian workforce will be the cheapest in Europe, but on the fact that employers want to pay the wages of well-trained Hungarian workers because of their knowledge. There is a need for a radical increase in resources and a change of perspective in primary and secondary education to give everyone the opportunity to develop their skills. We want a country where the ability and diligence of the individual depends on what it becomes, and it should not be discouraged by the financial situation, family circumstances, residence. According to the LMP, one of the main sources of economic development and job growth is the quality knowledge, preparedness and momentum of young people coming out of higher education. Health. You can also be happy that you will get more than HUF 150 billion in health care. Unfortunately, however, this is enough to treat only symptomatically. They forget to mention that the multiples of this have been removed from the system in recent years, bringing the entire Hungarian health care to the brink of collapse or beyond. The system is now practically crashing. That's what patients know, doctors know, nurses know, but the government won't listen. The failure of health care will not be corrected by the 2017 budget. Most of the additional funds are likely to go to the repayment of debts accumulated in recent years, to the filling of the most serious holes, but there will be little to really improve the system. Therefore, there will be little to raise wages, and that would be a key issue. Everyone can see that it would be much easier to keep doctors and health workers at home than to lure them home or train new ones instead. Health wage increases are therefore not only a moral obligation for the government, but also a short-term return on investment. To this end, the LMP would spend an additional HUF 60 billion on raising the wages of healthcare workers in addition to the introduction of a progressive tax system favourable to those looking below the average. This would be enough to keep a large number of healthcare workers at home. An additional HUF 40 billion would increase the hospital's basic fee so that the hospital's debts would not continue to grow again. Today, the government is simply giving health institutions less resources than they need to operate, keeping them dependent, and forcing them to save on the health of patients. We'd like to put an end to this situation. A few words about pensions, too. Pensions increase by 0.9 percent in 2017. According to the government, pensions hold their value, which is not true, since they count against average inflation and not to the consumer basket of pensioners. At present, inflation is largely so low due to the low oil price which is infiltrating. Fuel and other related products represent a much smaller proportion in the consumer basket of pensioners. The same is the case with the fall in the price of electrical devices, and we could go further. The government finds pensioners an unnecessary nuisance anyway. He also tries to outsource, privatize, shoot children, relatives. While he looks down on them - what he proves is that in the public sector he forbade those after 65 to continue working - the pensioners of the future can expect even less. The government has failed to honour its promises regarding the pension system. Parliamentary resolution obliged him to create individual invoices, which we have been waiting for since 2011. A year was the deadline then. Private pension funds have been swallowed up by the state, but there are no plans for the pensions that were covered, how they will be paid. Corruption. We also need to talk about where the money goes, why it doesn't get paid, why it doesn't get jobs, why it doesn't get to renovate rural roads, why local authorities need to spare it, why there's no chalk in schools or rubber gloves in hospitals. There are three reasons for this. On the one hand, the budget structure is simply wrong. Those who cannot be burdened will be overloaded by the government, and those who should be burdened will be spared. At least such a problem is that there is already a considerable amount of visible money on corruption channels at macro-economic level. There would be more money in the budget today, more can be done for the country if the channels of corruption could finally be closed. It is quite obvious that there is no will for this. It is clear what this government thinks of taxpayers' money, and there is no more eloquent evidence today than György Matolcsy. The government regularly mixes their wallets with citizens' wallets, even though the government received the money from taxpayers only for use, not to finance its own interests. [[11.30]] Not to mention that today there are several competing interests, which will cost even more, as we called attention to this danger when their oligarchs fell on each other. We know that what we and every sober man, together with us, call corruption is the essence of government policy, as a person close to the government would kindly draw our attention to it. We know that corruption, according to the government, is nothing more than the support given to national entrepreneurs, but unlike you, we also know that corruption is ultimately theft of the most shameful kind. The government takes the money of Hungarian families and gives it to the relatives of Fidesz, such as György Matolcsy and his hundred cousins. In a Hungary where the government would act against corruption and not to maintain corruption, a number of measures could strengthen the protection of forints. If there was a will to fight corruption, the State Audit Office would be the centre of the fight against corruption. The LMP has previously submitted a bill to extend the Court's tasks, and would have required audit by auditors in corruption cases, and would provide additional resources for the extended tasks, as we attempt to do in our amendment proposal. In a Hungary where the prosecution would carry out its duties, even if it were the corruption cases of previous governments, and even if the current government's affairs had to be investigated, it would be important to further expand the anti-corruption department, further training of prosecutors dealing with corruption cases, and to strengthen opportunities for international cooperation. A sad sighting of the failure to fight anti-corruption is a multitude of long - long - term, far - from - clowning procedures. In the shadow of the countless judgments in Strasbourg due to the length of proceedings, adequate resources should also be provided in the 2017 budget to strengthen the role of the courts in the rule of law, to increase the smoothness, efficiency and, not least, to increase the visibility of their operation. The LMP would spend an additional HUF 1 billion on this. Unfortunately, however, we have clear evidence that shows that even the appearance of the fight against corruption is not important to the government. Either the resources are not provided or are not given stronger tasks and powers than in the case of the Court of Auditors. Corruption, however, costs a lot. Taxpayers' money disappears, public money goes into private pockets, as you say, loses the nature of public money, and eventually it doesn't get to what resources should be spent on. Corruption costs can be seen in broken hospitals, unfulfilled health jobs, careless patients, disintegrating education systems and low wages. Today everyone in Hungary encounters corruption, more precisely: the cold spot of taxpayers' money. No encryption will help. Everyone knows what's going on and what's supposed to happen. Unfortunately, it does not reassure anyone that what is delayed will not pass, because until we stop corruption, it will not be any consolation that they will have to account for greed someday if Hungary pays the price. Wasteful expenses. We can't just ignore wasteful expenses. In many cases, they do not even bother to keep secrets, but they are completely openly, almost proud of their hobbies or realize their dreams on taxpayers' money. We could talk about stadium construction, moving the government to Castle or installing the Liget. The time frame would not be enough to list all the luxurious, luxurious expenses and hundreds of billions of them disappearing on their altars in the budget lines. However, as a pro-green politician, I must say something about an extremely unnecessary but extremely expensive item. The government plans to spend 100 billion forints on the Paks expansion next year, while the building permits are still missing. The government is so afraid of falling for the entire project that it does not dare to draw any forints from the Russian loan yet, but spends unscrupulously on it the Hungarian taxpayers' money. Finally, let us withdraw the not-so-fun balance and say this: this budget is the worst choice among the alternatives available today. It contains bad decisions for bad goals. It does not solve urgent problems, it does not help Hungary. This is the budget for further detachment and fragmentation. It's no good but to increase the gap between government beneficiaries and everyone else. This budget is a budget for private interests. The government wrote it, but the authors' hands were taken and controlled by oligarchs. Should we ask the Hungarian people who are waiting for the budget to finally serve their interests, how would they vote? Would they also spend on moving to Paks, the Castle, prestige investments, or on schools, nurses, support for families? The government pretends that there is enough money for fidesz obsessions and for Hungarian families living in an increasingly difficult situation at the same time. That's what the lie of the....everyone can do one step forward. But when you look at the numbers, the raw reality is revealed: there is no money for everything, and the government makes bad decisions. We will prove in the budget debate that this does not have to be so that there is another way, there is an alternative. And it is possible to lead Hungary out of the dead end it has come to in recent years. Thank you for your attention.
u2016-05-11-18	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. We now have the first independent Member to make a statement. I give the floor to Congresswoman Szabó Timea.
u2016-05-11-19	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, The budget presented and supported by Fidesz-KDNP next year is a budget of tyrants and moral zeros. Look over and over again at what they're giving their names to again. Look at all these blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah! Look at all the meaningless data that the SAO and similar pro-government, government-like, so-called experts have said. There's nothing more to this budget than your thefts, people's waste. The 2017 budget would also be envied by the world's most notorious dictators. You guys managed to put together another budget proposal that was a megalomaniac, a thief, a robber, a public budget. North Korean dictator Kim Jongun will come to Viktor Orbán to take lessons from him [[An uproar in the pro-government benches.]] How to steal money from people and how to turn it on circuses and their own monuments. According to Mihály Varga, next year's budget is a budget for predictability and security. Of course, it's your security budget, not your security budget. For eight million people, this will bring further poverty next year. In 2017, you will take a thousand billion forints from the people again. Raise your hand, my honourable members of the Government, who, for even a moment, has experienced deprivation, poverty. Well, I see a lot of hands, actually, zero. That's exactly what's wrong with you guys. They have no idea of the poverty, the deprivation that millions of people face in Hungary today. [[Dr. Peter Hoppál: You're such a demagogue. Listen to yourself.]] You have no idea what you're putting your name to again. But you know what? I'll help you understand. Let's take a look at the numbers and see what you're spending next year. Orbán's move to Castle costs HUF 50 billion. Antal Rogán's propaganda department is spending another HUF 22 billion. The life-threatening and unnecessary Paks II. Forints 100 billion will be applauded for investment. [[11.40]] There is another HUF 77 billion earmarked for stadiums in the budget. And the big lie, when they say it goes to swimming pools and mass sports, is because your budget has only HUF 4 billion on it. So they don't spend money on the sport of the people, the children, but on Viktor Orbán's megalomania and madness. The Városliget project, which is about cutting trees again, is divided into HUF 32 billion. The National Horse Rider, which will be built by Lőrinc Mészáros, is separated by 2 billion forints. Let's take a look. Who, then, does not need a national horseman in Hungary today? Well, obviously millions will go there! It costs just as much for the National Horse Corps as they're taking away from the family allowance again next year. For the public media, your propaganda channels, 70 billion forints were earmarked. If we add these numbers together, this is more than 350 billion HUF, which will be spent exclusively on Fidesz-KDNP and government circuses and entertainments next year. But let's see what they don't spend on next year. First of all, I would like to send a message to Lajos Szűcs, who is, of course, no longer in the room, who says that the government is supporting the Hungarian family's home next year, and then he added that there is no need to describe how good this will be for the construction industry. But who, in particular, will be good at construction? Of course, to the good friend of István Garancsi, Viktor Orbán, who wins all the public procurements with Markettel, who is now in the thirtieth position of the hundred richest Hungarians with his private assets of HUF 24 billion. But let's see what they're not spending. The community service program will take 42 billion forints. It's not enough that you've made hundreds of thousands of people wage slaves, the most vulnerable people without at least giving them any prospect of the future, even kicking them. Today there will be 50,000 forints for a public worker in Hungary. Do you know how much that is? Do you know what 50,000 forints is? [[Dr. Peter Hoppál: Twice the twenty-eight thousand!]] That's one potato a day and one greasy bread. But I didn't see a hand when I asked who it was who had any idea what deprivation was in Hungary, so obviously you don't know anything about it. [[Dr. Peter Hoppál: Does Demagogy hurt?]] They subtract 42 billion forints from education, so I do not understand that when they say that more is being spent on education, what is it really about. It's written in black and white! I just want to ask you how this is going to be a wage increase; how will there be a wage increase for non-educator educators to whom you have allegedly promised. Service pensions are reduced by HUF 17 billion. So those retired cops, firefighters who've worked their whole lives in danger, they're giving them a lot less again. But also for the disabled, whom Viktor Orbán has already humiliated and defrauded once, he gets 2.5 billion forints less. It turns out they're not cheats, but it's okay, let's kick them, you say. They're taking 3 billion forints out of orphanage. You guys who talk about family all the time. Of course, I understand that a child who doesn't have parents and grows up in an orphanage doesn't live in a family, so let's not help that. I can't believe this inhumanity, this heartlessness that you guys are doing year after year! We're talking about orphans! The family allowance is HUF 3.2 billion, despite the fact that the family allowance has not been increased in the eighth year. Is that how they help families? Or do they help families, the wealthy few thousands of families who themselves belong to, who will benefit from family tax relief and various construction subsidies? What kind of construction will a community worker start next year, tell me what you think they can use as support?There will be no more money to feed children than before. In the same way, there will be no money during breaks, no money for the weekend meal, even though we are talking about 550 thousand children. And then let's look at the health care you think will get an extra 160 billion forints next year. But where exactly is this money going to go? Because every time I've asked Zoltán Balog and Secretary of State of Ónodi-Szűcs in the last few weeks, in a written question, how much they're going to get for a wage increase, they haven't responded once. The reason they didn't answer me was because they didn't dare to admit that a big zero would get to the nurses, the hospital workers, again. At best, doctors get some support again. And, of course, in this 160 billion, what's in it? It's a super hospital in Budapest. This is very necessary when the János Hospital collapses, the István Hospital collapses, the László Hospital. Let them confess, my fellow Members and the Government, that they will again not renovate either the János Hospital, László or the István Hospital, but they want to build a new, completely unnecessary super-hospital from zero minutes. The problem is, you guys keep lying and lying and lying and not admitting it to anyone. They think that these stupid numbers that they're filling people's heads with are gonna make it better for anyone in this country. Let's take a look at the medical staff for a moment, by the way. You know, at the hospital where I worked as a nurse. [[There's a grumble in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] In a month, four nurses quit because they couldn't make a living, 11 out of 100 janitors stayed in the hospital, the rest quit, and just when I was there, the elevator just happened to break down in cardiology. Do you know where we had to call an elevator repairman? Miskolc. The elevator mechanic quit his job at the hospital years ago because he hasn't had a raise in 15 years. And a hospital in Budapest, you know, called an elevator mechanic from Miskolc. Because you do know that hospital staff not only includes nurses, but also cleaners, surgeons, sterilizers, elevator mechanics and technicians. We're waiting for them to come clean about what a raise they're gonna get. The Dialogue protests for Hungary against the budget of tyranny and mad waste. We're not gonna let you push millions down again while hundreds of billions go to your circus entertainments. Today, I have tabled a 120 billion HUF amendment to raise wages for healthcare workers alone. This would mean a salary increase of about 70,000 forints, and it would fit into the budget, you see, but it shouldn't be used for moving to Castle. We also submitted an extra HUF 50 billion for the children's meal. We know very well that according to experts, this amount of money would also be needed in addition to providing warm food to half a million children in need once a day every day of the year. For the family allowance, we also submitted HUF 22 billion to increase this amount to at least HUF 15 000. And we'd give the daycare workers an extra HUF 4 billion. But these are still symptomatic treatments. The Dialogue presented the basic income budget for Hungary, as it is the only long-term solution that drastically and immediately reduces poverty in Hungary and, for the first time in Hungarian history, eliminates poverty. For the adult population, 50,000 forints a month, for the children 25,000 forints a month, for pregnant mothers 70,000 forints a month with a net minimum wage of 100,000 forints. Before you write down this budget, I will tell you that after Finland and Ontario, Canada, you are about to hold a referendum on the basic income in Switzerland. So this is not a depraved idea, and it is also considered in Europe and North America, in the welfare states, let alone in a country where 4 million people live below the minimum living standards. Ladies and gentlemen of the Government, This tyrant, morally zero budget proposal will be withdrawn immediately! Forget about spending money on your own entertainment again. It's public money, it's not your allowance we're talking about right now. Give it to the people, and not to themselves. Give it to the people before they throw millions more into poverty! Don't take a step forward, but millions of Hungarian people, who are constantly being ignored every year! Thank you for listening. [[Dr. István Józsa applauds. Dr. Peter Hoppál:]]
u2016-05-11-20	Thank you, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, It is now up to the voice of the minority advocate invited by the committee representing the nationalities. I give the floor to the German ethnic advocate Ritter Imre, who will present the first sentences of his speech in his mother tongue and then translate it into Hungarian. You have the floor. [[11.50]]
u2016-05-11-21	Sehr geehrter Herr Vorsitzender! Sehr geehrtes Parliament! Erlauben Sie mir bitte, dass ich im Namen und im Auftrag vom Ausschuss der in Ungarn lebenden Nationalitäten unseren Standpunkt bezüglich des Gesetzesvorschläges Nr. T/10377. uber den ungarischen Haushaltsbudget - im Zusammenhang mit den Nationalitätenbedarf übergreifende Teilen - erörtere. Wie es schon gewöhnt ist - wenn es gesagt werden kann - fange ich meinen Diskussionsbeitrag mit einem Zitat von Johann Wolfgang von Goethe an. Er hat gesagt:., Toleranz sollte eigentlich nur eine vorübergehende Gesinnung sein: sie muss zur Anerkennung führen. Dulden heißt bezidigen. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Mr President, Dear House, Allow me, on behalf of the Committee on Nationalities in Hungary, to express our position on the central budget for 2017 T/10377. Bill No. 1 concerning the parts of the legislation concerning the needs of the nationalities. My comment - if you can say so, now traditionally - begins with the quote by Johann Wolfgang von Goethe: . The tolerance can only indicate a temporary condition that should lead to recognition. Accepting in itself is an insult. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Let me briefly explain Goethe's quote on ethnicities in Hungary. From the perspective of acceptance, tolerance from a nationality, it's like they just tolerate, tolerate their presence. For centuries, they have added their knowledge, their work, their talents to the prosperity of the country in which they lived and whose citizens they were. If necessary, they sacrificed their lives for Hungary. Accepting is therefore not enough; only acceptance is an insult in itself. We expect more, we want more: recognition. Our ancestors' lives provide a sufficient basis for recognition. We're still working on it. It's a condition of recognition, and it's based on knowledge. More than a year and a half ago, at the closure of the 2013 central budget, I started by saying that we are both in an easy and difficult situation. On the one hand, the easy situation was caused by the fact that, unfortunately, we Hungarian ethnicities had little to do with the creation of budgetary laws in 2013 and the previous years, so that we could give an honest opinion on its implementation without any responsibility. On the other hand, we were in a difficult situation, because that first minority parliamentary contribution should have taken place here in the Hungarian Parliament more than 20 years earlier, so we have to eliminate almost two decades of failure in every respect as soon as possible. Then, for minutes, it was possible and had to be classified, for decades, what an unworthy state the nationalities in Hungary had been forced to live and operate. Just as an example and as a reminder. The framework available for the operational support of national minority civil society organisations and the support of cultural programmes has not changed since 2002 and did not cover a fraction of the needs received at that time, 10-15 percent. The budget of HUF 30 million at the time for the native language student camps was so low compared to the needs that it was not even worth applying for. On average, the annual operating support of the municipal self-governments was HUF 222 thousand gross, corresponding to HUF 14 500 per month net. Economic, financial and administrative costs of national minority self-governments continued to increase without increasing subsidies, with changes in public finance legislation and various legal requirements. In summary, the support of nationalities living in Hungary was in a deplorable state at the time. At the same time, it was already possible to say and there were positive changes of hope. It was undoubtedly the most important and positive change in 2013 from a nationality point of view that, in the case of national public education institutions maintained by national authorities, and here I stress that not only national, but also local minority self-governments and their associations, there has been a significant increase and normative increase in support. Through the 2013 amendment of the Act, Parliament's elections in 2014 provided Parliament's representation to 13 nationalities living in Hungary, which opened up new opportunities for us. The first serious result of Parliament's representation was that we were able to achieve a breakthrough in the 2015 Central Budget Act by increasing the support of less than HUF 4 billion previously and, for many years, unchanged by around HUF 2 billion, by more than 50 percent. Less than half a year later, in the 2016 Central Budget Act, the 13 nationalities living in Hungary received another significant increase of HUF 2 billion and HUF 63,4 million. As a combined effect of the two years, we have been able to achieve substantial improvements in the following areas. We have raised the operating and support funding framework of national minority NGOs from HUF 110 million to HUF 330 million, i.e. threefold. The existing 30 million-dollar framework for minority mother tongue student camps has been increased to 270 million forints, i.e. nine times over the two years. In addition, we have always, everywhere and in every situation, treated this as a top priority. We have tripled the overall operating support of local ethnic authorities, the so-called task-based, differentiated support framework. Support for national minority self-governments and ethnic media as well as institutions maintained by national minority authorities was increased by 36 percent in 2015. We have been able to provide a number of individual decision-making complementary support frameworks in important areas such as support for ethnic theatres and support for small minority public education institutions. Finally, what was also particularly important for our future is that in the budget a new title was opened to ensure the investment, renovation and tendering framework of the ethnic public education and cultural institutions operating in the maintenance of national governments and associations, with HUF 441.2 million in 2015, which doubled to HUF 882.4 million in 2016. After all these extremely joyful, long-awaited changes, we think that this is a moment in which all the problems, tasks and tensions that continue to exist must be thanked without reservation. What has happened in the last narrow year and a half in the central budget laws of 2015 and 2016 is almost unprecedented to us. With these two parliamentary decisions, the support of nationalities living in Hungary in the past was increased to more than HUF 8 billion. It can be said without exaggeration that this is a positive change that has not been seen in Hungarian politics in the last hundred years in relation to nationalities living in Hungary. I travel all over the country, the various commemorations, the events of the national government, association assemblies, competitions, conferences, ethnic public hearings, ethnic youth, regional and national poems, prose, singing, music, dance competitions, which are the same regardless of location and nationality: the first sentence of the members of the nationalities is always thanking, yes, something has finally moved and started. Returning to Goethe, we feel recognition, respect. [[12.00]] But in order not to speak in general, let me just give you a specific example. Last night I spoke to Zoltán Schmidt about Pécs, who is an emblematic leader and member of the Germans in Baranya, who, in the last 20 years, has been critical of the Hungarian government's politics with Hungarian ethnicities, so to speak, he appreciated it with explicit honesty, mostly criticized it. When he found out that I was preparing for the speech, he said, "Thank them, Emmerich." In Baranya, Branau, I talk to anyone of our people, everyone says that through the association, through the minority self-government, through the applications, through the ethnic public education institutions, everyone feels that our situation has changed. Make sure you tell them. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. [[Applause from the benches of the governing parties.]] So on behalf of Zoltán Schmidt and our hundreds of thousands of ethnicity colleagues belonging to 13 Hungarian ethnicities, we thank you very much this time. Herzlichen Dankeschen! In this situation, after these two years, we arrived at the 2017 Central Budget Act, to which we started preparing national needs in January 2016. Now, four months later, I am not yet able to report concrete amounts of aid, and there are three reasons for this. On the one hand, those who have been looking at the very positive changes and figures of the last two years that I have listed so far, and who only know them, see, they have every right to suggest that the nationalities in Hungary have received a serious increase in support in the previous years compared to the general increase in the budget. And based on that knowledge, and from that point of view, they are absolutely right. At the same time, who sees the process, the content behind it, how deep we started, in order to preserve our mother tongue, identity, traditions, to give it back to our children, and rather to give it back to our children, and how much we are in the last hour, he also knows that the last two years have only been enough to hold on, to have faith again, and to start with a new impetus on the path that can ensure the survival of the nationalities in Hungary. The reconciliation, awareness and awareness of these two points of view, opinions, and the establishment of an appropriate consensus were the characteristics of the conciliation process for the 2017 budget. Third, during the preparation of the 2017 Central Budget Act, we learned in the second half of March 2017 that the 2017 Central Budget Bill will be drawn up and submitted in a new structure. This means that from the point of view of nationalities living in Hungary, national minority subsidies in a separate annex, we now know that this Annex No 9 is included, while the regulation, the relevant Government Decree No 428 is abolished. The main parts of the regulation are also included in Annex 9 to the Finance Act, but the EMMI is authorised to regulate enforcement issues not covered by the Budget Act in the EMMI Regulation. During the very intensive discussions of the last four weeks, there were significant and practical differences between the views of Hungarian ethnicities at NEB and ONÖSZ level, as well as the opinions of the professional wallets that were repeatedly conflicting with each other. Therefore, we consider it important to express briefly the common position of the Hungarian nationalities and its essence here too. In the last year and a half, we have already mentioned several times in our speeches in Parliament that, as clearly positive changes have been in the numerical increase in national minority support, there have been, in our view, wrong efforts and sometimes wrong decisions in regulatory areas. In particular, on the one hand, the management rules of municipal authorities were tried to draw on local minority self-governments, which is completely unviable. On the other hand, national self-governments have been tried to include or classify among civil society organisations supported by the application system, which would significantly limit their self-management and are incompatible with the principle of local government. Thirdly, instead of encouraging economic, long-term farming, rational savings are prohibited by making it difficult for national authorities to fulfil their basic tasks, forcing them to wasteful farming. Rethinking and regulating all these issues has been accelerated and urgent by the new system of the 2017 budget. In recent weeks, we have reached a transitional regulation which, together with the already agreed amendments to be tabled, is acceptable for us. At the same time, we agreed with NGM and EMMI that the 2017 rules on the granting, use and settlement of aid are temporary and, following the adoption of the 2017 Central Budget Act, we will review the regulatory issues relating to minority self-governments in a new and general manner without any time and legislative constraints. We would also like to emphasise that we do not, by chance, want to oppose transparency or any level of control, order and rank. On the contrary! Whether it is an audit by the Treasury, the State Audit Office or the Ministry of Commerce, we accept and even require it in every respect. At the same time, we will take action with all our might against unnecessary, pointless measures that will only increase bureaucracy, administration and the costs involved, which would prevent the effective use of awarded national minority support for the most important purposes of ethnic communities. In conclusion, returning to the numerical part of the 2017 budget, we can already say that we closed the conciliation process on Monday. The government support decision is expected to be taken today, which we hope to report tomorrow in my final comment on the concrete amount of consensus. In any case, I would like to ask you, already and in advance, to support, like in the last two years, the proposals for amendment of the nationalities living in Hungary to be submitted to the 2017 Budget Bill. Thank you for listening. Danke für Ihre Aufmerksamkeit! [[Applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2016-05-11-22	Thank you very much for the speech by Mr Imre Ritter, a German ethnic advocate. Dear Parliament, Before the two-minute speeches come, I will give the floor to Mr Péter Benő Banai, State Secretary.
u2016-05-11-23	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, I think it is important that, after the first comments, I give an opinion and a position, because I have the impression that only a part of the honourable Members of Parliament have read the bill on the budget that we are debating. I have the impression that the representatives of opposition factions simply do not know the budget we are talking about. [[Interview from the benches of the MSZP: No way!]] In addition to not knowing this draft budget law, they did not listen to the opinion of the Budget Council; they did not listen to the opinion of the State Audit Office; they did not read the newspaper [[Dr. István Józsa: We have a different opinion!]] they don't look at what international organisations say. [[Sándor Szabó: Can we have another opinion? Dr. István Józsa: This is a Secretary of State comment!]] And on the basis of their own views, they claim that all information is excluded, [[Interview from the ranks of the MSZP: Fidesz faction leader says...]] the budget is a budget for fraud. They claim that this budget is the budget of a dried up economy. They claim that the government is pursuing an economic policy and preparing a budget [[Ildikó Bangóné Borbély: Have you read today's news, Mr. Secretary of State?]] Which led the economy to a dead end. I think that anyone who looks at the budget figures, the economic policy numbers, sees the exact opposite of these allegations. [[Interview from the ranks of the MSZP: This is good for Andy Vajna!]] If you have not looked at the budget proposal and the figures, I respectfully ask you to review public Eurostat data. [[Ildikó Bangóné Borbély: We will talk about it!]] Let me mention one or two figures: Between 2005 and 2010, Hungary's real GDP changed by minus 1.2 percent on average, by 8.8 percent between 2010 and 2015. [[Dr. Peter Hoppál: No comment! Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] This so-called real convergence, the Hungarian economy has grown at a pace far beyond the EU average, based on Eurostat data from the European Commission in recent years. [[Interviews from the ranks of the MSZP.]] [[12.10]] As far as public debt is concerned, public debt has always increased after 2002. [[Dr. István Józsa: GDP is also!]] From 2011 onwards, it decreased in proportion to GDP each year. Thus, as you say, Mr President, the Hungarian government debt decreases year after year in proportion to GDP. [[Interview from the lines of the MSZP: At a given moment!]] I would add that the European Union's trend was quite the opposite. General government deficit: you know exactly that Hungary has been under the excessive deficit procedure since 2004. Congressman József Tóbias may call the budget for the fraud budget for 2017, but I ask what his opinion is about the years before 2010. [[Dr. István Józsa: State Secretary politicalizing! Dr. Peter Hoppál: Good. That's your job.]] I can ask you now that you are concerned about the structural balance: before 2010, when there was a 9 percent deficit, these questions were not asked. [[Róbert Szigó: That's right!]] He's worried about raising pension expenditure. I ask: when the 13th month pension was abolished [[Dr. István Józsa: Who gave the 13th pension? You did the math!]] So that question didn't come up? [[The president's ringing the bell.]]
u2016-05-11-24	Don't yell, Congressman, please. [[Ildikó Bangóné Borbély: Just shout! Dr. István Józsa: Professional Secretary of State does this, Mr. President?! Márius Révész: Speaking numbers!]] Here, Mr. Secretary, we're listening.
u2016-05-11-25	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Thank you very much for the compliment that I am qualified to be a secretary of state, and I appreciate that. [[Bangóné Borbély Ildikó: We don't think so!]] And it's because of professionalism that I'm trying to confront you with your claims, I'm telling you facts, and that's why I think it's important that you get to know the facts. [[Dr. István Józsa: Pure party politics! The president's ringing the bell.]] Some claims factually...
u2016-05-11-26	Mr. Secretary, I'd like a moment of your time. I would ask the socialist representatives to acknowledge that, despite their yelling, this does not go through television, so it is absolutely unnecessary. [[Interruption from the ranks of the MSZP: That's not why we're doing it! Robert Zsigo: It's just a habit, not a reason! Dóra Dúró: There is no television broadcast!]] Please sign up for a two-minute speech, as did Congressman Nándor Gúr... [[Intercoms.]] That's right. As Nándor Gúr applied for a two-minute speech, he will say, and then the next Member will be heard. [[Interjection from the lines of the MSZP: The comments are not yelling! Ildikó Bangóné Borbély: Parliamentary genre, Mr President!]] You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2016-05-11-27	Thank you very much, Mr. President, for your help. I respectfully ask opposition representatives that when they make statements, they should be supported by facts. So the claims that the government is extracting resources from health care and education are simply not true. [[Róbert Szigó: That's right!]] With great respect, I ask you to give me a factual description of the nature of the cuts in expenditure on which appropriation was made, and with great respect, if you are talking about the 2017 budget, I would like to ask you to take into your hands the document that the Government has submitted and which has been given an opinion by two independent bodies, the Fiscal Council and the State Audit Office. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties. Dr. István Józsa and Ildikó Bangóné Borbély intervene.]] If they had done that, they would have looked at the budget documents. [[Dr. Peter Hoppál: That didn't bother them!]] then you could have seen it exactly. [[Nándor Gúr intervenes.]] that health spending will increase from 2016 to 2017 by more than HUF 166 billion. [[Dr. István Józsa: After four hundred decrease!]] If they had actually looked at how education's expenditures would have changed, they would have seen [[Nándor Gúr: Ask those involved who experience it! Intercom from Fidesz to Nándor Gúr: Put your glasses on because you can't see the numbers!]] that the educational extra expenditure is over HUF 200 billion. At a pre-arranged level, they can see where there's a change. I accept that there is no perfect budget [[Dr. István Józsa: Incompetence!]] because there are a number of tasks, a number of problems ahead of us, which need to be resolved. My statement is that the economic policy that broke up radically with the practice before 2010 has achieved results, these results are confirmed by the facts, and these results make it possible for us to take steps in 2017 that add value to the population, to the broad sections of families. [[Dr. István Józsa: That is not true!]] making progress with our macro-economic indicators [[Dr. István Józsa: Now you're lying!]] , employment, growth and current account figures are well developed. Mr. President, I can't help overhearing yelling at you. [[Ildikó Bangóné Borbély: It's meant to be heard!]] I'm forced to refuse the word lie. And allow me to reject, if you will, on behalf of the government, on behalf of the government, the statements made by Congresswoman Timea Szabó, on behalf of the government, about all the lies, the budget for your theft. Congresswoman [[Intercoms from the ruling parties: He's not here! He doesn't mind.]] Unfortunately, these allegations, I think, are unworthy in a professional debate, and if you are referred to as the State Secretary of State, I would like to ask with respect that we talk about the numerical and factual figures of the 2017 budget. [[Ildikó Bangóné Borbély: We will say it!]] I think that if this happens, we can analyse next year's budget in terms of where it represents real progress - in the area of VAT reduction, home creation or public sector wage increases - and we can analyse the areas where we still have work to do. With all due respect, in this spirit, [[Dr. István Józsa: Very nice! Applause in the ranks of the MSZP.]] I propose that we evaluate next year's budget in this spirit. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the governing parties and the MSZP.]]
u2016-05-11-28	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, State Secretary Csaba Dömötör has applied for an extraordinary speech. [[Dr. István Józsa intervenes.]]
u2016-05-11-29	Allow me to respond briefly to what has been said. [[Ancient Novak: From a professional point of view!]] First and foremost, Jobbik's speech on home-building. To whom it favours and to whom it does not: we think that the home creation programme will help everyone, even those living in rural areas; it will provide them with substantial help because the single payment amounts will provide them with more specific support if we know that the property prices are lower for those living in rural areas. As far as rentals and owner-owned apartments are concerned, it is an interesting debate, but I would like to point out that the government insists on supporting the purchase of own-owned apartments, because the experience, the figures show that Hungarians insist on own-owned apartments, more than 90 percent own-owned apartments, historically, and Hungarians insist on this. As regards Timea Szabó's speech, I regret that he is only in the Chamber when he hears his own voice, and I am also sorry that when he talks about family support, he only mentions family allowances and has not said a word about the issue of family tax benefits. I raise this because the amount of family tax incentives will increase in 2017. I also note that the PM does not support the construction of the new hospital in Budapest in addition to the renovation of the existing ones. With regard to the Left's comment: I take note of the fact that a State Secretary is being pushed down here because he makes professional arguments; I conclude from this that in MSZP the profession and politics are mutually exclusive concepts. By the way, we could see the consequences of this. József Tobias, if I recall correctly, said that the current budget was a fraud or a failure. I would like to ask the rustling representatives of the Hungarian Socialist Party what they consider to be a fraud, what they consider to be a mistake. The 15 percent income tax? The one that the government reduced from 36 percent? Or the home creation programme for which more than 200 billion will be available and which will provide substantial help compared to the previous period, where only foreign exchange lending was the only solution that ended in mass debt? Or they find the pension increase to be a mistake. [[Dr. István Józsa: Small!]] which, by the way, is complemented by the reduction of VAT on basic, most important foods, which you have also proposed? [[12.20]] Or do you consider the teacher's wage increase to be a mistake? The further raise of law enforcement workers? [[Nándor Gúr: Few!]] [[Nándor Gúr: Few!]] Do you consider the career model for government officials to be flawed? Or do they consider it a mistake that there will be more than HUF 100 billion in health care? (Nándor Gúr: Few!) And does that mean that we can finally start the wage-raise programmes, the longer-term wage-raise programmes? Is that what you think is wrong? As far as macro numbers are concerned, you have expressed some concerns. I'd like to ask you where your concern was when the government debt was increased to 83 percent. Where was your concern when the EU, the European Commission and the IMF took credit, which Hungarians have been able to repay in many years - this has been successful in recent days. [[Nándor Gúr: You've been steering for six years, talk about that.]] Where was your concern when the budget deficit licked 10 percent from the bottom? Where was your concern when there was a year when the economy fell by 7 percent? [[Nándor Gúr: Have you heard of a global crisis here?]] Where was your concern when unemployment was 12 percent, compared to the current 6 percent? Where was your concern when the real value of pensions decreased by 6.4 percent in one year? [[Dr. István Józsa: You gave nothing back!]] By the way, the party president who spoke here a few minutes earlier bought Miklós Hagyó's villa in that year. So when you are planning a budget, we can say that thank you is not real, and all Hungarians could take ten steps back. On the other hand, the budget on the agenda is based on the fact that the economy is stable and is based on the ambition of all Hungarians to take a step forward. This is what tax cuts serve, and this is what the new home creation programme serves, and this is what wage increases serve. [[Interview from the ranks of the MSZP: Towards the ravine!]] I therefore believe that there is a budget on the agenda that can count on the support of all political forces regardless of party standing. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-05-11-30	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Two-minute speeches will follow; first I will give the floor to Mr Nándor Gúr, MSZP.
u2016-05-11-31	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I am sorry that Secretary of State Péter Banai Benő left, because I did not want to say behind his back that he lost his professionalism in front of me - but I think not only in front of me, but also in front of many of us. [[Dr. Péter Hoppál: Losing professionalism in front of the socialists? It's not a virtue...]] Look, when we talk about the budget, it's nothing but a budget for the benefit of friends and the regime - a budget for the benefit of your regime. I wonder how much Garancsi or Andy Vajna or Ripper will complain in 2017, so how much they will cry. [[Dr. Peter Hoppál: Wow, you're a professional.]] I don't think it's much, because this budget is helping them to live even better, as it is seen in its elements. Or are they and many others through them? This is not a budget for the benefit of people, the vast majority of people working. Look, when you take 15 billion forints out of the Start Work Programme? When resources are being cut in terms of social security? At a time when things promised six years ago, could I say a hundred such things, such as subsidies for severely disabled people, not in a moderate way? You're not gonna make a minimum wage? They don't give you employment for it? That's what they promised me back in the day. Then what are you talking about? Wages in Hungary have been frozen. Public employment? They didn't raise a penny! But the minimum wage for the Visegrád Four is also in the last place: one third less than in the other three countries. Our income situation is catastrophic. Look at the OECD's detection. Take a look, and then let's talk about this, not shooting at the blind. This is nothing but a hit-and-run budget! I don't even talk about pensions anymore, and then I will talk to my fellow Member, Mr Korózs. When the MNB says 2.4 percent inflation prognosis, are you doing a 0.9 percent increase? Aren't you ashamed? And you're the ones who're talking about helping people? You guys are freaks for the good of the people. They serve you and your friends. Mr. President, thank you very much.
u2016-05-11-32	Thank you, Congressman, notary. I'll give the floor to Congressman Márius Révész for two minutes, Fidesz.
u2016-05-11-33	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, It is difficult to find words after speaking with Nándor Gúr and our socialist colleagues and opposition representatives. I've been in Parliament for a long time, but this is the kind of budget that hasn't been before Parliament, by the way. [[Nándor Gúr: No!]] Because in this budget, people don't make small progress, they don't make small progress in society, they make big progress. [[Dr. István Józsa: Andy Vajna very much!]] The wages are frozen, says Nándor Gúr. He says this in a Parliament where, by the way, there has not been an example of a rise in real wages in Hungary above 5 per cent over the years, because that is what happened in 2014 and this has happened in 2015. In addition, I have to say that this is what will happen in 2016-2017. I must say that not only wages have increased, but also consumption, according to all statistics. The pensioners, if you count 2010 [[Nándor Gúr: Talk about 2.2 billion...]] The real value of pensions is KSH data... - you're lying, Congressman, look at the KSH. [[Bangóné Borbély Ildikó: We will also talk a lot about KSH!]] The real value of pensions, Mr President, has increased by 9.6% if we count 2010 as well. If we don't count 2010 only from 2011, Congressman, I know it hurts you very much that pensioners live better, then you can calculate or see from the KSH data that we have returned the 13th month's wages in real terms, which you have taken from them. [[Nándor Gúr: Where did you give it back?]] Look, Congresswoman, I'd be happy to send you the KSH data, but if I have to, I'll read it to you, if that's a problem. They're saying that society is falling apart. If you look at Eurostat data, the income differences in Hungary are far smaller than in the EU average. And only one or two figures from 2010: the proportion of people at risk of poverty, the proportion of households with children in 2015 was 35.4 percent, which decreased to 31.3 in 2014. Lack of a one-week stay in deprivation, KSH data, 66.3% in 2010 and 55 in 2014; lack of meat consumption 29.2 per cent in 2010; decrease to 23.7 per cent in 2014 [[The president's gonna ring the bell.]] lack of housing heating in 2010, 12,2 percent in 2014, [[The president's ringing again.]] 9.6 percent. Mr. President...
u2016-05-11-34	Thank you very much.
u2016-05-11-35	...you can yell, but in all respects society is better off. [[The president's ringing again.]] as it was in 2010. [[Interview from the ranks of the MSZP: Two minutes, sit down!]] Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-05-11-36	Thank you very much. With all due respect, my fellow Members, I would like to ask you to look at the screen once in a while. Time must be kept. We will continue with the speeches announced in advance. I give the floor to Congressman Kristóf Szatmáry, Fidesz Group.
u2016-05-11-37	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, I would try to go back a little bit from the heated debate over the last few minutes to a more specific analysis and interpretation of the budget submitted, and let me try to assess it from the point of view of small and medium-sized enterprises in Hungary, in particular, and to look at the budget submitted in 2017. If it were to be summarized with a sentence, what the budget before us means, it could mean for domestic businesses, then it is a predictable draft development, an increase that is primarily seen from this budget. But like the business plan of a given year, the country's budget cannot be assessed on its own, it is important to know the path the country has taken in recent years and the trends behind the figures before us. In a company, of course, it is not only an annual economic plan, but also an assessment of the market and competition, so the Hungarian budget, the numbers of the Hungarian economy, should also be included in the figures of the European Union and our wider country, the Central European region, and we can appreciate where we stand. As the most large international companies in economic life today, unfortunately, large international analysis takes the performance of a company for the 2008-9 global economic crisis and looks at its emissions compared to that, so I think that we can do no different if we talk about Hungary's 2017 budget to see how the domestic economic processes have taken place since the economic crisis. However, it must be seen that this may be justified, because Hungary not only experienced a European crisis in 2008-9, but also experienced a domestic crisis because of previous, we believe, very bad economic planning. As you know, the country has come a long way over the past six to eight years, in 2010, we were in a completely different economic policy situation, and I think that it is not enough to remind ourselves that in 2008-9 the country was mentioned in an economic sense, even in view of the potential of businesses, at a level with Greece. [[12.30]] This is only interesting because a few days ago, perhaps from the news broadcasts, we could see that Greece has continued to have a continuous economic crisis, because they have been on a different path, the path proposed by the International Monetary Fund. [[Dr. István Józsa: Only the situation was not!]] As a result, the Greeks now face the fact that they have new restrictions. I think that the debate with my Socialist colleague a few minutes ago is also a fundamental difference in perspective. They're used to the budget being a bad debate because it's about where they give less money. And they can't stop thinking like that. Now it can be said that there is a good debate on the budget, because we can talk about where we will give more money. It is a good debate, however, that a professional debate can be held on the fact that at a budget where opportunities are growing everywhere, of course, there can be a debate on the fact that more, less, but there is a fundamental difference from the previous period that we can have a good debate here in Parliament. If we look at the years behind us, we can see the development that is reflected in the budget, because the period 2010-11, after the crisis, was basically a period of consolidation. During this period, the stability and restructuring of the Hungarian economy and public finances began, followed by two years, 2012-13, which can be described as a period of economic stabilisation. The main features of this, I bring it here only because they are also before us at the hearing of the 2017 budget, and are an important defining and pervasive element of the budget characterisation: this is the lack of government debt below 3 per cent. The falling debt burden. This is the case, as in previous years, from 2012-13, that, by the way, state wealth is increasing, consolidation and stabilisation were served together to reduce the tax burden on labour gradually, to reduce the tax burden on small businesses and families, and to shift public burden towards taxation of consumption, banks and multinational enterprises. Based on the comprehensive package of measures introduced in 2012, ranging from programmes promoting entrepreneurship among young people to strengthening entrepreneurship among women, there have been many different programmes, it can be said that the 2017 budget also focuses on entrepreneurship. The crisis management ended in 2013 and, fortunately, the most or perhaps I can say, almost all sectors have started to grow. To achieve our common goals, of course, the achievement of economic growth above the European Union's average is a very important factor in guaranteeing economic convergence, since in this we can show the catch-up that, I think, is the 25-year goal of Hungarian politics. Approaching the budget from the perspective of small and medium-sized enterprises, I think it is important to say that the next year's budget, precisely its stability and predictability, is always crucial in the life and functioning of an enterprise. A number of budgets were made before 2011, which, unfortunately, did not provide these aspects for SMEs, but from an enterprise's point of view, I can say that it is of particular importance to ensure an adequate business environment for the State, to balance the budget, to ensure its predictability, and, as has been the case in the last few years, we see that this will also be the case in the 2017 budget. The civil government has been working to ensure this since its establishment, by means of measures such as the reduction of corporate tax from 19 to 10 per cent of the tax base of HUF 500 million, which reduced the burden of more than 200,000 companies with positive tax bases by tens of billions forints, by the way. These are basically domestic small and medium-sized enterprises, aren't they? During the period of economic stabilisation, reducing the budget deficit to below 3 per cent is a budgetary trend that is very important for entrepreneurs from a consumer point of view, as it leaves more money to people and leads to a stabilisation of the income situation of the population as a result of the continuous rise in real wages. This trend has a positive impact on consumption and consumption, of course, on the lives of businesses, by reducing the rate of personal income tax from 16 to 15 per cent and by extending life models in the public sector. Looking a little closer at last year's results, I think, from the perspective of the year 17 I can say that economic growth continues, and this economic growth, as has been said here in several speeches, can be interpreted from the point of view that there is a realistic, real approach to the European Union. In most cases, Hungarian economic growth is compared to German economic growth, and while, unfortunately, the growth of the Hungarian economy has been significantly lower than the growth of the German economy, in recent years and next year, based on the number of budgets planned, we have hope for a much higher growth, not only in Germany, but also in the European Union average, which gives both businesses and the country a new opportunity. I think that it would be possible to talk about the extra added value of domestic automotive capacities or EU funds next year, but perhaps more has already been said here. Overall, I would like to say that the primary aspect of the government and, in this respect, of the faction is that, from an entrepreneurial point of view, employers are able to create as many jobs as possible, as many as possible. This, of course, includes, in particular, small and medium-sized enterprises, which cannot do so without otherwise improving their competitiveness conditions, so improving the competitive position of small and medium-sized enterprises in the budget is very important for domestic employment as well. In short, if I were to try to describe the 2017 budget in the most translateable way in the life of businesses, I would recommend to my fellow Members a grouping of what are the three main aspects that allow a small enterprise to plan the economy of a given year on the basis of which an entrepreneur can prepare optimistically for the next year. One is the stability of the economic environment. I've already said a few words about that. A business is comfortable when it tries to stabilise its situation with a predictable, predictable budget that does not change during the year. Its costs can be calculated, no taxes will be raised during the year, no entitlements will be lost, and taxes will be reduced as far as possible. What I can say about the 2017 budget is that, in this respect, entrepreneurs will be given a safe, stable, predictable economic environment if Parliament adopts this budget. After all, a significant part of tax legislation does not change, or even if it changes, in a positive way, in order to improve their competitiveness. What is the second aspect that, in summary, is important for domestic businesses, in addition to making the economic environment as optimal as possible? To have sufficient resources to finance their company, they can plan their development. If I want to compare the potential for funding from current or next year's macroeconomic developments, I think that the country has made a huge step forward, I think that Hungary's small and medium-sized enterprises are in a very good position from the source, either through a reduction in the central bank base rate or through the transformation of the financial system itself. It can therefore be said that businesses have at their disposal sufficient resources of low interest for operation and development. [[12.40]] By the way, if I add to this a very wide range of EU funds, which will be available this year and next year, I think that all the improvements that have been left in the account in recent years can be taken out by entrepreneurs, as they will certainly be possible from a source. But, of course, in addition to making the economic environment a good environment, second, what to produce products and services from, the most important, the most important aspect for domestic businesses is to have someone to sell the products to, because even though we produce, we are optimistic about the future, if there is no one to buy our products and services, then the product, the service that no one can benefit from will remain in storage. What can be said from that point of view? I believe that the increase in consumption, on the basis of the measures taken by the budget that we have just submitted - we are talking about residential consumption - is certainly an optimism. I think that the Hungarian economy, the Hungarian businesses, is in an exceptionally positive time frame, because now, I think, thirty months ago, the process of increasing domestic consumption is unstoppable. It is this internal consumption that can really boost domestic businesses, and I think that the expansion of internal consumption, the VAT cuts in the budget, wage increases programmes and family tax incentives will continue to provide an adequate source. I think - I wouldn't want to talk about export opportunities in particular now, because this is also important, but not part of the budget - if this budget provides the basis for an increase in consumption in Hungary at a rate similar to that in the last few ten months in Hungary, then this budget, as I said, could be a budget for predictable construction, predictable growth, and we therefore strongly recommend adopting it. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-05-11-38	Thank you, Congressman Satmary. The next announced speaker was Mr Csaba Tóth, Hungarian Socialist Party. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2016-05-11-39	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, According to the general justification of the submitted bill, civil organisation is the main aspect of the 2017 budget, and they want every Hungarian person to take a step forward. The 2017 budget will be a budget for tax cuts and home creation, according to the government. Based on the prognosis, the overall revenue of general government is slightly higher in 2017 compared to the previous year compared to GDP, including tax and contribution revenues and even more EU subsidies used in public finances could increase faster than GDP. Among the expenditures, the share of employee income, interest expenditure and social benefits in relation to GDP may be reduced. These are the goals - and now let's look at the facts! According to the analyses, the 2017 budget will be an election budget: a surplus will be devoted to education, health and social security, as well as welfare expenditure, with a value of HUF 592 billion. However, appearances are deceiving: because when you look at the actual revenue, expenditure and absence of the 2015 budget, it immediately turns out that the year of abundance will not come next year. Overall, the government does not even plan as much expenditure as it spent two years ago. As far as the most important economic policy success indicator is concerned, everything is not all right there either. The government has designed the bill in such a way that, while maintaining a deficit that remains well below 3 per cent of GDP, ensuring a further reduction in public debt, the budget supports economic growth and pursues economic and social policy priorities. The general government deficit has been below 3 per cent since 2011, but this is only true according to EU accounts. In view of the actual revenues and expenditures, last year the deficit was 3.6 percent of GDP, and it will be close to this next year. At first sight, these conditions are met by next year's budget, as while the deficit was above 5.5 percent in 2011, from 2012 to last year, an average deficit of 2.3 percent was met. In 2015, the deficit was only 2 percent and 2 percent was planned for this year as well. However, the deficit target for 2017 is 2.4 percent, which is 0.4 percentage points higher than in 2015. The 3.1 percent economic growth forecasted for 2016-17 could amount to HUF 460 billion. This margin of manoeuvre is well exploited by the government, but the link between the cash flow gap and the EU deficit is not exactly addressed in the draft. In a previous statement by the Minister for Economic Affairs, he did not conceal that they did not want to go as in 2002, when the economy was in a good position, but the voters did not feel this, and on this basis Fidesz lost an election. They now wish to prevent this with targeted VAT reductions, limited wage increases, and support for the creation of homes for a few. Public expenditure represents a relatively high value, roughly half of GDP, especially compared to Hungary's relatively small revenue. Government debt and relatively high expenditure are the reasons why there is little room for manoeuvre to assess the financial risks of increased spending caused by ageing society in a realistic way. The government wants to reduce spending by increasing the wages of civil servants while at the same time reducing social expenditure. A relatively large part of the expenditure is intended to finance general public services; this can be explained by the fact that most of the workforce is active in the public sector. On the other hand, there is a very small proportion of healthcare expenditure, which also causes low health levels and emigration of health workers. Expenditure on education is also extremely low. In recent decades, the restructuring of the economy has changed labour market needs as regards the level of education. By now, it is more technological knowledge that has come to the fore and that has been the most good job opportunity. At the same time, the education system did not respond sufficiently: graduates are not able to find easy jobs; the number of applications for higher education has increased, but the value of diplomas has decreased; employment growth is low, which usually results in a large number of career leavers. Changes in the education system do not solve low employment rates and high unemployment, but demand for highly skilled workers will increase in the future. It should also be remembered that an ageing society will increase the need for young people who can achieve high incomes, thus maintaining a social balance. These additional resources do not base the quality change in education that civilian movements and trade unions have been fighting for in recent months. A 12 per cent increase in resources is projected in the field of health, which represents a minimal increase in GDP. If you look at it from the expenditure side, there is actually a decrease in the proportion of resources spent in this area. In 2016, 9.5 percent of expenditure is planned to go to health care, with only 9.4 percent from 2017. The preventive-healing expenditure will increase to 2.7 percent of GDP next year, which will be complemented by a budget of 313 billion pharmaceutical subsidies, which represents a reduction compared to 326.2 billion this year. According to previous reports, the government has renounced the construction of the new hospital in the capital, yet 4 billion in the 2017 budget has been allocated for this purpose. There will be no substantial increase in social benefits and pensions. The budget and the convergence programme show that next year the change in net average earnings will be less than planned for this year, with 5.6 percent planned for 2016 and 5.1 percent planned for next year. In the longer term, much of the expenditure will be spent by an ageing society, which is at a much more advanced stage in Hungary than in other countries. The population peaked in 1981, the fertility rate is one of the lowest in Europe, so it is expected that the population will fall to around 9 million in the vicinity of 2060. [[12.50]] The middle-aged base has been stable so far, but it will soon be one of the lowest rates compared to the overall population in Europe, which will lead to the worst indicator for older dependency. If the income catch-up is completely gone, we will not talk about immigration, but about the emigration of highly skilled workers. All in all, the need to pay for an ageing society will lead to a decline in the labour force. Based on changes in the tax law, a substantial help for families will be the reduction of the general sales tax on certain products. One of the biggest increases in budget expenditure is housing subsidies. Next year, it will be HUF 211 billion due to the CSOK, but this will only affect a small part of society and therefore will not have a general impact on families. Next year's budget will not bring significant improvement in living standards for this reason. Based on the analysis of the expenditure side, the Hungarian State is preparing to play an extremely active role in 2017, as it plans to spend HUF 18 186 billion against HUF 15 956 billion planned for this year. With this additional expenditure of HUF 2230 billion and an increase in expenditure, the total expenditure side of public finances reaches 48.8 percent of the planned GDP. Based on the detailed functional breakdown of expenditure, it is clear which areas will be important to the government in 2017. The amount spent to perform economic functions will increase from HUF 2788 billion to HUF 3860 billion with an increase of 38 per cent. You can spend significantly more on the operation of the state itself, by 12%, i.e. HUF 340 billion, to HUF 3133 billion. The only decreasing item is the 7 per cent reduction to be paid after the management of the public debt, because the State has to pay an increasing amount of interest. As a result of the interest rate decrease, the debt will have to be paid more than HUF 500 billion less than in 2015. It should be mentioned here that according to György Matolcsy, the most important hidden source of the growth turn of his success in recent years was the weakening of the exchange rate of the forint. According to the president of the MNB, a 10-percent forint depreciation can increase the level of Hungarian GDP by 0.5-0.8 percent. As a result, they artificially weakened the forint by about 20 percent compared to the previous exchange rate, resulting in a heavy burden on former households in foreign currency, which has often put hundreds of thousands of families in a hopeless situation. The EU's support for economic growth and government investment will continue next year. The state spends nearly 1165 billion in 2017 on infrastructure development, transport, sports facilities, which exceeds 3 percent of GDP. The Ministry of National Development's spending best reflects election spending. The Ministry can spend 321.7 billion more. For the priority road projects, HUF 279 billion is HUF 119 billion higher than this year's framework. Out of 10 billion people will start preparing for the reconstruction of the Budapest-Belgrád railway line, which promises to be the country's most wasteful railway investment, and its validity is questionable. For the capital transport investments 9.1 billion, Hungaroring Zrt. 13.1 billion for support, in addition to the ten billion that have been spent so far, the stadium development programme will continue to be worth 64.6 billion forints. Next year, with the elections approaching, the government can spend 153 billion forints on the modern city program. The 27 percent VAT is the highest among OECD Member States, but the efficiency of tax collection is well below the expected level, thanks to tax evasion. According to the Commission's calculations, taxation is 24 percent, which is 9 percentage points higher than the EU average. In other words, the same revenue would be available by introducing a tax rate of 19 per cent. The government supports VAT collection by taking anti-fraud measures, in particular by making online registers mandatory. This had already had an impact, with an increase of 0.6 percentage points in VAT revenue to GDP. The government plans to extend this obligation to other services. Making VAT collection more efficient should cover a wide spectrum, given that in the two thousand years the grey economy accounted for 10-17 percent of the total economy, and this figure has probably not decreased since then. The expansion of business investment can improve productivity growth and broaden sales opportunities on the external market. Before the economic crisis, there was a strong link between economic activity and business investment. There is a need for further growth in this area. Business predictability needs to be improved and the tax burden on businesses reduced. In the past, the sources of funding have also dried up, thanks to the tightening of lending conditions in the banking sector. This mainly affected the domestic SME sector, as the multinationals continued to benefit from the services provided by the international financial market. The Growth Fund has resulted in some new investments, but in many cases it has been used to repay existing loans with worse conditions. Other sources of funding do not play a significant role in Hungary. Developing capital markets could be a new source of funding, but this is a slow process that requires transparency, reliability, comparability of information and proper management of financial stability problems. At the same time, investor confidence must be strengthened, with a regulatory framework that will increase the competitiveness of the sector. Inflows of capital account for half of the business investment, but it has to be seen that this is mainly due to the large German companies involved in the automotive industry. The effect of this is that Hungary has become a sector dependent on this issue. A year ago, during the budgetary debate, I also said what country-specific proposals the European Commission has put forward for Hungary. Among other things, the Recommendation drew the government's attention to taking action to restore normal lending to the real economy, remove barriers to market-based portfolio cleaning and significantly reduce the risks associated with the obligation of increased public ownership in the banking sector. For years, it has been a recurring proposal to reduce distortions in sectoral special taxes, to remove unjustified barriers to entry in the service sector, including the retail sector, to reduce the tax wedge on low-income workers, to shift the tax burden to less distorting areas for growth; to continue the fight against tax fraud, to further develop the framework for combating corruption; to strengthen the structures of the public procurement system that encourage competition and promote transparency, which, given the experience of domestic procurement procedures, is particularly important. No progress has been made in these areas since then, nor does this year's budget take into account the recommendations made. Overall, next year's budget is counting on very optimistic numbers. However, by spending hundreds of billions on unnecessary investment, structurally weak economic growth will be significantly reduced in subsequent years. Thus, sustainable growth is not a foundation, and the 3.1 percent increase planned for 2017 may not be achieved. It is clear that with this budget, they are preparing for the elections in 2018. The 2017 budget bill cannot be supported by the MSZP fraction because of what has been said. Thank you for your attention.
u2016-05-11-40	Thank you very much, Congressman. The next announced speaker was Mr Firtl Mátyás, Member of the Christian Democratic People's Party.
u2016-05-11-41	Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, On the 2017 draft budget, we can say that it is a budget for tax reductions and home creation. This statement has a weight because it is worth recalling what we said a year ago about the 2016 budget. [[Dr. János Latorcai, vice-president of the Parliament, takes the chair.]] 2016 will be a year of tax reduction, we said a year ago, as we also said that Hungarian families can move forward again. Yes, ladies and gentlemen, 2016 has been a budget for tax cuts, home creation and family support. By 2017, the government, continuing to strengthen Hungary, submitted again a budget to support tax reductions and home creation. This fact of continuity also confirms the path Hungary has chosen. [[13.00]] That we are on the right path when we chose the economic policy path of creating homes and supporting families with the authority of the large majority of Hungarian people. This means security, predictability, planning for families, economic operators, workers, municipalities, municipalities, the economy, society in almost all areas and all segments. Ladies and gentlemen, Speaking of the continuity of successive budgets, we must also point out that the starting point for the economic and financial processes recorded in the budget was the year 2010 when Hungary was practically bankrupt. I am just reminding my fellow Members that the USD 14 billion of IMF loans taken up by left-wing governments had to be managed by the Orbán government that took office, as well as the GDP figures that threatened the disaster, income data, skyrocketing bills, disappointing employment figures, as it stood on the brink of collapse in all segments of the Hungarian economy. Therefore, our economic policy, which provided such security and predictability, planning, which was launched and consistently carried out in 2010, shows a positive turnaround, the direction in which the government's economic policy is designed not only to serve the public good, families, home creation and people in the first place, but also to be effective. As a result of this effectiveness, the fiscal policy of tax reduction and home creation can be continued in 17 years. Ladies and gentlemen, In the result of the period behind us, in the fact that the economy could be on a growing path, that our struggle against sovereign debt was successful, that we repaid the IMF loan, that Hungarian reforms are working and that the Hungarian road is successful, I am convinced that the principles, the implementation of values and the transposition into practice are largely included in Hungary's achievements since 2010. Dear House, The Christian world view is positive for the basic categories of the economy, it considers private property, profit, interest, but material well-being to be associated with it, in an approach that focuses on man, values, human achievement, taking into account moral considerations. This approach brings people closer to clarifying and solving the current problems, building a more human, community, social and environmentally sustainable world. CHAPTER XXIII Pope John, following his predecessors as well as Aristotle and St. Thomas of Aquinas, states: economic policy, finance, in fact, are instruments for achieving other moral goals, and as such are valuable, material prosperity is one of the real values. Economic factors are not, in themselves, goals, but instruments that promote the creation of other values; ultimately, they serve the common good, that is to say, man, to complete it. If we now look at our budget of 17 from this point of view, then we can say that in its ideality and in its instruments, the budget which assumes a stable financial background and a predictable legal order can be implemented in practice. It shall apply the principles set out above. This is a guarantee of continued development for the country, people and families, and that everyone can move forward in their own territory. Dear House, The general good, the basic function of the 17th budget for ascension, and its value-based nature, are also ensured by an important legislative compliance, which I consider necessary by the KDNP. The decisive criterion of value-basedness is the fact that our Fundamental Law is the basis of all our laws, including the fiscal law. Therefore, the principles and ideality, as well as the practice set out in the Fundamental Law, are reflected in both the numbers and effects of the Finance Act. I also think it is important to mention this because in the days we remembered the five-year anniversary of the adoption of our Fundamental Law, so one of the key elements of this unbroken continuity since 2010 is what is the idea and purpose set out in the Fundamental Law. What's that got to do with the budget debate? - you can ask. By the fact that the Fundamental Law sees long horizons and sets out the foundations for Hungarians to achieve their goals, but this is the path indicated by the milestones of the annual budgets, because the annual budgets are the ones that take us forward one step at a time. Secondly, operating on the basis of Christian values for Europe, in its present state of rabid state, threatened with virtual occupation, would ensure the strengthening that could mean its survival. Thus, for us Hungarians, who are almost in the heart of Europe threatened by a flood of people, it is not indifferent to our future that strong families, strong communities, and strong settlements are the task of building the future, to what extent there is a source, to what extent we can count on resources and strengthening them. Ladies and gentlemen, Specific professional opinions and findings are also valid for the budget for the year 17 in which continuity, i.e. planning and predictability, are reflected, not in principle, but in professional terms. Thus, the SAO concludes that the audited revenue of the direct revenue and expenditure chapter of the budget is overall well-founded, substantiated and does not pose any risk. In its opinion to Parliament, the SAO concluded that the preparation, drawing up, structure and content of the bill comply with the relevant legal requirements. In the bill, there is a new element to increase budgetary transparency, a triple grouping of revenue and expenditure, and the SAO points out in its opinion. Dear House, According to the Stability Act, our 2016 debt ratio, 73.5 per cent of GDP, our 17th debt index, 71,9 per cent of GDP, and the developments presented in the draft bill are in line with the expected economic and budgetary processes for 2016 and 17th year, so the debt rule of the Fundamental Law is fulfilled. The planned and expected reduction in the debt ratio also meets the European Union's requirement for sovereign debt. The revenue and expenditure appropriations are essentially in line with the macroeconomic forecast, the ex ante performance in 2015, the expected processes for the year 16 and the previous and planned government measures. The Council considered the planning of tax revenues to be realistic, while the forecasting of other revenue estimates to be conservative. For expenditure appropriations, he pointed out that they could be kept at slightly higher inflation rates. On the basis of the macroeconomic forecast and the number of budgetary appropriations, the Council concluded that the deficit target of 2.4 per cent, calculated according to the European Union methodology, was in line with the economic processes presented in the draft budget bill and the planned revenue and expenditure appropriations. The general government deficit target is in line with the corrective arm of the European Union's fiscal rules and the Stability Act. The Council positively assessed that the budget is separate from current expenditure, including operational, use and EU development, which helps to ensure transparency of processes, and to separate expenditure on long-term growth from current expenditure. Ladies and gentlemen, After a detailed and thorough presentation of the draft budget has been made on several occasions, I would like to briefly mention some of the important elements of the '17 budget that support families and create homes, which are supported by the KDNP as the main objectives, and we will make every effort to make them successful. [[13.10]] Thus, one of the main elements of the budget is the tax reduction in terms of continuity. By reducing the tax burden, the key of Sjai is the lowest in Europe, with the reduction of VAT on food, a Hungarian family can have an average of 35-40 thousand HUF more money. The government will further increase the support of families raising children. The family tax allowance increases to HUF 15,000 per child for families with two children. Young married people still get tax breaks. Tax reductions to help families can make a significant contribution to halting negative demographic trends. The OECD comparison has already been made here, but I would like to say that Hungary is at the average OECD level, so we are also spending more on supporting families than many other OECD Member States. 2017 will also be the year of home creation. According to the government's view, and in our view, the existence of a home is one of the most important preconditions for civilisation. For this reason, next year's budget will spend HUF 211 billion to support the creation of homes for Hungarian families. The most important elements of this are the family housing discount that can be used to buy new and used apartments, the CSOK, the state-supported preferential loan, and the VAT reduction. The government continues to support house savings, and in 17 national home-building communities will already work. The goal is to give every Hungarian person their own apartment or house at an affordable price. The career plans will continue in 17 and the salaries of law enforcement workers, higher education workers and educators will continue to increase. For government officials, a new career program is launched. In addition, the real value of pensions will be preserved in 17 of our previous commitment. There will be significant additional resources in the health and social field next year. We want to ensure that the quality of care is further improved, and health care workers are honoured for their day-to-day work. Under a multi-annual programme, wage management for healthcare workers may continue. The budget of 17 also provides additional resources for public education and the cultural sphere. The draft budget for next year will provide additional resources for all disciplines. There are HUF 270 billion for education, HUF 150 billion for health care, HUF 150 billion for social security and welfare, HUF 66 billion for cultural activities and HUF 22 billion for sport and leisure sectors in 2017. Law enforcement can expect a HUF 114 billion higher budget for the local government sector, HUF 6 billion higher. You can get 23 billion forints for justice and 10 billion forints for foreign affairs in the future. In addition to the HUF 2240 billion EU resource use, it plans an additional HUF 1600 billion for the 2017 budget developments. In addition, the government will take all necessary measures to protect the country from external threats. To this end, the budget provided the defence with HUF 51 billion more money. Ladies and gentlemen, The above evidence shows that everyone can really move forward with the 2017 budget. If we compared the basic figures and lines of the draft budget by chapter to the principles set out in our Fundamental Law, we could find budgetary aspects in almost all areas, including family support, tax policy, home creation, the protection of people in need, economic development, culture or even the promotion of nationalities, support for foreign Hungarians, NGOs, municipalities, modern city programmes or even sports. In such a comparison, the fact that the creation of our Fundamental Law was of historical importance in the way that it defined and designated the path of the nation's development, based on Christian values, which we believe to be our only possibility, and the only chance of our development. It is our duty and responsibility to respect it, to use its opportunities, to improve it for the benefit of the common good. It is therefore a good and solid basis for a budget based on committed national policy to strengthen families and promote economic growth. In the light of all of this, on behalf of the KDNP, I believe that the country, the nation's future, and its development path should continue to be supported by a draft budget, which I call with great respect for from my fellow Members. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2016-05-11-42	Thank you very much, Congressman. Welcome, fellow Members. The next speaker was Mrs Dóra Dúró from the Jobbik Group. Here you go.
u2016-05-11-43	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Bence Rétvári, State Secretary of the EMMI announced in March that the KLIK would cease to exist and a whole new institutional system would be created, and then János Lázár denied all this in the government briefing, and said that not only will the KLIK cease to exist, but his task will be expanded. In the past period, in the last government cycle, one of the biggest changes in education has undoubtedly been that schools have been put under state reserve and some of them have remained in municipal operation. János Lázár indicated on the government briefing as one of the major problems of the education system that this mixed system simply does not work, so that the authorities must also take away the operation according to his logic, he announced, and the KLIK must do so. However, János Lázár did not mention when the government planned that local governments would no longer be operators of schools, and it would be the responsibility of the KLIK to do so. In addition to the professional aspects of this, I do not want to talk about it now in the context of the budgetary debate, this is a very important statement, and it is also very important from the point of view of how KLIK's financing will be affected, as the funds invested in the management of the municipalities will have to be published during the CLIK, or the CLIK will have to take responsibility for these tasks. If János Lázár is elegant, he will not make a promise for the next government cycle, so it may be possible that KLIK will take over this task from September 2017 or January 2018. When we look at the importance of a specific area of expertise for a government, we usually take into account the expenditure related to GDP, as it is obviously unfair to compare a German and a Hungarian economy. However, if we ask the question of how important the sector is for the government, the institutional system where our children spend most of their time, then it is worth comparing spending on GDP for education. International data are available in this respect, and Eurostat and the OECD also provide data on a regular basis. If we look at this, Hungary is in a very bad situation. Practically since 2004, with the exception of one year, Hungary's GDP-related expenditure on education and regional comparison has been reduced even less than in the neighbouring countries. Although I would not consider it unfair to compare it with Western European countries here, because, as I said, everyone, managing their own resources shows how important education is to him, but in the Czech Republic, Poland and Slovakia, they have spent more on education in recent years, continuously since 2004, than in Hungary. It was in the mid-2000s that we were able to catch up a little bit, even approaching the European Union average, but since then it has not been possible to do so because of the continuous decline. As compared to the first Orbán government, if we look at the data, we can see that in each year of the first Orbán government, the state spent more on education in proportion to GDP than it did after 2010, i.e. in the case of the second and third Orbán governments. Thus, spending more on education in 2017 than in 2016 is planned to do in 2016 so that it stands in its place in itself, but if we take into account a long-term trend and how the proportion of resources spent on education has changed from 2004 onwards, and how this government considers education to be important compared to the period between 98 and 2002, then we can see a much sadder picture of this. [[13.20]] I also have to say about the pedagogical career, which also provides a significant share of educational items in public education. In 2013, when this was introduced, Minister Zoltán Balog said that the wages of an average educator increase by 34 percent compared to the previous system. If we look at how much an average salary has lost in comparison to the increase in teacher wages before the introduction in September 2013, as Minister talked about it in 2013, then we can see that this increase in real value, calculated solely by the government and the HCSO, amounted to 2.8 percent. And then, in 2013, they were able to secure 60% of the planned increase by then, and then in September of each year, the remaining 10-10 percent of teachers' wages increase. Moreover, it was also promised that every year the wages of teachers would rise on a minimum wage in January, thus guaranteeing their integrity. Then, when this was actually done to increase the minimum wage in January, this provision was abolished, and now the wages of teachers are no longer tied to the minimum wage. The last such 10 percentage points increase is expected to take place in September 2017, but is now reportedly differentiated. This is rejected by both the trade unions and, by the way, the National Pedagogist Faculty, protesting against this. The emergence of differentiation, whether necessary in a wage raising system or in a career model, is appropriate, but this should not be done by such means, but should be done on the basis of clear, clear and predictable criteria, as the allowances for example allow, in many other ways, in professional legislative proposals. If we say a few words about higher education, then we see that if we compare it with one year, one year earlier, then we see a real increase here too. But if we look at a long-term trend, even from 2010 onwards, we can see that there has been a decrease in higher education expenditure every year. And if we look back to previous years, the early 2000s, say, the 2003 data, then we see that in 2003 the amount spent on higher education was HUF 210 billion in the budget, the HUF 240 billion planned for 2017. Of course, 30 billion more than that, but if you take into account the value-proofness here, you can see that it corresponds to only 144 billion forints at that level. It is important not only to talk about education, but also to consider the impact of education spending on society as a whole, because this is the place where our children spend the most time, as I mentioned, but also because it is the Hungarian economy and the lives of Hungarian people, the lives of the growing generations, that is what determines most. A lot of studies have been carried out earlier on how much government expenditure determines, in itself, government expenditure on education, how children will pay, their life potential, their quality of life, but they have recently published a similar survey, which states that if we were to raise expenditure to the level of GDP in 2008, this could increase the average earnings in Hungary by 14 percent in the long term, so even such an increase would provide a 14 percent opportunity in terms of average earnings in the long term. The Hungarian education system is also famous for its inability to reduce differences in international comparison. In Hungary, what kind of family environment a child is born in is defined in the long term, almost categorizing him in the life that his parents live. This would be very important to change, for example with catching-up programmes, if these were to be resolved and implemented effectively professionally. This was, without doubt, one of the reasons for the state's reservation to reduce the differences. At the same time, the study of the Institute for Education and Development, a background institution of the Ministry, revealed that the KLIK could not reduce the differences in this form, and indeed, since the establishment of the KLIK, it has not been able to make any substantial progress in this respect since 2013. Social selection remains present, and if the education system, if professional changes do not follow and state reservations are strengthened, the powers of the KLIK will be further expanded, no matter what additional educational resources are provided, they will not be able to deliver the results needed for social justice. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2016-05-11-44	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Member István Németh Szilárd has applied to speak from the Fidesz Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2016-05-11-45	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, In the last five hours, we have heard the virtues of the 2017 budget and we have heard criticisms about it. I would also like to define in general and explain why I personally support the budget for 2017 by the Fidesz-KDNP fraction, and why we also ask our fellow Members from the opposition to think well that they can negotiate here in Parliament in support of our 2017 budget. Well, the 2017 Hungarian budget sets itself two very important goals. One of them, we have heard several times that everyone, every Hungarian citizen, can take a step forward with the help of the budget in 2017. In such a way that this budget does not suffer, this budget must not be out of operation. This dual objective will be achieved by the numbers in the budget and by the tasks assigned to it, I think they will be met in a high degree. It is very important that the budget was born in an economic philosophy, a social philosophy that focuses on the economy's work-based society, working with workers, helps people from work, supports work, increases in employment and a significant reduction in unemployment, although we are already in Hungary, where we are practically speaking of the fact that only those who cannot or do not want to work are not working. [[Ildikó Bangóné Borbély: We are so happy about this!]] It places families at the center of the society, families who take on children [[Bangóné Borbély Ildikó: What about those who can't?]] and who can therefore receive assistance through the budget, which will, among other things, contribute to the creation of homes for these families. [[Ildikó Bangóné Borbély: Responsible, Congressman!]] The budget also defines very important instruments, we have heard from the Minister. One of these instruments is the tax reduction, which the Fidesz-KDNP government has been constantly taking over since 2010, and this is now appearing in the reduction of personal income tax, which has long-term even more serious goals, and is also reflected in the VAT reduction. And the numbers speak for themselves, because we are counting on a 2.4 percent deficit, which has now been below 3 percent for many years, since 2012, which the country otherwise undertook in 2004, at the time when the accession treaty was signed, but until 2010, socialist governments, none of the social liberal governments, were able to deliver or even fed falsified figures from the budget to Brussels. We are looking at inflation of 0.9 percent, which I think would benefit a lot of countries. In addition to significant wage and pension increases, this 0.9 percent inflation ensures that wages and pensions are increased in real terms either through career models, career plans or through sectoral wage increases. This ensures that retail consumption increases in Hungary. [[13.30]] And there is also a very important number, the 3.1 percent economic growth, coupled with the 1.6 percent debt reduction, which means that in 2017 we do not even have to count on a 72 percent debt ratio, because this will be the country's debt. Well, I think this is encouraging enough for everyone, but I think it is worth looking at the Hungarian budget in other ways, because in a changed world, we are living in a changed situation if we look at Europe or even the whole globe. Just yesterday, the conference started in New York within the United Nations, which is about the new challenges of peace and security, and on which Minister for Foreign Affairs Péter Szijjártó said that Hungary believes that the most serious threat to the world is the growing network of terrorist organisations, and that in this matrix, in this growing network of terrorist organisations, Hungary must define its security policy and also define the resources related to security policy. But if we look back a little bit more - Paris, Bataclan, Brussels, or New Year's Eve in Cologne, or the Munich stabbing or the Viennese killer who beat an older woman with an iron tube - or if we only read the latest news about the security conditions of the Cannes Film Festival, where the French Minister of Interior visited Bernard Cazeneuve personally, this has not been the case in the history of the Cannes Film Festival, that the Minister of Interior is personally visiting whether the security preparations for hundreds of policemen, hundreds of armed security guards, seven marine rescues, bomb squads have been made, so I think we should pay attention to this in any way, and examine whether Hungary is prepared for this new situation in 2017 to provide adequate budgetary resources to ensure the sovereignty of the country, the security of Hungarian people, the security of the Hungarian people, and the security of the European way, so I think that we should also pay attention to this in every way, and that we should be able to protect Hungarian people, and to ensure the security of our country, and the security of Hungarian life, that we are able to ensure that we are able to protect the security of Hungarian people in any way. After the bombing in Brussels, Prime Minister Viktor Orbán defined the process of preparation as follows: we need to implement technological developments; I asked for a presentation on what developments we had planned, primarily information gathering developments, and delayed because of the budgetary situation in the previous years; all these should be taken out and closed up to the ranks of secret service countries with the best technical skills; we will buy technology, we will hold training and education. Now let's see how this goes in the budget. I think that, for the first time in years, Hungarian services will be given the opportunity to make very significant improvements, to increase their numbers and to obtain very significant information, with which they can make a clear contribution to the change of circumstances, to the prevention of the terrorist threat, and to the prevention of terrorist acts that I mentioned earlier. If you look at TEK's budget, the 2017 budget will allow you to expand your staff to 372 people, further expand the law enforcement career model, raise your wages by 5%, and improve your anti-terrorist capacity, with a budget of almost HUF 20 billion for the Counter-Terrorism Centre, which is HUF 7.5 billion more than the 2016 budget. In the case of the Constitutional Protection Office, the Counterintelligence Office, which plays a very important role in illegal or legal immigration, since it is involved as a administrative authority in the elimination of security risks, a new establishment, a unified establishment will be established, which will help the working conditions and the conditions under which the task is carried out and make it European, but they will also be involved in the 5% increase in salaries in the framework of the law enforcement career model. Plus their budget is up by HUF 9 billion, this budget will be almost 17 billion. In the case of the National Security Service, which is responsible for providing the secret services - let us put it simply - with a technical service, we can expect a 6 billion-dollar development and a 110-person increase in staff and the possibility of taking technical measures against terrorism. Or here is the new, now, I think, with five-party co-thinking, cooperation, support organization, the Tibet, which takes the place of the Sebek group in the fight against organised crime - a surplus of 1.4 billion here too. But we have decided, with Commission President Lajos Kósa - he is the head of the other commission - to take him in and recommend to Parliament that the Military National Security Service have access to additional resources. These are two very important areas: the fight against illegal migration, the more precise, precise, professional performance of border surveillance tasks and, of course, the elimination of terrorist acts and terrorists: drone technology and satellite space communications monitoring are proposed to raise a few hundred million HUF budget at the Military National Security Service. Well, if we look at the 2017 Hungarian budget, the country's budget, then it is clear that these amounts, these very significant amounts - there are more than double the amount of money that can be spent - clearly guarantee the sovereignty of Hungary, the security of Hungarian people, the maintenance of public order, public security and the reduction of the risk of terrorism. That is why I ask once again, as I asked at the beginning of my speech, all my fellow Members to support the 2017 budget. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-05-11-46	Thank you very much, Congressman. The next speaker was Ms Zsuzsanna Szelényi, of the independent. Here you go, Congresswoman.
u2016-05-11-47	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, In my view, the most serious problem in Hungary today is that people do not see the future. Young and old, women and men, millions are afraid of tomorrow - and rightly so. If people don't believe in the future, there's really no future there. Szilárd Németh spoke for a long time about the terrible dangers in Western European cities today, but many Hungarians still want to go to Vienna, Berlin, London, because they think there is a better life there than there is in Hungary. We can't let that happen. I have therefore also examined the 2017 budget in terms of how it will help this country to have a future; can this budget help Hungary to be stable and balanced tomorrow; does the budget help the Hungarian economy to develop dynamically and in a sustainable way, as the Head of the SAO has requested; does the budget support learning, development, quality and real labour training, further training, the country's catching up with the developed West? Whether the budget will help Hungary to be a country where our children have a future. I must say that this budget does not correspond to these aspects of the investigation. If, say, we look at it from the point of view of a careful parent, like a family budget, then it can be said that this current budget is not for the future. [[13.40]] We have a budget for the moment ahead, not a budget for tomorrow's security. One of the most typical features of this budget is immeasurable waste. While the areas underlying tomorrow's development - learning, health, innovation, labour market - are barely spent, the government is spending huge money on unacceptable purposes, above all on its own. It maintains hundreds of deputy undersecretaries, whose performance we can't get anywhere. Hundreds of billions of dollars of investment is being made to the head of the government, the Prime Minister, in the Castle; hundreds of billions of Liget projects to which the trees of the City Park are being cut. The revenues of the Hungarian National Bank are being stolen in private hands. And they will continue to build an encrypted, severely, deeply flawed nuclear power plant project that will produce expensive, unacceptablely expensive and unsellable electricity for our grandchildren. In this budget there is HUF 1000 billion, which serves no good purpose. Dear Parliament, The thousands of billion-dollar European Union support that Hungary receives will allow Hungary to have economic growth that would otherwise not be at all without this support; which will generate the revenue for the budget from which the government can think at all. Overall, the positions of the Hungarian budget are acceptable - today. However, first of all, we have to look at whether we manage properly with this and tomorrow. As a woman, as a responsible parent, I consider this as a basic condition: what does the budget do for tomorrow? Responsible parents strive to ensure that their families, in our case the country, are not exposed to any future crisis and that their children have a promising future. Let me give you a few examples of what the government is not responsible for. I have already mentioned that Magyar Nemzeti Bank's revenues must, above all, and only be used according to the letter of the law to reduce public debt. Nevertheless, Hungarian government debt does not decrease at all. Sectoral criminal taxes continue to be huge, which cripple the economy, the dynamics of the economy. Entrepreneurship is too high. If we want the country to move forward, then we must not run government investments, but promote private investment in Hungary. And there's no such thing at all. This budget is unacceptable, and in Hungary, depending on the budget, independently, the robbery economy is stable. This is the biggest barrier to Hungarian economic development. Let's see what the 1000 billion forints that can be transferred from the budget should do if not for government greed. First of all, it should be allocated to expenditure that will serve tomorrow: family daycare, kindergartens, schools, universities, innovation, research, health development. Basically, you have to spend this money on people. There is no serious resource in Hungary other than the Hungarian citizens. If we do not invest in people, we do not develop human capital, then this country has no future. In the current budget, there are amounts of growth in education and health, but they actually only make up for some of what has been immensely lacking in recent years. These are not real growths. As a woman, the behavior of a careful parent is a decisive model for me. But as a woman, it is also important for me to show what government policy can do for women, and not only for prestigious investments that serve first and foremost the dominant Hungarian male elite. Firstly, it is essential to promote the remuneration of women in education, health and the social sphere, above all. Not only do these women carry the whole country on their backs, but they still have to face poor old age, they earn so little compared to what an incredible responsibility they have on their shoulders. I propose that the government increase the care fee, above all, for women and parents who raise children whose care this state simply cannot. Tens of thousands of women in Hungary are forced to stay at home without the help of the state, to stay out of work; they cannot take jobs because they care for their children with special needs, for hunger. It's just unbearable. I propose that the Government - and in this connection I will also submit amendments - finally ratify the Istanbul Convention. It is only available for 8 billion forints that every woman in Hungary and every child who is forced to suffer abuse will receive clear, quick help, whose quality of life could be improved spectacularly by this state if it wanted to. And those abusers with whom Hungary is full can be sanctioned to the appropriate extent. Obviously, the police, the court, the teachers must be prepared to detect abuse. In these days, we will not be able to talk more about this vastly ugly taboo that is constantly depressing Hungary. It would cost nothing, it's just a matter of political will. Obviously, I propose more resources for hospitals and clinics in order to provide quality services there. I consider it very important that government initiatives to open up family day care centers throughout Hungary in all settlements should be accompanied by resources that not only show up in buildings, but also, where possible, the wages of those working there, potential workers, adults looking after children. I couldn't find any funds for these in the budget. In order for women to be able to work with children, it is necessary that these institutions grow throughout Hungary, not only in large cities, but in all Hungarian settlements. This would help prevent hundreds of thousands of women from fleeing from small settlements in Hungary because there is no perspective for them. Hungary can only be a successful country if it looks to the future, and not only men but also women's opportunities for life are increased in this country. Overall, I think that the government should pay the debt. If there's money, it's to pay off the debt. You can't leave the money you've wasted before to our kids, because that money's only gonna get more expensive. Increase Parliament to the XXI. Schools for education and health needs in the first century create a predictable economic environment. This budget, in its present state, does not meet these conditions in any way, because it is sacrificing Hungary's future on the altar of the moment. Therefore, the budget in this form is unacceptable. Thank you very much.
u2016-05-11-48	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. It is now time for a speaker's speech. I give the floor to Mr Alexov Lyubomir. Here you go.
u2016-05-11-49	Poštovani Predsednice! Poštovana Skupštino! U ime Narodnosnog odbora Parlamenta nastavljam obrazloženje potrebe povišice budžeta za narodnosne svrhe. I'd like to continue in Hungarian. Mr President, Dear Parliament, As a spokesperson invited by the committee, and continuing the line of thought already summarised by my colleague Ritter, I would also like to further justify the need to increase the budget lines for nationalities compared to last year, the role of the local government system, civil organisations, public education grants, as well as the role of an important segment of ethnic culture, self-realization and identity preservation. Cultural care and traditional activities are present daily in the work of national governments, the civil sphere. This appears in the amateur theatre, in the work of folk music, singing and folk dance groups, in the work of collecting and processing folk songs. The cultural life of nationality is extremely diverse, interesting and valuable, which is an invaluable treasure. [[13.50]] The cultural institution network maintained by the national authorities is constantly evolving, the future survival of which means value not only for nationalities but also for the majority of Hungarian society. In the virtual world of today's modern age, where social networks, the media, play a crucial role, and unfortunately uniformize people, particular attention and care must be paid to the preservation of national and national culture, as globalisation processes make this area disappear as quickly as possible. At the same time, I note that the lack of media coverage of the ethnic population living in Hungary, expressed in some areas, can also cause daily injury. The transfer of ethnic interests to generations is subject to Article XXI. The use of technical possibilities of the 20th century. Research work to ensure the discovery of ethnic life is impossible without providing financial resources, and the lack of it results in the loss of the values of the past. In our view, it is necessary to support organisations and creative workshops operating in different segments of culture, as their work greatly slows down the daily impairment, but it is also necessary to support all the works that document, record and demonstrate the diversity of cultural life in Hungary, including ethnic cultures. With this in mind, I stress the importance of supporting the cultural creative, research and artistic activities of nationalities, including, and as an example, the promotion of documentary filmmaking, film presentation, national theatre festivals, and the promotion of projects of ethnic scientific research institutions in the field of linguistic, folk and historical traditions. The preservation of nationality is best served by the maintenance of mother tongue and culture, and, in addition to the autonomy of the local government, by artistic, creative and traditional activities, of which high-quality research is also an integral part. These will be visible to a broad Hungarian society by the practice of this sacrificial traditionalist activity of nationalities. In Hungary, as you have heard from my colleague, there has been a significant and outstanding change in support of nationalities since 2015. Between 2002 and 2014, central budgetary support to nationalities was underfunded in the same order. Due to the low amount of funds granted for 12 years, it has led to an unfair disadvantage in the exercise of nationality law. Due to the lack of resources, the activities carried out in order to maintain and maintain self-government autonomy and nationality have been difficult in many cases. The establishment of an institution of minority advocates was a significant breakthrough in Hungarian ethnic life. As a result of the work carried out in the Parliament, political parties agreed to the aim of adapting the central budget support to nationalities in 2015 to the actual and well-founded needs in order to ensure an added value of nationality life for Hungary in the future. This Directive was also reflected in the establishment and adoption of the central budget for 2016. The financial resources provided made operational and task-based support available to national authorities predictable, thus facilitating the exercise of autonomy in the local government. The operational funding of the institutions maintained by nationalities has improved compared to the previous ones, and the expression of identity in the area of nationality civil life, traditional care and the preservation of linguistic values may have started to develop after many years of decline. The Hungarian Parliament's legislative work on the nationalities is exemplary and exemplary, which is also appreciated by the mother countries of nationalities. The increase in resources since 2015 has proved to be an absolute replacement provision, but this is not the end of the replacement process. The 2016 budget allocation for nationalities in Hungary was intended to compensate for the serious delays in recent years, but the additional resources planned in the 2017 budget are essential for the real and breakthrough recovery. In Hungary's central budget for 2017, I consider these cultural subsidies to be necessary. Nationalities are able to introduce themselves through their traditions and culture, and to demonstrate their identity through the practice of these activities. I would mention that, for example, the creation of documentary film is absolutely necessary in order to make the values and events of the past and present visible in the future. There must be no delay in this area. Values disappear every day, the documentation of which, the absence of film or of its inclusion on stage, will cause impairment in the future. In the field of film production, besides the lack of creating new works, there is also a problem that the archival of earlier film works is not ensured due to a lack of resources. Research work to ensure the discovery of ethnic life would also be impossible without providing financial resources, and this lack will result in the loss of past values. Nationalities in Hungary also play a key role in the cultural community organisation of nationalities, with sufficient resources to provide them with a total nationality interest. Planability is a prerequisite for institutional operations, so more attention should be paid to the fact that funding starts already scheduled at the beginning of the year in order to ensure that the first quarter of the year is not unbalanced financially. Predictability, the natural consequence of which is the availability of resources within the deadline, is an essential condition for well-planned institutional operation. The stability of the appropriations for the budget year shall determine the institution's annual safe functioning. The revival of the ethnic theatre festival is an extremely important issue in the creative art of nationality. This event is of interest not only to the nationalities of Hungary, but also to the majority of Hungarian society, and it also strengthens relations in the motherland, which is of paramount importance in the artistic and cultural field. Dear Parliament, I trust that, during the drafting of the law on Hungary's central budget for 2017, the interests of Hungarian nationalities will also be taken into account. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2016-05-11-50	Thank you very much, Mr Speaker. Ladies and gentlemen, Now we have two-minute comments. Anyone who wants to speak, please come in. [[For signal:]] I give the floor to Congressman Nándor Gúr. Here you go, Congressman.
u2016-05-11-51	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I would like to raise one subject and I would like to make two requests to my fellow members of the Government. The only issue concerns the issue of the National Employment Fund. This fund is within which the Start Work Programme is presented, for which HUF 15 thousand million less money is foreseen for 2017 than was in 2016. This money is taken out of the system, but unfortunately it is not included in the employment and training support system on this basis. It would at least appear there, because it would be there to provide tangible help to employers who wish to employ them. [[14.00]] It might be worth considering that if they are already lost within the framework of the Start Work Programme, the framework for employment training grants should be extended. [[István Ikotity is replaced by Ádám Mirkóczki in the notary seat.]] My two requests would be to try to examine the budget through those glasses and to take such measures, which, in turn, will lead to a rise in the wages of the vast majority of people working in Hungary and to an increase in purchasing power. I could give examples of the amounts announced in health care - I don't see it in the budget today, only showing half of it, but then we should think about how the promises are being fulfilled. Or/and the other thing I would like to mention is the creation of an expansion of employment, but through job opportunities in this country and not just within the framework of public employment, providing and providing decent wages on the basis of living. Mr. President, thank you very much.
u2016-05-11-52	Thank you very much, Congressman. As several have not applied for a two-minute speech, we will begin the following round of speeches: from the Fidesz Group, MEP László Vigh has applied for a speech, who will give his speech here on the stand. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2016-05-11-53	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, I think the 2017 budget ahead is about family support, job creation and decent growth. I think that in recent times this country has come a huge way, and what we have achieved has not been the performance of Parliament, not the government, but the Hungarian people. The greatest achievement, I think, is that 4.3 million people are working today instead of 3.7 million people, an increase of around 600,000. I think that every Hungarian can be proud of that. There are three hundred or a few thousand unemployed, the main aim of the government and the parliament is full employment, so that we can give work to all the people who want to work in Hungary today. Our economic growth this year and next year is estimated to be around 3 percent. I mention this because the thesis that the Hungarian state and the European Union cannot function separately is often said, it can only move at the same time, it can develop at the same time. I would like to point out that GDP in the EU, economic growth, will be 1-1.5%. So we're going to lie a little bit about these thesis, because the Hungarian economy is growing more this year and the next year than the Union. The inflation is about 0 percent; I heard this morning's data saying about 0.8 percent this month, but we think it's going to be around 0 percent all year round. Then our unemployment rate, which is currently about 6.1-6.2 percent, we hope that we will be able to reduce it to below 6 percent this year, but we will definitely reach this goal in 17th grade. In my speech, I would like to talk about the local government sector, the local government sector, which, I believe, is a success sector throughout the country. This success sector will be greatly supported and developed by three things next year. These are the three things: the county TOP money, and then the regional development operational programme received by county-righted cities are funds that can be drawn from the funds and the programme of modern cities. I think these three large areas are starting a huge development in our small towns and cities. If I buy only my narrower country, Zala County, there will be around HUF 23 billion in 8 small towns and 248 villages, and we would like these to be used for the development of kindergartens, for the renovation of dental and general medical clinics and for the energy renewal of public buildings. Then the county-righted cities also receive regional development operational funds, where infrastructure development is one of the main objectives and the renovation of the institutions. Then there's the third very large target area, the "Modern Cities" programme, in which we want to develop transport infrastructure. Hungary's transport has been very central in the last hundred years, as it is easy to get from Győr to Budapest or from Nagykanizsa to Budapest or from Pécs, but if we want to come down from Győr to Zalaegerszeg or from Zalaegerszeg to Pécs, it is, I think, very difficult now. Within the framework of the programme. Modern Cities, all county-righted cities that are not currently connected to motorways would like to take a two-track expressway to the motorways. The businesses that are looking for us today in Zalaegerszeg and in several cities are all missing this infrastructure. I believe that this is a barrier to development, and in the near future this budget, 2017 will remedy that. Which is a very big problem and problem, I think, in Transdanubia, but I would say, throughout the country, there is an existing shortage of skilled workers. In Zalaegerszeg, we try to help him by helping young people who are thinking about staying there, both through vocational training and by an engineering scholarship. The shortage of labour, I think, will have to come back in the next period, because this will be one of the barriers to the development of the country, if we cannot provide adequate labour for the various construction projects - I am thinking of the CSOK and others. Over the past few years, we have moved to task-based funding in the municipalities, and I think that this system has stabilised. In recent years, municipalities have accumulated some 1,200 billion in debt. This has been consolidated, and in 2016, municipalities that have not been indebted will receive some 12.5 billion extra resources, already at the second stage, so they will receive gift money. I think that this is a huge help to the municipal system. Another item in the budget: municipalities with below-average tax capacity also receive additional support, so municipalities where there is no particular business, motor vehicle and other taxes are assisted by the government with an additional support. There has been a very big debate here in Parliament over the past few years about the establishment of joint offices, and we have moved on from the Circuits. In the budget, the 17th and the 16th, I think this system is working well. Some have caused a village closure panic in this regard that small settlements, small villages, will cease to exist. I would like to point out that the joint municipal office operation is working properly, fairly and normally, and that number of two thousand that we made back in the day, at the time, can be kept by the settlements. The other very large item in the budget is public employment, with a budget of some HUF 325 billion. I think that we are providing the municipalities with a huge support, with some 250 thousand people working in public employment. Over the past few years, we have had many attacks on whether it makes sense to sweep the streets and then to mow grass, but I think that the opposition has come down a little on this subject, because in several settlements, there may be a village or a city, we can entrust the public workers with meaningful work. If I buy small villages, they produce all the vegetables and plants they need to supply the village in agricultural work, and they can produce them for the local cuisine. I have heard from many of my fellow Members in East Hungary that there are very poor small settlements where the vegetables and plants produced in public works provide a livelihood. [[14.10]] In recent years, a public education wage arrangement has started, which, I think, is assured in the budget that it can continue. In 2017, a major change in nursery care, along with the old nursery system, will appear the family nursery. I think that a lot of mothers would like to return to the world of work, and we have helped them in recent times by allowing them to go to work alongside the poor and the poor and the two things they have to do, and I think that this needs to continue, and this kindergarten of the family, I think it will help. In 2016, 71.7 billion, now, in 2017, 73.9 billion will be fed, and a new element in catering, which is very important that we also want to solve holiday meals so that children can have meals, breakfast, lunch and dinner during holidays as well. Similar to these objectives, we would like to increase the capacity of kindergartens and improve kitchens maintained by local governments. Local authorities can manage some HUF 2800 billion in 2017, with a central budget of HUF 668.4 billion. In general education, the main task of the municipalities is to provide kindergarten care in 2017, with four elements of funding provided by the central budget. The first element is wage support based on average wage, the second element is financing additional resources from the qualification of kindergarten teachers, the third element is kindergarten operating aid, and the fourth element is that municipalities who require it can also receive money for the travel of entry children. The specific cost of running the kindergarten will amount to HUF 80,000 per capita over the next period. I've only highlighted one or two elements because I'm trying to stay in the time frame. I feel that these elements can provide stability, a secure operation for local authorities, local small and larger settlements, and what I have said is that the TOP resources and the Modern Cities programme can launch improvements that we can say are in order for the 2017 budget. We have a budget that ensures stability, growth, progress for all, and we hope that we can create more jobs. I therefore ask with great respect my fellow Members to adopt the 2017 budget. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-05-11-54	Thank you very much, Congressman. The next speaker from the MSZP Group is Mr István Hiller, Vice-President of the Parliament. Here you go, Mr. Vice President.
u2016-05-11-55	Mr President, Congresswoman Wives and Congressman Lords! Dear Government, Indeed, a well-spoken budget is not just a multitude of numbers, but it represents directions, philosophy, everything that a government thinks of, the country, its nation, and even its wider environment, and its relationship with it. Therefore, instead of giving and receiving money as usual in politics, in Parliament, I am calling you to a thought in which we are trying to see, in a large area, the directions that I see as palpable or very powerful in your respectable majority policy, which are the directions that I find less well-founded and rather hesitating, and which are the directions, steps, where our thinking may be similar. There is no doubt that an opposition to the budget, to the budget presented by the majority, must be critical according to the rules of democracy, and I think that it is also right, so that a normal-thinking country can function, but if we see not only numbers, but not just increases or reductions from one year to another, then it is worth thinking and expressing in the longer term that we are our opinions in this case. I would like to clarify the Socialist Party's opinion on education and culture in the area of the budget proposal presented. Perhaps we should not simply speak in the language of numbers, not only look at numbers, although the budget alone is certainly suitable to compare figures, but because I see this area as something where your opinion, policy and direction of the honourable government and the majority groups are clearly revealed, I see this as being clear, and I want to express my opinion about their efforts in this regard. I suggest we divide it into parts, first look at public education as an area in which our opinion has been conflicted in recent years. This difference of opinion could not only be felt within the walls of Parliament, but in recent months, years, especially in the last six months, one of the most significant areas of social resounding is education, including public education, where much more people spoke about it in their own way than those who deal with politics professionally or even on a daily basis. The increase that Minister and then Minister for Finance, who made the referral today, said in addition to the minister, is worth examining in detail. The increase that I see in terms of public education can be divided into two large parts, slightly over 105 billion forints. One of them is the earlier... - and it will be worth talking about whether it was already well-solved or because of the under-financing of the Klebelsberg Institution Support Centre on the road to prosperity, now becoming indispensable, when more than HUF 90 billion is not needed for development, nor for raising standards, but because they saw and knew that the operation and maintenance of nationalised Hungarian public education, if I want to make it understandable to everyone, is the academic year where hundreds of thousands of our children and grandchildren are studying, and under such conditions it cannot be operated even by maintaining the standard. There is a serious risk that, in addition to the persistent work of educators, we are witnessing a serious fall in standards. I don't want to refer to the past years, we really argued about this for a long time, they denied it for a while, they didn't talk about it very much, then later the government's necessary decisions helped Hungarian public education by ten billion dollars a year as an immediate intervention, all because the budget of the centre of nationalised public education was consciously or as a test, but it was definitely underfunded, so every year at the end of August, it turned out at some point in the middle of autumn that the academic year would not go away. That is why I propose that we agree that the majority of the surplus on public education, which is included in the budget proposal, is not devoted to quality improvement, but to replacement, because they knew precisely from the experience of recent years that under-financing had fallen. This was not only revealed in the reality of the classrooms, but also in the reality of the classrooms, and brought so many local scandals - because the vast majority of the elected individual representatives are you, respected majority factions - you are obviously faced as well as we, who represent a minority elected as individual representatives - that citizens, parents, teachers, and school workers appeared in reception hours or even during discussions, and later in the public, that the situation was untenable. [[14.20]] So in this increase, I do not see any attempt to improve the quality of the world, but, as I have said, to make up for a deficit that has now become indispensable, so that the academic year is at least smoother than it has been before, and, no doubt, part of the surplus is part of the budget support for this or the next year's part of the previously formulated pedagogical career model. Anyone who criticizes the additional resources provided to teachers can only do so by saying that there is little. Although it is not only about policy makers, but also about policy makers who make laws, I respectfully call their attention, and if they don't take it personally, I would like to put it in their ears whether they have done everything right and done well when they have made a significant amount of money in educators' wages with an income-enhancing purpose that the masses of teachers are otherwise protesting. Perhaps it could not have been all right with professional development, if the good part of those who otherwise received it was the professional counterweight they had done in their law called public education, and they disagreed. But there is another important issue concerning public education. Please, let us consider together whether this is appropriate. This budget proposal is presented to Parliament at a time when, according to the plans of the honourable government, you intend to make very significant changes in the structure and governance of Hungarian public education. You can hear about this, and we will certainly express our opinion in a separate debate that, although the centre will not be abolished, instead of KLIK, they want to keep the name of KK Klebelsberg, which is in itself correct, although what they have worn out with the operation of the institution-supporting centre is worth studying. But, as I hear it, they do not want to shut down the centre, but they continue to operate as Klebelsberg Centre, some sort of centre, even if they combine it into 57 so-called management centres, as a kind of decentralisation attempt, to maintain the institutions of Hungarian public education - obviously the nationalized ones - with a direction, and this is my first short detour, we agree, at least I agree with him, that in this crazy over-centralization we have had to take steps that bring decisions closer to schools, educators, educators, but mostly to the children concerned. Please tell me why 57 is exactly why, because in the history of the Hungarian administration, I have not yet been able to find a unit that covered this 57, not in the whole of the administration and not in the Hungarian administration. I consider the district to be a functional unit, the district in a similar size, we can talk about the county level and obviously there is a national level, but that on the basis of a number 57, obviously combining several walks or districts, why this is so much and so, this has not yet been resolved, it is not the task of the budget bill. But if these are reported to the professional and non-professional public, then obviously there must be a basis for funding. I must say to you that the change you are planning from this budget proposal is not accompanied by any funding funds in a given world. What can be read from the 2017 budget is the improved funding of the structure that you have now acknowledged, and you see that you have failed. The two changes don't meet. One change is when education is treated in the manner set out in the bill in 2017 and the other is when it was announced that they would change the structure of public education and the administration of education, but the two are not in a thank-you relationship. I must say to you that the conclusion here in the first half of May is not too brave to allow you to come up with a budget amendment this year because of the transformation of Hungarian public education that you are planning. Otherwise, it won't work. Or they're doing what's written in the budget, but it's - I'm simplifying it now - the KLIK model. Or what they have just announced is that they are working on it, and although it is not fully ready, they are taking Hungarian public education in a decentralisation direction, but there is no record of this in the budget. You're not seriously suggesting that the same money could be used to finance the conversion itself, are you? Definitely not. That the establishment, operation of 57 management centers, the complete conversion can be null and void? Definitely not. Once again, there is no evidence in the budget of this transformation and of the financing of the modified structure. You are financing a structure in the budget proposal that you consider to be a failure and are therefore preparing to change it. We don't believe in this device. Nationalization has been made as absurd and as absolute as it has never been in the history of the Hungarian administration, ever since the ministry of József Eötvös, not before the First World War, not between the two world wars, and never after the Second World War. After three to four years, based on experience and echoes, they realize that this can't continue, because it's a failure, because it's confronted with resistance, and there's practically no professional, social support, so they want to change it. In fact, we should be pleased that they have decided to make a change, but in the budget presented next year we do not see the financing of this change, but we want to improve the financing of the former failed structure. This is not going to work, and you know it, so I suggest that we note that if you decide to change the structure of Hungarian public education, as you think, this budget should be amended and amended. In the case of professional laws, and now also in the case of the Finance Act, I would like to say that we do not see this excessive centralisation to maintain the quality of Hungarian public education, and certainly not to increase it. Please consider pouring the money into this structure, which I could best picture as a bucket with a hole, while pouring it out at the bottom. You can see that. I admit that you put a lot of energy into it, and now you're trying to put more money into it, like last year, but the structure is bad, so a lot of energy and money is draining out and leaking out. I suggest that this should not continue, because it will not result; it is the children, the students, that are most likely to suffer. [[14.30]] In short, higher education. In the case of higher education, however, it must be stated that for half a decade you have had no idea of the governance of Hungarian higher education. All you have left in your head about Hungarian higher education is that in 2008 more than 3 million people were carried to the urns, they were persuaded to vote; when they gained the opportunity to govern and came to power, it turned out that they did not know about higher education. Well, the more unprofessional law that was created in 2011 in Hungarian higher education, the history of Hungarian higher education has not yet seen. This is presented in a very similar way among non-politicians, such as academics. At the same time, this half decade was a good opportunity to withdraw an amazing amount of money from Hungarian higher education, especially from the support of the central budget to higher education institutions, in the plans for Hungarian politicians who left behind, and so in their two plans named after poor Kálmán Széll. The increase that is now being put into the support of Hungarian higher education and its central budget support is a step forward from the previous year to the years, so in 2017 the support of the central budget for higher education will reach 0.7 percent. With all due respect, in 2010, the same ratio was 0.8 per cent. If anyone could say, neither I nor we could be proud of the fact that in the middle of a crisis we were able to translate this much into higher education. But please, six years after the government has been taken over, the central government-related support for higher education for their budget for next year does not reach the level with which governance was taken over in 2010. That's the truth, 0.8 percent in 2010, with the current increase increasing to 0.7 percent. After six years, five years on the ground, a year, let's call it that, after going forward, will not be held there, as in 2010 with regard to the target number just given. I'm gonna have to go back to public education here for one more point. For example, as I have said, their policy is to strengthen centralization in public education by another step, and what has been made possible so far for certain municipalities to otherwise operate is now also nationalised. This somewhat more than 60 HUF, a little less than 70 billion, has been allocated to municipalities in the budget nowhere in the world. You take over the task from the municipality, this is announced at ministerial level, the municipalities, not taking note of it, hear this, but in the funding, in the budget, this amount between HUF 60-70 billion - because we do not yet know exactly how much it was in 2015 - do not form the basis. Finally, briefly and symbolically from culture: the amount for culture compared to 2016, and this is a fair thing, nominally growing, but if you look at its internal structure, it contains amazing extremes. Large investments, constructions and renovations are the essential part of the surplus in their budget proposal. There are cases in which I think we will be able to agree. It is right that, after six years, the idea that the Hungarian State Opera House will be renovated is developed. Although in 2009-2010 this was attacked sharply, it was considered unnecessary, it was six years later, they should have changed their opinion earlier, but that they were planning to do so, at least for preparation, for sums, that is the right thing to do. But the most typical part of this is not the vastly huge part of the budget as a whole, but symbolically, which I would like to present to you, fellow Members in majority groups, the funding of the Hungarian Academy of Arts. Trust me, this is gonna be a treat for researchers over the next decade. Here they are doing something in Hungarian culture that is an opportunity for cheerful university students and less cheerful researchers to write an army of studies. The Hungarian Academy of Arts, which is now a partner not only in public education but also in the establishment of the minimum wage - what else would the Hungarian Academy of Arts have to do with setting the minimum wage - the budget of the Hungarian Academy of Arts is increasing significantly again because a new office building is needed. As it is well known, the Kunsthalle has already been put into the property of the Hungarian Academy of Arts, for which they cannot wash away that what they have done is a disgrace. Since the Műcsarnok was inaugurated by the then Hungarian king, Ferenc József, it has belonged to contemporary Hungarian art and fine art. One government has never owned a trend, and you have done so. Similarly, they did it with Pesti Vigadó, and after handing over Pesti Vigadó to the Academy of Arts, it turned out, following the communication from the Secretariat of the Academy of Arts, that Pesti Vigadó was not suitable for bureaucratic purposes. I note that if two Hungarian citizens had been asked, who had been at a cultural event, concert or anything else at the Pest Vigadó, whether he was a dear Hungarian citizen, whether this would be suitable for bureaucratic purposes, he would most likely have said that he was not. You gave it to me, and now it turns out that it is not suitable for that purpose, so in the budget proposal a new office building will be given to the Hungarian Academy of Arts with a HUF 1.2 billion investment, which is thus ahead of the budget - I ask you to look into this - of a very serious peak opportunity. It is an institution that spends 83 percent of the aid on itself. This, please, is thinning your mate. It does not use the support for which it was created, which is its purpose, but for its own secretariat, its own office building and the award of academic honors. He's got a research facility, but he doesn't have any research. For example, he has a secretariat, but it doesn't organise programs. He has three giant palaces now, but he can't do bureaucratic tasks. I must say that it is thinner in all respects, and the fact that it is further strengthened shows how abnormal the internal structure of culture funding is in your perception. Compared to this, there is virtually no additional source of public culture allocated to municipalities. The fact is, and I would conclude with this, because culture is just as true as public education, this budget, respected majority groups, reflects that the poorer you are, the less opportunities you have, and the richer you are, the more you can feel in a box. Therefore, we will not support this budget in detail or in its entirety, but will reject it. Thank you so much for listening.
u2016-05-11-56	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. From the group of the KDNP, we have a speech from Congresswoman Rózsa Hoffmann. Here you go, Congresswoman.
u2016-05-11-57	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, The existence of a budget in the life of both a family, a settlement, a region or nation, or an even larger unity is essentially guaranteeing predictability; security, in some cases certainty, but in any case planning. And the sooner you have a budget for a time frame for a community, the better, because planning and certainty will pay off in the long term in people's lives, happiness and work. For this reason, the Christian Democratic People's Party, I, too, wholeheartedly supported last year's preparation of the draft budget as soon as possible, and so we are this year. Even though I have heard that one or another of the opposition representatives criticized the lead speaker of Jobbik, the current government has given up a century and a half tradition of presenting the budget so early in spring. [[14.40]] Traditions are sacred things, you have to respect them, but it's not a tradition that was carved in stone, and it's good to have it in advance. On the other hand, I remember well when the second Orbán government started its governance in 2010, before the MSZP presented the budget in autumn 2009, it was sometime in December that Parliament adopted the tradition of a century and a half, so it did not prepare it in the spring, but in the autumn, but we had to deal with it at the beginning of our governance, and then for months to resolve this budget, to supplement it, to make cuts, because a budget was based on false figures - we know that the European Union acknowledged this - and indeed the country was on the brink of collapse. On the other hand, we were able to start 2016 this year with a budget that was completed in time, and if time, life, disasters, tragedies, unexpected things, or just not well-known things, even when the budget needs to be changed, it is good to have it. So much for preparing the budget. I believe that recognition should be given to both the government, the whole government, the heads of the Ministry of National Economy, its staff, the State Audit Office, the Fiscal Council for all the work that has been done with expertise and in such a short period of time, as the contributions made today have convinced us all. In the ministerial exposé, the Minister of National Economy called it the budget for tax cuts and home creation, a budget in which everyone can make one move forward. This statement was supported by figures, data and facts in the expozee, and we can count on sustainable and stable growth, he said. The Christian Democratic People's Party, which has been involved at both expert and political level and has been involved in the development of the budget for years, will, of course, wholeheartedly support and support this. Dear Parliament, As a speaker, I cannot help but react to some of the words and statements that have been made since 8:00 a.m., in particular to one or more manifestations of opposition representatives. I will do this even if only three opposition Members praised the ministerial expo for listening - sorry, with the chairman, four - perhaps six or seven of the State Audit Office's reports, if I counted correctly, and then no longer counted. Thus, it is no wonder that many unrealities or distortions that are not true were made in their words. We all know that, as the Member before me noted, the opposition's habit of modern democracies - and this will certainly not change - is that they do not praise, but criticize, and therefore do not accept, so this previous statement does not surprise us, but the criticism does not mean that a series of untruths are being claimed. We, who have read the budget, even if not all the volumes, but we are aware of the main issues, we know and smile on them. However, there are many people in the country who follow the Parliament's budget debate and do not look at such thick volumes, which is why I think it is important that Parliamentary Secretary Péter Banai did what he was very firmly demanding - he apologized, asked because his speech was very polite - from opposition representatives, that if they claim that this is a budget of tyranny, for example, or that they state facts that they do not favour them, they should be kind, support their statements with the corner numbers of the budget. They haven't done this yet, and I'm gonna stay here for a while, and I'm gonna be interested in waiting for them to do that. We are also used to the fact that, in the course of the budgetary debate, opposition representatives prefer to use the opportunity to shine their own policy ideas here. We have also heard an example of this, and I do not intend to respond to these, because this is not the place for the budgetary debate. But we also smile and acknowledge it as something that always happens that way. However, I cannot accept it with a smile, nor can my fellow Members of the Group smile at the fact that some Members have struck a tone here and described the budget with terms that are unworthy of Parliament's work. I will not intentionally repeat these words so as not to confirm inappropriate words, but I am avoiding them. For example, the head speaker of the MSZP described this budget as alms and the fact that it is impossible to dance with attached legs. Dear fellow Members, We all know that we are here - who doesn't know, there is a mistake - that between 2002-2010, the same MSZP has always created and adopted budgets based on false figures, and by 2010 they almost destroyed the country. From this budgetary and economic situation, the current government drew and highlighted this country with six years of hard work, and one of the important instruments of this was the budget that we have created again this year. I would like to recall once again the Kant quote of great success, not entirely literally, but its essence: if we do not realize that we are not dealing with the mind of our partner, but with his will in the debate, we are making a mistake, because in vain we are arguing about the side of reason where we are dealing with will and settings. I therefore propose to everyone that they store the unworthy or innocuous comments and criticisms they have said in a sense of this relationship. It's not about reason, it's not about argument, it's about reason, it's about will and setting up. Then I'll continue with the budget appreciation and negotiation. I wouldn't want to be stuck in one specialty until I had a few words about the budget in general. Let us first look at the most important trends. Some of these - I don't read them all, on the one hand we heard them in the expo, I just want to draw attention to them again. GDP growth was 0.7 per cent in 2010 and is planned for 2.5 per cent in 16 and 3.1 per cent by the end of 2017. What if it's not a direct result to people? Because they enjoy the results of this in their wages, in consumption, they see it in our ever-beautiful cities and villages. The same is true of sovereign debt, which was one of the most tragic figures in 2010. It exceeded 80 per cent of GDP in 2010, perhaps 83 per cent. This government debt fell to 74.5 per cent by 16 and by the end of 17 the plan number is 71.9 per cent. That means 9 percent reduction in seven years. It is still huge, still very high, but there are few examples in the world that a country could rise from such high public debt in this direction, with such a tendency. Finally, the third important indicator is the unemployment rate, which was 11.2 per cent in 2010, 5.5 per cent in 2016 and 5.2 per cent by the end of 2017. [[14.50]] These unemployment figures are viewed with admiration and respect wherever I turn around and discuss them with politicians from other nations; they are the efforts of the Hungarian people, the performance of the Hungarian economy, for which it is appropriate to thank them and all the working people. Let us see how people feel about the budget, which many of my fellow Members have asked for; and it is indeed the meaning of the budget, its purpose and essence, in addition to what has been said, that people, members of the particular society, should feel the positive and increasing impact of this. It is not easy, of course, to bring satisfaction and to expect from people, because we know that human nature is such that it is happy with the surplus, but it is always few. This is reflected in the budget. Local governments, which can help people with their skills and problems locally, can give them support and manage their affairs, well, their overall support will increase by HUF 9.8 billion in 2017. That's 6.7 percent increase. Child welfare benefits increase by 11 billion, an increase of 5.8 percent. Operating grants also increase by HUF 400 million, 1.2 percent. The increase in municipal subsidies is already felt better by the individual, at the level of the large state budget, by the flying billions, although they also get to it. Further opportunities for the local government to reach people, and in this you can discover directions, a government philosophy, a government priority: the family tax system continues to help the lives of individual families and makes it easier for families with children. I am aware of the reaction that many people have to deal with, let's say, with a tax reduction, that they are less likely to live as income plus, they are more likely to experience a wage increase. Therefore, I could suggest that families should also prepare their own budgets, and if they buy a paper every month and write that this will be the amount of income, say, my wages and expenditure, then the differences can be seen, and on the expenditure side there will be VAT cuts, which, as has already been said, are significant in the case of basic food, and a reduction in personal income tax will appear on the revenue side, which, I repeat, will be quite uniquely low in Europe, 15 percent in 2017. And at the moment, when these family budgets are completed, people are more confronted with the fact that the opportunity to live better is not only to increase wages, but also to take other government measures. The home creation program is one of the greatest achievements of this government. The budget is planning HUF 211 billion for this, and, yes, it favours families, child birth, a happier, calmer life. And here, too, we can see that the government has a good sense of what is one of Hungary's most serious problems; unfortunately, there are several of them, but one of the most serious things in Europe is that few children are still born almost everywhere, although growth has also started up here. How can that be helped? With nesting. And this family-building, home-building program, the CSOK and other things will help you do that. The residential loans, as we have heard, while 70 percent of them were foreign exchange loans in 2010, will be around 1 percent by 17 percent, which is also a huge help to the family. And then let's add that inflation is approaching zero percent. In other words, the Hungarian people do not have to assume that it is good, that they will receive a wage increase, but in a year's time they will not feel the effect. I do not know who of the fellow Members remember, if I remember correctly, it was in 2002, when the promised 50 percent wage increase was actually received and welcomed by public sector employees, including teachers - I remember it well, I worked at school. But inflation grew to such an extent that the impact of this could be felt less from month to month. After a year, technically, to quote the well-known American bestseller, he was blown away by the wind. Now, these increases, which will be in wages and in other ways in families, in the people of work, remain or decrease in value, as inflation is virtually near zero. Now, let's see how the families, the people, are getting more. Education, as we know, will receive HUF 270 billion. Here again, the reasoning we have just heard must be interpreted so that, for example, the additional HUF 90 billion in support of the institution support is not to be welcomed, because it does not serve a development, but compensates for the lack so far. You can understand it either way. The CLIK has already worked, the education system has already worked. At last, the government was in a position to do more accurate calculations on the one hand and to produce the amount that would provide the financial means of running the education system on the other. And if that is the case, this will certainly appear in a quality improvement, because we know that where there are no financial problems, we can pay more attention to the real work and there will be greater peace. I do not repeat what expenditure is increasing, and with regard to the increase in expenditure on culture of 66 billion, I would like to point out to the present Secretary of State that I would like to suggest that I pay more attention to the fact that areas which are essentially financed by proposals may need to be given a little more attention to the central budget. I am thinking about cutting back on the support of cultural and literary journals that have rightly caused complaints in recent years. So on one side, the person who works in culture is happy to receive an extra HUF 66 billion, but if he was able to run that magazine with just one million forints so far, and this does not exist now, because they say no in the competition, then this is not a good system, perhaps we should pay more attention to this too. Well, the pedagogical career was a good boost for other areas in 2013. Today, there are many areas that have careers, which again means predictability, certainty, and now no one questions that, for example, in the case of teachers, where they started in 2013, complementing the additional incomes of ratings, this is a serious achievement. I would add that, in addition to inflation close to zero per cent, the value of this is enormous. And no one has said so far, so I have this joyful task of mentioning that, through the support of various programs, there is also a great deal of additional resources available to people in an area that is very sensitive to the lives of people, families and certain families. For example, support for programmes to promote equal opportunities for people with disabilities is increased by 42.18 percent. The promotion of advocacy organisations for people with disabilities also increases by 78.83 percent. And there is a significant increase in support of church community programs and investments, and knowing that well over 50 percent of Hungarian people belong to some church, this is also indirectly helping people. And I am pleased to see that support for cultural festivals and events will also have a 100 percent increase in 2017. These mushroom modes have increased in Hungary, but it is welcome that in the summer, wherever you go, even in a small village, in a settlement, a festival colorizes the lives of the inhabitants, attracts people, so it is also very joyful. [[15.00]] [[Dr. István Hiller, vice-president of the Parliament, takes the chair.]] Almost finally, I would like to mention - for a bit of a re reference - the statements of the advocates of ethnicity that I can only strengthen, and which praised the tendency of the Hungarian budget and government to support the 13 minority minorities in Hungary. Imre Ritter, the German minority advocate, said such words, which I am happy to repeat, that their support has been constantly increasing, which has been deplorable before, and in the last hundred years there has been no precedent that nationalities in Hungary have enjoyed such support. And the regulatory problems he mentioned, I believe, are sufficiently addressed. Finally, allow one more sentence that foreign affairs, international relations and even our foreign policy have been given special attention - rightly - in recent years, and the budgetary implications of this are also reflected in the budget that was needed. I will not give you the arguments or reasons here because my fellow Member, Szilárd Németh, has said them in substance. But this includes an increase in the number of foreign representations, consulates, which we desperately need in this rapidly changing, not internationally friendly world, so that our foreign ambassadors, consuls and the apparatus there represent Hungarian interests. In its report, the State Audit Office pointed out that the budget had been drawn up in accordance with the law, and, more than that, that it complied with our Fundamental Law, and that it had been prepared by a specialist whose activity we do not question, since the expertise is there, in light of which it is difficult to understand the expression of one or more opposition representatives. I was pleased to hear the words of the President of the SAO, Mr László Domokos, who said that this is our first non-crisis budget, that Hungary has regained its budgetary autonomy, and that this budget is capable of establishing the future and bringing about the hope of greater growth. And since these words are true, I suggest that we all try to learn a little bit to be happy about what is good, because the trend proves with numbers and facts that we are on the right track. The Christian Democratic People's Party, which looks back not only to six years, but to two thousand years, which look forward not only to six years or two years, but to another thousand years, sees this trend as very important and evaluates the results and therefore wholeheartedly supports the budget. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-05-11-58	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Welcome. We'll get back to work. Mr György Szilágyi, representative of Jobbik, is the next speaker. Here.
u2016-05-11-59	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, I don't see the situation as rosy as Rose Hoffmann's picture here. [[Dr. Rózsa Hoffmann intervenes.]] For the second year now, this House is faced with the fact that the government's bill will be submitted significantly earlier than the date laid down by law, 31 October preceding the year. The quick work is rarely good, says the proverb, and unfortunately this is also true of the 2017 budget bill. Despite the new concept of the law, the only thing we can discover in the figures is some consistency, namely the fact that for the sixth time we can see a sharp increase in the cost of public operations, the continuous increase in the budget share of expenditure planned by the State to spend on its own. These trends appear to be fundamentally controversial because the government is talking about cutting red tape and cutting down the state. Despite the various programmes and strategies to stop public spending, each year, the state is gaining weight and expanding, including the state's spending on itself and its own operation. Let us look at some numbers as a comparison, which confirms the trend that I thought was harmful as outlined above. For example, the State Audit Office's budget shows an increase of some HUF 800 million, which represents a 10% increase. We can also see a significant increase of 12 billion in capital and county government offices, and we can even face the fact that their revenues are being reduced by approximately HUF 5 billion as planned. But one of the hardest things is that the amount planned for government communication tasks will increase from HUF 1 billion to almost HUF 16 billion. In addition to these few examples, it is necessary to mention that other appropriations do not increase nearly in this proportion. In particular, the planned increase in the amount of resources planned by the State to spend on itself is disturbing because, at the same time, we can see stagnation or a sharp reduction in other appropriations in the draft, and I will also give you a few talkative examples. Rózsa Hoffmann mentioned earlier - but I see that she has gone, so I cannot draw your attention to this - how the support of the municipalities has increased significantly. An example of this is how much it has grown: the operating support of local authorities shows a decline of about HUF 30 billion, which is negative 5 percent. The operational budget for defence is growing by around 8 billion according to the draft, which represents only 1.7 percent growth; when the migration wave causes such a serious problem in Hungary and all of Europe as a whole, we consider this to be very small. Then I can mention that the actual expenditure of the Klebelsberg Centre is falling by about 40 percent, even though we know that the appropriation was not enough last year. The National Cultural Fund is virtually stagnating, and the projected growth of HUF 0.1 billion represents only an increase of about 1 percent. On the basis of the figures, the emphasis was therefore clearly shifted from the development and construction of society to the development and construction of the state. The tax forints produced by Hungarian people therefore serve as a state growth that will also have to bear the costs of maintaining them in the future. Minister Mihály Varga said that the budget for tax reductions, home creation and growth in 2017 is the budget. Well, to think that money spent by the state on its own shouldn't be taken away from people, there would really be a significant tax reduction. During the creation of a home, the Minister may have thought more about creating a home for the state institutions, since the government intends to spend hundreds of billions of dollars on the location of the various state offices and institutions, which is significantly higher than the funds for real home creation. He probably meant the growth of central institutions, as only in these cases we can talk about a substantial increase in appropriations. The budget plan is a rather rough outline, but nothing is yet reflected in the large-scale restructuring and reduction measures announced in the last month and months. Is this because pre-proposals don't read newspapers or because what's in the paper is just a duck? It's a rhetorical question, and it'll come out, and time will prove what's true. It is possible, and I also wish that the 2017 budget will be a budget for stability, but unfortunately, the proposal before us is still far from final, so anything can happen in 2017 on this basis. I could suggest that this House ask the government for a well-prepared and well-thought-out proposal instead of the current sketch, which is quickly matched, but given your arrogance, they would not consider my request, so there is no need to ask such a question. And then let's look at a few areas, start with sports. You keep saying that you spend a lot of money on sports, because sport has a healthy role to play, and you say the same things, and you do, by the way, spend a lot of money on sports. In addition, as a politician whose main area is sport, I should definitely be happy about it, and I am pleased about it; I see the problem in what vast amount of money is spent within sport and for what purposes. [[15.10]] So they spend a lot of money on sports, but is it the right direction that you want to build another 30 stadiums with this sport money? Is this the right direction, is this the right direction? After all, sport is really useful, and sport has a very close relationship with health, and all sports and forints spent for good use within sport can really bring huge benefits in the field of health, and it has a preventive and preventive role. But stadium constructions have never, for example, had a preventive effect on health care. Especially when these stadiums are built by you, which means you build them by building beautiful stadiums, and then these stadiums almost drive the fans away, they don't go in, there's no mood, the game is getting worse. [[Csaba Dömötör: That's not true!]] That's right, Mr. Secretary, you have to go out for matches, you have to see how many people are in a stadium, and what mood is there in general. [[István Hollik: Fradi-Újpest!]] And to add, these could only have been solved with simple attention, with simple attention, could have been done differently. However, if we look at how much they spend on recreational sports, which is indeed closely related to health, we can say that there are very, very serious problems. It should also be pointed out, while I am talking about recreational dust, that the middle class is now almost a requirement for athletics, fitness, and that is a good thing. That's what people who can and can sacrifice for. Unfortunately, the poor can't even think about it. The percentage of leisure athletes is still below 10% in the country. As long as golf, sailing, tennis and high-income groups are cool, the poorer can't even run out because they have nowhere else to go, or they simply can't afford a good running shoe. As long as the success of competition sports is not uncommon in the light of gold medals, public or governmental players will appear, trying to inform society that this has been created with their help, student and leisure sports are in an undeservingly low place in this area. Politicians show their sports love by handing over a medal, not taking part, for example, in a recreational port event. The openness of sports facilities has still not been resolved. Even though it's said that this or that stadium, maybe a sports hall is built for everyone, it's impossible for a mortal to get in. So we're already dealing with a bad concept here, because we're building new facilities, and we're not taking advantage of these new facilities. May I remind you that since 2010 we have been constantly saying that Puskás Ferenc Stadium is standing empty, in a certain part of the year, very small part of the Puskás Ferenc Stadium was used, where there was a normal recortan runway, where there was lighting, where the right conditions could have been created to open it to the general public and with a small amount of effort could have been used by leisure athletes. They never listened to us in this regard. I know they're tearing down the Puskás Ferenc Stadium now, but I wonder if there's a plan to make sure that at times when they don't use these facilities, we can put these facilities into people's hands so that it can actually be useful on the weekdays when there are no, let's say, competitions here. But I would say and recommend that every new facility with public participation, public money, should also be designed to develop something suitable for free recreational activities in the area. It should also be linked to improving people's ability to play sports if they want to. Unfortunately, there are very few opportunities for this. We've talked about the role of sports as a health preserver. In this case, you can only talk about recreational sports, because it is a well-known thing, by the way, that racing itself is not one of the healthiest things, because if you want to be a leading athlete today, you will put your organization to very serious use there, and it can come back later. So once again, it is the recreational port that we should spend a lot of time on, it is the recreational port that we should clearly encourage people to do and create the opportunity for people to actually play sports. In order to prevent physical inactivity-related diseases - cardiovascular disease, stroke, diabetes, depression, and so on - sport could be an excellent cure. According to a 2009 data, inactivity-related diseases cost the state HUF 283.5 billion. I suppose this number has not really decreased since then, and it would be good to focus in the future on preventing disease and not on curing these diseases at an early stage. As I have already said, higher-income people have no problem playing sports, but lower-income people need to develop a system where they can play sports and create the possibility to play sports. We are pleased to see that there are, unfortunately, only missed, recreational amp parks, where we will discover the need for such parks and such parks. The state must play a major role here, because it cannot pass on this task only and exclusively to the municipalities. So once again, in new facilities, all these should be taken into account. Finally, he stated that not everyone would become a top athlete, but he could provide the basics, the framework for recreational sports, not to mention school sports, where children could like sports. It is therefore not enough to build and maintain new facilities and to ensure a high level of maintenance of these facilities. Getting better facilities and getting weaker stock unfortunately, if someone looks at the current situation. The operating cost framework should be increased. Let's see what kind of appropriations there are in the public sector here, let's talk about, say, the National Sports Centres that manage most of the Olympic Centres and which will also manage new facilities that are now being built. The NSK budget support has not only increased compared to last year, but even decreased slightly. This happened while the Spike Hall and swimming pool operated by NSK were completed. It's been handed over and it's working. Only the annual maintenance of the swimming pool amounts to more than HUF 100 million. In terms of personal benefits, the amount granted has also increased by 250 million at the NSK, but I think that it is still well below the level required by the operation of modern facilities. It is safe to say that today, in Hungary, two-handed workers are looking for the worst of sports facilities in the NSK, which is a public budgetary body. I therefore propose that the cost of NSK for personal benefits be increased by another 150 million, which could only be spent on the wages of physical workers. Modern and increasingly new facilities cannot be operated without suitably qualified personnel, which is currently not available. Coaches and professionals working in NSK's facilities can testify to the reality of my statement, and professionals who can serve the specific needs of sport for minimum wage will not perform quality work. Unfortunately, this can affect the entire performance of our sport. The HUF 38 million planned for the renovations sounds almost ridiculous, on the one hand, in the light of the construction of multibillion-dollar stadiums and key sports facilities. It appears that it is in no interest for the government to improve the state of state sports facilities or to have total professional incompetence in the minds of those who have determined this amount. I'd recommend renovations with an extra 140 million forints. It doesn't belong to sports, but I would also like to note that the Tom Lantos Institute receives a grant of HUF 120 million. I consider this to be a bit much, especially since the HUF 15 million support for the preservation of the foreign Hungarian memories below seems to be small compared to this. But let's get back to sports. The establishment of an academic system for national sports associations and the support of MLSZ's tasks would amount to nearly HUF 4 billion. I would like to support the proposal if the amount was allocated on the basis of effectiveness and the MLSZ was treated on an equal footing with the professional associations of other sports in the field of the development of academic systems. I don't think that's the case. I think we should go this way. Support for sport-based sports-based sports and leisure-port is also the limit of the joke in the light of the support of fidesz sports interests. While the support of an academy or a capital sports club linked to Fidesz is a billion-dollar item, the total Hungarian leisure port receives HUF 4774.4 million. This is a joke, this is ridiculous. [[15.20]] Student sports receive HUF 410.7 million, less than a larger sports club. Student sports associations will not be able to carry out an adequate level of professional work in the future, if that remains the case. Everyday physical education in this form is an undevelopmental replacement act only if we do not build on the work of the Student Sports Association and don't give the right money for their operation. Then there's the training and gym building program. I would also like to increase these costs from HUF 3-3 billion to at least double. It's not fair to have a Hungaroring Zrt. You will receive more than 13 billion forints, while these two more important areas are not half the total. It would also be possible to consider the promotion of sports facilities in the priority sports clubs - HUF 1 billion - and the amount of HUF 3.5 billion intended for the maintenance and operation of sports facilities in the priority sports associations. Of course, I find these items, which I have already said, to support recreational sports, to support sports for people with disabilities, to HUF 447 million; what we consider very little, and every year we submit an amendment to it, and you reject this amendment every year, and intend to give us HUF 25 million once again for the promotion of sport. It's very, very little money in our opinion. In addition, one more thing is worth mentioning in sport, and this is that the NFM not only supports the operation of the major sports clubs, but the EMMI also supports the operation with HUF 1.7 billion. Then I'd like to talk about a few things briefly. We would like to re-submit our amendment, and we will also submit what you are voting against every year, rejecting every year, even though it concerns a very important area, and this is the IVF programme, the flask baby programme. Unfortunately, in the demographic crisis in which the country is in, there are more and more couples who cannot have children for health reasons or for anything else. These couples have only one option to participate in the IVF programme. This IVF programme, by the way, is supported by the State up to a certain level, but self-sufficiency must be demonstrated. In each of these implants, each such procedure has a self-force of about 300,000 forints for these couples. Once again, we're talking about couples who can't have children, but maybe with this intervention, they can have children, yet they can start a family. A lot of people can't come up with this 300,000 forint, and that's why they can't even participate in the program. That is why we would like to create a fund that allows these couples to apply for their own shares, so they can submit applications and thus overcome the obstacle of having a real child. We think it's a very, very important question. We believe that this issue should be addressed by the government and supported by such efforts. So by submitting our amendment proposal, we ask you to support the IVF flask program to receive the support that these couples deserve, because afterwards - and the statistics show - these couples are raising honest citizens of their children and they love these children, because they have waited a long time for these children to be born. What I would like to talk about is how to increase this budget. By curbing corruption, fellow Members. If you were serious about reducing corruption, if you were serious about it, and not only in words that we should fight corruption in Hungary, we could save Hungary, the Hungarian state, serious tens, hundreds and thousands of billions, and spend almost more than the budget. In order to do that, we would have to take seriously the opposition's signals, the control positions, the state's control position, and we would also have to take it seriously to initiate proceedings in the cases identified, so if, where appropriate, the opposition draws attention to the fact that offshore companies are being illegally given money, then the government would have to deal with it even if it was unpleasant or possibly an investigation had to be initiated. Or I'll give you another example: if it could be stopped, and this is also a government responsibility, VAT fraud: VAT fraud, according to some statistics, statements and experts, represents a loss of HUF 2 000 billion per year to the state. 2,000 billion forints! You know how much that is? That's exactly what we're spending on health care. If we could only spend twice as much money on health care a year, how much better we'd be. It's just a matter of will. All I'm saying is that this is a matter of the work of the state, the government, and the bodies that take this task seriously. I say that corruption must be dealt with in any way, even if it affects you. It is not to look at who a corrupt person, a person who committed an economic crime belong to, but to look at what he has done and to harm Hungary, to harm the Hungarian state and to harm the Hungarian people. That's all I wanted to say about the budget. I would ask you to consider adopting our amendments, which we are submitting. I would like to highlight once more the amount requested for the flask baby program. I would ask the Fidesz Members, I would ask the pro-government Members, to support our amendments. Thank you so much for listening. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2016-05-11-60	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, State Secretary Péter Benő Banai asked for the floor on behalf of the government. Here you go.
u2016-05-11-61	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Allow me first, if I may put it this way, to express my joy that, after the first round of keynote speeches, there is no longer any question that the 2017 budget bill before us contains additional resources in a number of areas. Mr Vice-President pointed out that KLIK has a surplus of HUF 105 billion in public education. I would add that the total surplus of the public education area is HUF 175 billion, so I think that the statements that have been made about the reduction in educational expenditure, the withdrawal of funds can now be clearly refuted and have been refuted from the opposition benches as well. Allow me to say in detail about the specific issue of some areas, on two broad issues. The first question concerns whether the budgetary discussion at the spring session of the Parliament is timely, necessary, good or not. Congressman György Szilágyi said that work is rarely good, so let's see if the 2016 budget stands on its feet or not. President József Tobias, Member, said that the budget for 2016 had failed because it had to be amended. Indeed, the budget needs to be amended, but not because real economic figures, public finances, could not be kept, but because the performance of the Hungarian economy, growth and employment figures, were more favourable than previously assumed, and this represents additional tax revenue for the budget. The amendment of the 2016 draft budget law before the Honourable Parliament will allow a number of new expenditures to be made, new investments to be made, or the public education system to receive additional resources, in addition to the reduction of public debt and the maintenance of the general government deficit. So I think that the experience of the last year shows that a stable, predictable budget can be drawn up, and this budget in 2016 would not only be worse than we had previously assumed, but it is quite the opposite, it is much more stable, it is a better budgetary situation than we saw last year at this time. I think this one year is also proof that it is possible and appropriate to draw up a budget during the spring session. Let me also mention that the budgetary discussion at the spring session strengthens stability, predictability and predictability, and there is a sufficient reserve to prevent possible risks in both 2016 and 2017. So I think that previous budget planning is proven. The benefits are clear to all, possible disadvantages and potential risks can be avoided by means of reserves. The other overall point I would like to make concerns the economic policy curve and the budget curve. [[15.30]] Here there have been allegations that a momentary budget is being made, not to see what direction the government is planning in later years. Well, in relation to these allegations, I would first like to note that the draft budget law contains, mutatis mutandis, the figures for 2017, but it also includes a macroeconomic outlook for public finances by 2020. This outlook builds on the economic policy of strengthening the economy primarily by strengthening growth and employment, and this stable basis, this stable economy, makes it possible to achieve tax reductions and additional expenditures such as those seen in the 2017 budget. I cannot interpret from this approach the opinions that there are now budgeting, the long-term strategy is not visible, because the last six years have demonstrated the correctness of the longer-term strategy, the last six years have shown that economic policy has been able to improve macroeconomic figures at the same time, it has kept the general government deficit low, it has been able to reduce public debt, it has achieved substantial economic growth, and, moreover, this economic policy, I think, has led to very significant progress for families and the population in a number of areas, and we can also see this in 2017. In this context, allow me to say a few words about education. In addition to the figures, namely that there is a surplus of HUF 270 billion here in the draft budget for next year, I must say that, as the Vice-President mentioned, it is also worth looking at the GDP-related figures. Thank God, Hungarian GDP has increased nominally by 19 percent over the last five years - again, I say facts. We see an increase of 8.8 percent between 2010 and 2015, i.e. in addition to a very significant nominal GDP growth, for example, the expenditure on education has increased nominally; there is no doubt that there has been an increase in GDP, real GDP or nominal GDP compared to an area's expenditure. But I think this is a positive process, because it shows that the growth of the economy has been very strong. We see some negative examples in Europe - including social spending - of what a problem it is that the state spends less on social expenditure. Yeah, because we're spending less money on unemployment. And yes, in many countries in Europe, GDP has not only increased but has decreased - I am thinking of the Mediterranean countries - and in these countries, the decline in GDP has been accompanied by an increase in unemployment, for example, a drastic increase in social expenditure. Therefore, I do not think that we can waive what has happened to GDP itself, economic growth, when assessing expenditure on an area related to GDP. Returning to the field of education, the facts of the past years show that there has been growth every year, and we are now seeing an increase in the 2017 budget, which, based on the performance of the economy, also represents a substantial increase in real terms, in terms of GDP, from 2016 to 2017. As far as education institutions are concerned, there have indeed been a number of changes in the field of public education and a number of changes are expected. These changes also apply to the organization of the Klebelsberg Institutional Centre and also apply to changes in the tasks of the state, government and local authorities. What I would like to say in this respect, however, is that, if the Parliament approves the 2017 budget framework, organisational changes can be implemented without amending the budget law. There is no doubt that a change in tasks between municipalities and the state is also required by law, but this must be done primarily in the specialist laws, which are expected to be negotiated in the near future. As far as higher education expenditure is concerned, I can repeat again that there is a significant increase in resources from 2016 to 2017. And what I think is true of the whole education system, apart from the fact that the figures show a significant increase in 2017, the government's actions so far have been aimed at improving the quality of education in the first place, adapting the nature of education to the needs of the economy, focusing on the fact that all the young people, all the children who leave the educational institutions, have real knowledge that can be used in life. So I do not see that it is a purely budgetary question of how educational expenditures are going, but I see that the budget is adapted to the government's ambition to have quality education for people leaving school, not merely to obtain a diploma, but to have students with real knowledge that can be used in life. This is why there has been a major change in the field of public education, such as the transformation of the vocational training system, the development of dual vocational training or the setting up of training courses in the field of higher education that are close to the needs of the economy, for example, in the technical field. I think that we can see a lot of positive examples in this area, but there are no doubt that there are tasks ahead of us, and that the resources for the implementation of these tasks are set out in the draft budget for next year. Speaking of GDP-related expenditure in culture, I can say, once again on the basis of international data, that Hungary's cultural spending is outstanding among the EU Member States and that there are not only investment surpluses among these cultural expenditures, for example, the Art Academy's spending includes not only a comprehensive renovation of the historic building next year's draft budget, but, yes, a number of additional resources are also available for professional programmes. We are not talking about a surplus of 4-5 billion in the cultural area, but of 60-70 billion forints. Congressman György Szilágyi drew attention to the state's operating expenditure by considering that operating expenditure is increasing. Again, I'm asking you to look specifically at where there is an increase in expenditure. If we look at the institutional system, I can only repeat Minister Mihály Varga's words: we expect savings of HUF 32 billion from the transformation of government and ministry institutions. This is not technically included in the draft budget for next year by reducing budget expenditure, but by imposing a payment obligation, i.e. the institutions from which the conversion results in savings, the said item must be paid into the central budget. It is true that there are institutions where expenditure increases. But why? Because at district government offices, county government offices, the government proposed a wage increase. So let's see why the numbers change. I think that if they change because of wage increases, if we are talking about wage increases that have coverage in the budget, it is a positive thing to increase the spending of individual state institutions. Supporting sports. I think that Mr Szilágyi is banging open doors with many comments. In the field of outdoor sports parks, there is a new item in the budget for next year, with a surplus of HUF 2.5 billion. I must also say that the budget expenditure of national sports centres is not decreasing, but is increasing. If we look, Mr President, at the approved budget for 2016 and the 2017 plan, then expenditure will increase, for example, for the maintenance of the institutions, for example, for the maintenance of the upcoming classrooms and schools, the draft budget law for next year will contain a surplus of HUF 2 billion. I think that these expenditures are strengthening mass sport, but there is also a clear fact that there are significant resources to support competition sport in the budget for next year. I would not make a sharp distinction between competition and mass sports, because I think that young people need role models to start sport. [[Interjection in Jobbik's ranks: Let's say, Viktor Orbán. Defiance in Jobbik's ranks.]] The congressman also highlighted the gym and training programme. Yes, domestic resources are available in 2017 at a rate similar to 2016. [[15.40]] At the same time, it is also possible to finance these objectives from the European Union programme, the so-called EFOP programme, and specifically the operational programme includes funding for the construction of gymnasiums. So if we combine EU funds with domestic funds, we can calculate by increasing resources. Finally, with regard to VAT fraud, I have to say once again that the proposals made by the Member have been largely incorporated in the budget proposal for next year and in the underlying proposals for measures, because I think that we are looking at the extension and amendment of the successful EKAER system and of the online cash register system, which could result in further VAT whitening in 2017, i.e. additional revenue. We are also looking at additional measures, such as the extension of online invoicing. It is true that VAT fraud is present in Hungary, as well as in many countries of Europe and the world, but Hungarian and international statistics show that in recent years we have managed to reduce this rate, we have managed to obtain revenues that are available for public spending, and the 2017 budget proposal goes further along this path. Finally, if I have launched the budget with comprehensive ideas, let me conclude with a comprehensive thought, namely: once again, the criticism that the budget is opaque, the transparency does not improve, if any change is made by the government, it will only make the situation worse. I find it difficult to face these criticisms because there is no doubt that the quality of a budget report can always be improved. But when operational and accumulation expenses are clearly separated and the proposal clearly shows how much the state spends on operation, how much it spends on development, I find it difficult to interpret these criticisms. Why was this presentation carried out? Because in many European countries, the general economic practice has followed that the state spends as much money on its operation as its revenues, do not spend more. If there is a shortage, the gap can only arise in investments, because investments increase economic growth and employment, and in this respect economically different expenditure than current expenditure. With this 2017 budget bill, the government shows that the state's expenditure in 2017 is sufficient, sufficient for its operation, they also make use of the revenue for investments, the State does not make use of current revenues, but also makes use of them for investments. And indeed, in addition to revenue, it intends to make additional investments in order to increase growth, employment and improve quality of life, at a level of 2,4 per cent, which is acceptable to Europe. Thank you so much for listening. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-05-11-62	Thank you very much. We will continue with the preliminary speakers: Mr József Kovács, Member of the Fidesz. Here you go.
u2016-05-11-63	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen of the State Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, I think that it is a joy and highlight for all of us that the draft budget for 2017 ahead is a budget that can ensure that all Hungarians can make sure that they can make one move forward next year. Hungary, in particular, Fidesz-KDNP's policy so far is stable, so the government can provide additional resources for several disciplines in the budget compared to 2016. Thanks to these, the 2017 budget - which has been said many times, but this cannot be stressed enough - can count and plan an additional HUF 270 billion in education, HUF 167 billion in health, HUF 155 billion in social security and welfare expenditure, and HUF 66 billion in culture. As you can see, the 2017 budget is available on a hundred billion-dollar scale in the fields of health, education or even culture. However, we should also mention that unfortunately this has not always been the case. The Health Insurance Fund balance was negative between 2002 and 2010 - at the time I was a hospital manager - with the exception of two years, and for three consecutive years the deficit exceeded HUF 300 billion per year. In 2010, we were not only left with a huge budget deficit, but we also found health care as a whole in ruins, and we had to face some 130 billion forints of current debt. Consolidation, i.e. the debt of hospitals, has been settled in several rounds practically every year. However, the ruins are still being cleaned up. After 2010, long-awaited developments could have started, for example, in the health sector of around 500 billion. In particular, hospital infrastructure was renewed from more than HUF 322 billion, HUF 104 billion was available for asset development, and we were able to spend money on various upgrades in basic care and outpatient care. Fidesz-KDNP wants to continue its journey in 2010 and to improve the quality of care and the material and moral appreciation of healthcare workers. In this context, wage arrangements for healthcare workers can continue. In addition to the above, there is a strong emphasis on screening and prevention programmes. As proposed by the 2017 budget, in particular, according to the budget of the Health Insurance Fund in 2017, the above can be implemented with a budget of approximately HUF 2.1 billion in expenditure and HUF 15.5 billion in basic care as an additional resource. This appropriation is intended to cover commitments remaining to be settled from previous years in accordance with Article 21 of the Financial Regulation. This appropriation is intended to cover a total of HUF 746 billion, which includes a surplus of HUF 25.9 billion, in addition to transfers within the article and between the articles, as a result of structural changes, levellings and improvements. A surplus of HUF 10 billion will be available next year to cover expenditure related to hbcs revision and rental. The cost of high-value pharmaceutical therapies is also increasing gradually, with a budget of HUF 5 billion being covered in the 2017 budget. The provision forecast for healing-preventive care increases by about HUF 10 billion compared to the previous year. The special reserve forecast of the drug register is HUF 8 billion, and the medical aid fund has HUF 4.8 billion in surplus by 2017, so we can talk about a total of HUF 12.8 billion. Ladies and gentlemen, In Hungarian health care, the ruins are being cleaned up, but there are also developments, wage arrangements are starting and continuing, but we know that there is a great deal of work to be done. I must point out that I hope that health care will be one of the winners of the budget submitted next year, so I ask that you support this budget. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-05-11-64	Thank you very much, Congressman. Congressman Sallai R. Benedek, representative of LMP, is next. Here you go. [[15.50]]
u2016-05-11-65	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, First of all, if you will allow me, I would like to respond very briefly to the words of our fellow Member, Mr Hoffman. I promised my mother that I would always be respectful of my fellow Member, because my mother said that the best books were written by our fellow Member, so I do not want to be disrespectful. However, the criticism of how the opposition listened to the Minister's head, obviously, may give rise to a bit of criticism on our part, because it is not good to be under the same roof as he has said and to draw conclusions. So it is better not to be under the same roof when it says the ideas of success and hurrahoptimism about the budget and the implementation of the budget. The other thing I would like to remind my fellow Member: I do not know how he is at the KDNP faction office, but he certainly knows that most factions have television, and you can watch the broadcast and you can hear what is happening. [[Grumble in the ranks of Fidesz.]] It's true that there's nowhere else in the country to do that, because under your administration, it's been banned on public television. Obviously, it's a kind of feedback from the representatives of your work. Thank you, Mr Pócs, for your interventions. I don't know how he's doing with the ETUSZ, and the charges, and the KFT at his address, I think that's what he should be dealing with. But I will continue to speak. One more thing that is very, very important when we talk about budgets. My fellow Member has said that due to his party, they always look back two thousand years. I think this is a bit of a screw-up because if you looked forward to a year or tried to look forward to five or ten years, you might choose a strategically different direction in some of the things than you are at the moment, as it is in the budget. I will give you concrete examples of this, if you will allow me, because there are some tasks I see missing. I didn't want to criticize what was in it, I wanted to talk about what wasn't in it, which hurts me very, very much. Mr. Secretary of State may know where the 240 billion that were planned to be taken out of land privatisation was hidden, but I couldn't find it anywhere in the budget, but I found a line that they wanted to spend $2 billion from the ground fund to buy land and 10 billion in the field of industrial parks. However, we do not know what will happen to the 240 billion that FM has communicated as revenue in relation to land privatisation. We would obviously like to know this, since the Constitutional Court has decided specifically that the NFA Act is 15th. It can only be used in accordance with Article 4 of the Treaty, which narrows the possibilities of using this resource only to strengthen small and medium-sized farmers and family farms. I do not see any revenue in the budget lines of the FM. I'm looking forward to seeing what happened or what happens to this money because it doesn't show up anywhere. The other thing I would like to draw attention to is that although I am criticising FM more than once, I would like to express my support for them now, or perhaps in addition to the Prime Minister's Office, because the news has come to the attention of many of them that the results of the national agri-environmental programmes have recently been announced in the last week. As it turns out, it is essentially a matter of 452 billion requests received, and the Prime Minister's Office has planned 150 billion for the entire cycle, although EU funds would have allowed them to go up to 300 billion. At the moment, a terriblely bad and professionally totally offensive decision has been made, as there are very, very many ploughers among the beneficiaries, many large farmers over thousands of hectares have been included, while in many cases the same decisions have completely excluded those classic target areas, such as the maintenance of hostage protection lawns, but in Békés county we also see specific areas where protected areas were not fully included in the zonaly. This resource clearly seems to be scarce, and it would be possible to provide a background, either from the budget or from other sources, with the necessary self-power to do so. In my opinion, this would be very necessary. Let me draw attention to what I also think is that FM and I are on the same path at the moment, and that is the lack of support for irrigation. Again, I do not see that there is a substantial resource for this, in line with the promises of earlier years. We can say that the situation in Hungary is very, very worsening if we look at the world average, either way, but we also have very, very bad irrigation areas compared to the EU average. I think that the EU average is 8.7 percent of agricultural land, and the Hungarian average is 1.4 percent, which means that at the moment, the irrigated area is almost less than 100,000 hectares, which was more than 450 thousand hectares in 1975. Let it be that at that time it was 450 thousand hectares, but on the basis of the trend at that time it was thought that by 2000 it would be 830 thousand hectares, and on the other hand it would appear that we are at the order of 100 thousand hectares, even though on 200 thousand hectares it would be possible to irrigate without further watering if it had the right background, and for 317 thousand hectares the infrastructure would be able to provide it. The implementation of this will not be done if no one adds money, but the FM always talks about the importance of this every year. There is a need to provide substantial budgetary resources for this, and EU funds do not see the financial background of this, and therefore, if the government is serious about spending resources on the competitiveness of agriculture, it is inevitable that substantial progress will be made now. I hope that the leaders of the FM may support such an amendment, since their sectoral objectives would be clearly supported by such a measure. And speaking of water and water infrastructure, it is also worth talking about the fact that since the Ministry of Interior got the water management sector, it has not been possible to talk about water management since then because there is no water management. Since then, there has been disaster control, and it can be said that this is about what I used to do in an educational example, that if a volcano is plugged in with a concrete stopper, it can be said that it is safe until the volcano is ready to erupt. At present, this is our water system: it is spent year after year, and as long as there is no large water, there is no problem with this, but once the large water comes, it is completely inadequate to create flood safety in Hungary. Leaving this without resources is very irresponsible, and it will certainly not be better to spend 100 billion in a war situation than to consider, with a preventive approach, making progress in this regard. You probably know that, but I would like to draw your attention to the fact that about 112 billion cubic meters of water are entering the territory of the country and 117 billion are leaving the territory of Hungary. This means that rather than farming with water, rather than trying to keep our water supply and use it as much as possible for the more efficient use of our natural resources, flood protection in the system inherited from the mid-1800s specifically helps the flow, so that these waters go away as quickly as possible. The fact that we are trying to store water as much as possible is that we are finally moving forward the further development of the Vásárhely plan in substance, we will not be able to do so without taking national resources. Not only from climate change, but also from other climate factors in Hungary, it is increasingly apparent that the average temperature has increased over the last hundred years, but the precipitation has decreased. Accordingly, if our capacity to produce food is basically a matter of national security and we want to keep it, we need to make a substantial contribution to this, and this cannot be done without professional, good, sustainable water management. Unfortunately, we do not see any resources for this in the budget, there is no real possibility that all the reservoirs of the VTT will be completed according to the original schedule; it is not apparent that there is a plan along the Danube to deal with the water scarcity problems of the Danube-Tisza; it is not apparent that there is money for the deadland rehabilitation; accordingly, this area will again suffer a serious disadvantage, which is certainly not good for the Hungarian countryside in the long term. I would also suggest transferring substantial resources to this. If we are beyond irrigation and water management, we need to talk about rural infrastructure beyond agriculture and agriculture, since these are basically linked to rural employment. I recently had the opportunity to ask Minister Seszták how the revenue generated from the excise duty generated by the purchase of fuel by Hungarian taxpayers was generated, while at the same time the revenue generated in connection with the operation of the road network was generated. As Minister Seszták replied, we have collected approximately HUF 2617 billion in the last five years alone, compared with a total of HUF 763 billion and 297 billion, i.e. not entirely EUR 1000 billion, for road maintenance and road network development. This means that, looking back over the last few years, one third of it will be used to keep our rural roads viable. I would like to draw the government's attention to this problem because the centralizing effort that is felt in all respects in the government's work - whether it is access to health care, whether it is access to public administration or even access to cultural life - is increasingly demanding travel from the rural population. Since the closure of schools and the closure of a pile of public institutions is now only possible in larger cities, or often only in cities with county seats or county rights, it would be essential to have substantial resources for the renovation of three-four-digit roads. The Hungarian Road Kht. According to his opinion, 600 billion is missing in order to change the quality of our road network, which represents more than 50 percent of our road network. It is not possible to say that transport is not important; basically, it will be a basic condition of going to work. After all, one of the results of a failed rural policy is that employment in small villages will cease. The major estate policy they are pursuing is the land concentration policy that they are implementing, and even agricultural employment is being taken away from the villages. So what we need more is daily commuting to work for people. This is done by a fraction of the government's use for the road maintenance that it collects from this source, obviously I think it's unsustainable. [[16.00]] And speaking of rural infrastructure, it is obviously also important what has been mentioned here before, because, if you allow me, my fellow Member, Rózsa Hoffmann, in many cases we get completely different information. Which may be because I saw him reading the Hungarian Newspaper and I saw something else. But basically, the financing of rural municipalities is in a very bad situation. They can perform very, very few of their own tasks, there is no possibility for smaller settlements to achieve any meaningful development. Everything in small settlements now depends on their relationship with the relevant pro-government representative, whether they can get a proposal from EU funds and do something for the settlements. The fundamental idea of the local government, which we read in the Charter of the European Union on local governments, will be taken out of their hands if we do not leave the basic conditions to provide important improvements for the local community. Therefore, in my opinion, and with great respect, I ask for your support for this because, as individual representatives, you are present in almost every Hungarian region where these small settlements suffer, it would be very important to have substantial resources here. I am pleased to announce that there is once again a pro-government motion that we can support or I am happy to support. Our fellow Member, István, submitted a proposal amending the legislation on the salaries of small-scale mayors. With the small flaw in beauty that, once again, originally, it was proposed that this could only be done to the municipalities on its own initiative, but if the pro-government endeavour is to be a central budgetary resource for the settlement of these, I can assure you that we will have the support for this. All we are asking is that we try to change the unblessed state in which we have put small town leaders, through source insurance and by ensuring the legal environment as widely as possible. And I'm still at the small settlements. This morning, I had the opportunity to win a lawsuit against the MVH again, and I need you to give me the details of the playground scandal, which was the 145 municipalities from which the European Union Anti-Fraud Office demanded repayment for abuse, which you provided with public funds to make this happen. But the problem with this whole theft story is that rural small areas have become the losers of it. After all, someone stole the money that could have been spent on leisure programs, creating motion culture parks, once in a lifetime, for such a small settlement. Someone stole that. The extra money the government gave had to be returned to the EU, so that money was gone and the small settlements were there with nothing but a few rotting pine pieces that were billed dearly. Accordingly, in joining my fellow Member, Szilágyi, my express request would be that Community sport, community spaces, motion culture development playgrounds should be spent as much as possible, because any replacement of what has been missing here in these small settlements in recent years would be absolutely necessary. With a hussar cut, I'd turn to another area, towards the environment. After all, the continuing failure of Fidesz-KDNP governance in recent years has clearly been environmental protection. It is not just how the institutional system has been destroyed, but in more and more cases it is apparent that the remaining institutional system raises very, very many questions, as the current transformation, the termination of OKTVF, the division of district office and government office to the two-tier administration basically assumes that then there will be basically environmental professionals working in all districts. But there's no source for that. At the moment, the closure of OKTVF in the budget is planned, but there is no indication of how the possibility of expanding these professionals and strengthening the team of professionals will be achieved. The cases are in order. Here you are defending the defenseless views of how you could get a permit, say, this four-hatarian Balaton privatisation, when someone turned the Natura 2000 habitat into a luxury port, that they could get a hotel building permit in Villánykövesd in an area where they had to destroy a protected plant stock with a value of millions, and all of this basically lacks a professional background. This requires substantial resources, just as there is a great need for an adequate professional background and an appropriate tool system throughout the institutional system. It may not have been overlooked that in the past week and a half, the international report that pointed out that due to the effects of air pollution values and limit values in Hungary is the second place in the deaths related to air pollution diseases. This statistics are extremely sad and shows why we have not spent significantly more money in recent years on the monitoring system on which PM10 or small particulate contamination would otherwise be possible to measure. As you know, Hungary has been under infringement proceedings for many years, which is not taken seriously by anyone because a lot of other countries have the same infringement proceedings, and therefore they think that this cost can be saved. At the same time, if you look at Hungary's leading role in a number of cancers at the moment, it would certainly be possible to think that the prevention of all these tasks and the provision of related costs are essential in order to make substantial progress in order to increase environmental safety. In the same way, partly because of civil organizational activity and partly because of other factors, the issue of managing the Danube has largely stopped. This is affected by the budget at one level. There is a blasphemous state of affairs in connection with an international legal decision that concerns the issue of a water escape system in Bős-Nagymaros, which is not partly built. This is that, in practice, for the second or third year now, there is no monitoring system on the Danube that could continuously monitor those effects, which, in a future legal procedure, could adequately support Hungary's specific damage to the construction of the power plant in Bős. Earlier in the year, there was a budget for this, and now there hasn't been any money in the last year, and there's no money in the current one. That would be justified, too. Obviously, there is also a fundamental need to talk about financing nature conservation and environmental protection. After all, János Áder presented to the government the importance of environmental protection and the tasks of fulfilling international commitments in a very high quality and beautiful presentation yesterday. However, there is no substantial budget line available to carry out these tasks. I told you yesterday, and I do not want to repeat the obligations of nearly two dozen international environmental and nature protection agreements on which we have not spent any money for years. Both the country and your government have had very good strategies to protect biodiversity, the national environmental programme, the national climate change strategy and the adaptation or adaptation strategy, but for years there has been no substantial funding in the budget. The fact that the accounts are made with high-quality documents and then no one is doing anything about the implementation is clearly not manageable. Nor can it be treated that they always want to handle everything at the moment when it causes the greatest trouble. Over the past year and a half, it seemed to me that they had learned this lesson, since they received insight from the costs of handling the Perfumed Road Poison Places. However, costs related to the Damage Prevention Fund are again not included in the environmental allocation with a substantial item. There are nearly a hundred other pollution deposits in the country such as Scent Road, of which up to 20-30 may pose a potential risk to environmental safety. It is essential to prevent and manage all this and to dispose of the poisons in order to protect the health of our citizens, but once again the budget does not contain any budget lines. And if we are talking about financing nature conservation, whether national resources are not in place or not, then it is also worth talking about how the government can help you to get other resources into the country. [[16.10]] At the moment, Hungary is relatively effective, say, on the European Union's nature reserves, such as LIFE, LIFE +, but for years alone, only government actors have received the necessary self-power that should be ensured in the context of falling EU support in order to make progress in the funding system. This would be in the country's primary interest, since the resources that are not directly available to the country, but which come in directly from Brussels as a source of tender, could also enrich the Hungarian budget through various traffic taxes and other charges, through public burdens, and the cost we provide for the tendering self-force in this case would be well paid off. And now there's very, very little and low costs, and it would be good to increase that. In the same way, every year we try to achieve what the first Orbán Cabinet has done to support green civil society organisations in the environment and nature conservation, because the last time we had the Orbán Cabinet was during Minister Béla Turi-Kovács's ministry, that the well-known Hungarian green movement was managed from more than 1 billion forints throughout the country. This amount now amounts to HUF 63 million between the budget lines, which is obviously humiliating and making the work of most organisations impossible. Now that it was birds and trees' day this week, and we have also remembered it here in Parliament, it would be worth helping the organisations involved in this, in any case, in such a way that they can at least carry out their basic tasks. And if we are beyond environmental tasks, then my fellow Member who spoke before me spoke about the health situation. I would just like to join in one thing that has been said, as several pro-government representatives have mentioned the system of family support, the efforts to encourage childbearing, even though it has not been ready for years to provide basic assistance and support for maternity measures. And many times it is not that billions are needed here, but it is simply that there is no intention of providing the right background for women who want to have a baby or for women who are expecting a baby. However, another childishness about childbirth and birth is very, very dependent on the experience of the first birth experience and the experience of waiting, and this could create many, many opportunities. Let me tell you that there was no substantial source of protection training, although there would be a lot of opportunities to transform this system. It is still unacceptable that, while your government has made it possible to have a legal background in Hungary for giving birth outside the institution with professional assistance, it is still not possible to finance this social security system to date. It's like women who don't want to have birth in hospitals are not Hungarian citizens, and their families don't seem to pay social security. In Hungary, the possibility for the government to contribute to this type of funding and receive the same birth-related social security support that it would otherwise receive at the hospital in an institution would provide substantial assistance in the maintenance of the created midwifery. This is also important, because if you want to manage money wisely, you need to see that the costs of these are significantly lower and that most women who are parents at home are thinking about having children again, so their productivity is significantly better in order to maintain their birth mood. The Dutch, who are said to have been sent from Scotland to the continent because of their cheapness, are characterised by a home delivery rate of over 50 percent, because this could be a significantly more cost-effective and practical system. To this end, it is clearly worth considering why, if something works well as a practice in Western Europe, it is not possible to give a little more help to implement it in Hungary. It is also a family-friendly measure to contribute to the improvement of the child-bearing spirit that is fully awaited by the social support of obstetrical prenatal care. Protective women's training and responsibilities in this area have also been waiting for a long time, not only are they unable to manage the preparatory tasks related to out-of-institutional birth with specialist assistance, but they are not able to perform preventive tasks related to the protection of the foetus in many cases either, because it should be accompanied by an appropriate background and a training background. The creation of travelling screening stations would also be very, very important, since in Hungary's break-down areas, where the small village structure hits the people with the most public and public services withdrawal, it would be very, very helpful to have the opportunity to develop in this respect. During pregnancy, the provision of food stamps would help pregnant women, since the financial problem in Hungary is not uncommon. And it would also be essential for the government to use substantial resources to support smoking education. There has been no source for these for years; we have tabled amendments in this regard, and I think that if someone is serious about helping families and wanting to improve their family attitude towards birth, then these measures can be done more than with a large poster or audio poster that we are seeing at the moment. Furthermore, it would be essential to offer HIV screenings to all pregnant women; and the opening of the B + in Hungary and its introduction would require resources, because this is clearly justified by international experience and would allow this to be necessary. To this day, although I think that it is precisely a subject in which we share the same values, there is no guidance counselor in hospitals and there is absolutely no the background to the transfer of the background to the parent women. There would be a great need for this type of counselor to be placed in all obstetrics as far as possible in order to provide assistance to parent women. The completion of a neonatal resuscitation course in each maternity ward would also be justified for 10 people. These could have a very high impact at a minimum cost and could be very helpful to these institutions. Again, we are talking about a small training programme, which could have a substantial impact on ten million items. Special newborn rescuers are in a very large shortage in the country and, at the same time, the risks associated with this have increased greatly in the country. So the creation of a national support network for newborn rescuers would also be a measure that could help the safety of fetus and infants, which would be fundamentally expected to be achieved everywhere. And this, I think, may be even more justified in relation to hospital developments in order to ensure safe access to prepared healthcare facilities for women who are parents. The national network of birth homes was promised many years ago, and at the time of the adoption of legislation on this issue, preparatory studies and the launch of a model programme would be at least justified in three rural locations. These birth homes would create an alternative birth opportunity where the expansion of midwifery would open up and thus create opportunities throughout the country. This would be particularly important in areas where demand has arisen in recent years and would also be of great help to related costs. It would cost pennies if the investigation of maternal deaths could be considered methodologically, since Hungary alone, unlike Europe, has increased maternal mortality in recent years. And unfortunately, the Hungarian health care does not want to face this very much, the last time it happened in Miskolc, practically the agency in this area found that everyone acted responsibly, and everyone did their best, and nobody was to blame. I do not want to blame anyone, nor do I think that there is a fault for a nurse or a doctor, but the fact that there may be a need for improvement in the system; that the possibility of investigation in this regard... - as is the case in those countries where such problems are successfully faced, because everywhere else, there is a positive result, because only the development of the possibilities of hand hygiene in this area brings very, very much results. The possibility of data collection and disclosure should be increased in relation to obstetric interventions. At the moment, we do not retain the background of data on caesarean section and birth start-ups, anesthetic mode and indication, the proportion of dam cuts, although these data collections could basically greatly help if tasks related to the prevention of these tasks could be made public by hospital. All these improvements are basically, I think they could support the efforts that you wish to make in order to have children, and I would help in their worth. [[16.20]] Last but not least, I reviewed the parts of the budget concerning the Ministry of Agriculture. I must say that although many people think that I am always attacking the Ministry of Agriculture in everything, that is not true, I would like you to have significantly more resources. In principle, I do not consider sufficient resources for the operation of the National Food Chain Safety Office. At present, their control options are very, very narrow, low numbers, and the office should be technically developed. At the moment, only 10 percent of the Hungarian crop area can be checked, and the investigation always results. The possibility of testing should be extended and the resources clearly needed for FM to do so should be available. The stud farms and the maintenance of native Hungarian horse breeds have resources in there, but they are not sufficient, as conservation tasks are constantly being imposed on them year after year, and breeding associations are becoming more and more difficult. Therefore, I felt that there was a particular need to increase costs and that it would be useful to have a background for this through redeployment. I do not fully know the fate of the Department of Agriculture for Rural Development, but press meetings have been about whether this or the fate of the Herman Otto Institute is uncertain. However, I must say that this year's area payments show that there is insufficient staffing, that significantly greater human capacity must be made available to farmers to receive the support they deserve during the autumn agricultural work period and before the spring. Indeed, the problems that took place this year, even though the current application of the common agricultural policy with greening only started in the first year, have often made everyday agricultural tasks impossible. This will certainly not be a problem for the big ones again, and it will not be a problem for them, who have a significant background in capital, but for those who practically finance autumn and spring work in their ten-acre area. I also lacked the resources of the national park directorates. There, too, I felt that much more work needed to be done. For years, enlargement opportunities have not been available to increase the number of days in the field for staff working there. The fact that, especially after releasing Natura 2000 sites from its hands, the government and private property will be created, with continuous monitoring of both protected areas and Natura 2000 habitats, would, in principle, greatly help to maintain Hungary's natural values. In relation to the significant part of what I have said, I and my group have made an amendment motion and we ask that the Government consider at least the possibility of accepting them on a substantive basis. In all cases, we have also identified the resources from which this can be provided, and accordingly, if their support were available in the next year's budget, it would help to support the previously and current direction of government efforts as a whole. To do this, I ask for the help and support of my fellow members of the Government. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2016-05-11-66	Thank you very much for the honourable and meaningful contribution of the Member, on which I have only one comment to make. The migration habits of the friendly peoples are obviously a category of folk folklore in the speech, not a political category; people travelling from north to southeast... Now, however, it is not the migration of peoples, but the speeches by the government's ministers of state. The Secretary of State György Czerván is the first among these.
u2016-05-11-67	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Allow me to respond to a few things. Of course, I will not try to do anything, especially at the speed that Congressman Sallai spoke, because thank God, it does not belong to me much of the topics that the Member has raised. But let me respond to some, after the name of the Ministry of Agriculture has been mentioned several times, and although to me, how shall I put it, I am surprised, however, pleased to see that the name of the Ministry has also been mentioned in a positive sense. Though I do recall that you should beware of the Greeks, even if they bring gifts. With regard to irrigation, I think the congressman is banging open doors. Indeed, we are on the same string in the sense that we want to increase the volume of irrigated areas in Hungary. Just a few minutes ago, I received an e-mail about the publication of the rural development programme for the development of the agricultural water management sector in the order of 50 billion. So I think that if we can make use of the opportunities, we can move forward in this area. Let me also talk about some of the things that were not mentioned in the speech, but in my opinion it is a very important agricultural issue. It's a matter of support. We can basically separate three types of agricultural subsidies and rural development subsidies. The first type includes direct or first pillar grants. This is 100% EU funding, which is not included in the budget, nor in the FM budget. The second type is the application grants included in the rural development programme or otherwise the co-financed grants. These are handled by the Prime Minister's Office. These include, for example, support for irrigation development. To a large extent, it is financed from EU funds, in a smaller part, by some 15% from domestic sources, from the domestic budget. The third main type of aid is subsidies or national agricultural subsidies financed by the domestic budget at 100%. These, on the other hand, are included in the draft budget for 2017. Of these, I would like to point out that the subsidies under the heading of earlier expenditure and income subsidies have been converted into national agricultural subsidies. This is a formal change, but it expresses the essence of the fact that it is a 100% domestic budgetary resource. On these lines, we also aim to support sectors that are not directly supported by the Union. I am thinking primarily of animal breeding and gardening, with a view to strengthening competitiveness and increasing the population-reservability of the countryside. I think that it is very important that the budget for 2017 is HUF 77.6 billion, under the heading of national agricultural support under the programme "More jobs in agriculture." This is more than HUF 2 billion than it was in 2016. This enabled us to plan the so-called transitional national support rate of HUF 26 billion by 2017. This is how we can support, among other things, the cattle, milk and sheep sectors, as well as the tobacco sector, which has been treated as stepmoms in the EU, with HUF 5 billion. The so-called soft-market sectors include the pig and poultry sectors. We are also trying to give priority to these, under the heading animal welfare support, because that is what EU legislation makes possible from our national budget. I would like to mention that while the poultry welfare aid was only HUF 4 billion in 2010, it will increase to HUF 12 billion, so we will triple it and introduce a new title under the heading of animal welfare support for flocks of chickens producing table eggs and breeding poultry species. That's, like, a $1.2 to $1.3 billion bonus. The situation in the pig sector is similar to that in poultry. Here are the animal welfare terms and titles. In 2010, there was an additional HUF 6 billion in pig welfare and animal welfare support for fattening, and by now it will also increase to nearly three times, to HUF 17.7 billion, by introducing animal welfare support for the animals for fattening as well. Animal health aid is also increasing. Here, too, we would like to help the dairy sector to support the health costs of pregnant heifers by supporting vaccination. What I would also like to mention is that we are also trying to help farmers' work and their financing problems with preferential credit programmes. We were able to plan a 60 per cent interest subsidy rate among the subsidies, and there will be aid schemes such as they were in relation to last year's ice damage, precisely in relation to the current frost damage in spring. In addition, we are developing schemes to provide full interest subsidies and legal aid to SMEs in the milk and pig sector. [[16.30]] In Hungarian, only capital will have to be repaid through the Agrarian Széchenyi-card current account credit, the MFB agricultural-forget facility credit programme, the MFB food-industrial-forget facility loan programme and the MFB plant-forget facility credit programmes. I would mention, I would just like to mention, not to mention, that we will continue to support dried fodder, high-quality spice pepper production, rabbit farming, bee-keeping vehicles and orderly market production. The pig strategy program continues, our national compensation fund works, and for this spring frost damage, I can say that 24 billion HUF will be available. The development of the riding centre in Szilvásvárad will be completed in 2017. I am curious to say that, at the initiative of civil society organisations, we are creating a new HUF 40 million animal protection fund for the modernisation of shelters and pebbleyards. Let's continue with the. Drink milk! The programme, the school fruit scheme, the support of farmers and, of course, the EU support, direct EU support, is mentioned in the budget in addition to national subsidies, about HUF 417 billion. So I am very confident that these subsidies will help farmers, both in terms of domestic and EU resources, and that payments will also be made after this trial year, after the introduction of the new system of 15 and now only good weather and favourable market conditions and demand growth will be required. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-05-11-68	Thank you very much. Mr. Csaba Dömötör, Secretary of State, on behalf of the government. Here you go.
u2016-05-11-69	Thank you, Mr. President. Allow me to respond to an earlier speech, namely the speech by Mr Szilágyi, on sport, also because I think he rightly raised the importance of mass sport, so it is worth talking about this for a few words. In 2010, when this government took office, this country was, in many respects, an aggregator in sports habits, and the government felt it was right to launch many programmes in order to change this situation. These include compulsory physical education: from 2015 on, 1 million students became part of their regular physical activity, and they have to regularly exercise for 12 years. Of course, in order for this programme to be successful, it is essential that the institutional background is also ensured, which is why the government launched the public education development programme, which is why new swimming pools and gymnasiums are built throughout the country partly from home and, as the Secretary of State said, partly from EU sources. I would also like to mention it, because it includes the government providing sports equipment packages for nearly 1,200 schools, which shows that the emphasis is just as much on mass sport and re-education. And by the way, the Member has also generously forgotten about the Tao resources, which also significantly assists in the training of replacements. To support what I have to say with a few numbers, instead of the 24 thousand in 2011, we can count 46,000 certified athletes in 2015; as far as basketball is concerned, there are 52 thousand certified athletes instead of 28 thousand; and in the field of football this number is now 232 thousand instead of 133 thousand. This also shows a significant increase in the number of certified athletes. The efforts are not only seen by us, but also by Eurobarometer surveys: in 2009, 5 percent of Hungarians regularly played sports, today this rate is already 15 percent. I would say that much remains to be done, but the government has taken the right steps to ensure that regular exercise in Hungary is part of everyday life, and the good news is that the next year's budget will also provide adequate resources for this. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties. Ildikó Bangóné Borbély intervenes.]]
u2016-05-11-70	Thank you very much. Please, we will now return to the speakers that have been announced. In this line, Congressman Lajos Oláh, independent, can express his opinion. Here you go.
u2016-05-11-71	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, The negotiation and debate of the budget before Parliament doesn't make much sense, no matter what the opposition says, it doesn't really matter what the majority of governments will actually accept. A year ago, we said that it is not possible to adopt a sound budget on a real basis at the spring session. We do not even know the 2015 accounts, we do not know what will happen in the Hungarian economy in 2016, we do not know the state of the global economy in autumn 2016, the plans and forecasts of our economic partners for the future, even though it is more important for the Hungarian economy as a whole to say how German incomes change next year than what the Hungarian government draws on a paper. You say growth compared to the 2016 plan, but compared to the real fact, this growth will be minimal. But there is no real meaning to the budget debate either because, under your governance, the Hungarian budget law is empty and has lost its function. On the basis of the standard text of this proposal, the government can do whatever it wants, and by adopting this law, Parliament does not formally decide on the use of HUF 400 billion, but leaves it to the government in the form of various reserves. This amount is equal to the sum of all family support expenditures. On the basis of this bill, the government is free to transfer unlimited funds from anywhere, and you voted a few weeks ago to allow the government to accept any expenditure on items not included in the budget, unfunded expenditure, for the revenue of the coming years. How can the budget be justified when this year, four months after the beginning of the year, the government has tabled a 500 billion-dollar amendment to this year's budget? How can you know what you are voting on, what you are talking about when this proposal gives you dozens of institutions that the government has already announced closing? We do not know the career plans, the planned steps in the field of public education and health, but we do not know anything about them, although these are questions of interest to people today, which are worth tens of thousands of forints a month. And the government doesn't even try to answer those questions, do whatever it wants. With this being presented by the government, he clearly shows what he thinks of his own majority representatives: unfortunately, he sees you as a push-button. They say that voters have nothing to do with what happens to their money, they don't have to discuss it, they don't have to say anything about it. But look at what has become of the last year that you have given the government a free hand: a small railway in Csút, stadiums, MNB foundations, moving to the Castle, Counter-Terrorism Center, a waste of hundreds of millions of forints. Ladies and gentlemen, In addition to the general introduction, allow me to draw your attention to a few things which, as an individual representative, concern my constituency. One is the question of condominiums. Today, there is no possibility in Hungary to support the renovation of condominiums built before 1946, even though the downtown of Budapest, the World Heritage Site, would require such amounts. I have sent several letters to the Ministries, the City Council, to try to solve this with domestic or EU resources - no positive response has been received. I am very confident that there will be an opportunity, either in the budget or in a later amendment, for the condominiums before 1946 to be able to be renovated, and that if various African studies were already important to the National Bank, a preferential loan programme could be launched for the renovation of condominiums, since those who live there cannot finance this hundreds, many tens, many hundreds of millions of dollars of renovations. Maybe instead of stadiums and tao, we could spend some money on this. Erzsébet and Terézváros have a special area, this so-called party district, which is now visited by more people than the Buda Castle. This is an excellent entertainment opportunity for many people who go from Hungary, for foreigners, but for those who live there, it is often a nightmare, because it means garbage, public safety problems and noise problems. I have sent several letters to the Prime Minister, ministers, to help the Erzsébetváros municipality, in some way, to help the residents to deal with these problems; not only the local government has very limited resources, but also from central sources to help clean up, so the cleaning machines will go out at 4:30 a.m. to try to create a minimum living environment there, but also for the residents to renovate their houses, to make noiseproofing and to provide public safety. I have consulted Minister Pintér on this subject several times, who will also help with the fact that more police officers have arrived, but these police officers will be immediately eliminated in any situation, so they cannot provide a permanent solution, so there is a need for long-term, sustainable growth. [[16.40]] Erzsébetvárosi and Terézvárosi are looking forward to the fact that Péterfy Hospital's money we are talking about in terms of health care, what resources, what opportunities it will get, because it is also known to the Secretary of State that the problems in Péterfy Hospital are about the same as in all other hospitals. It would be very good if there was progress in this not only at speech level in terms of health, but also in reality. I have listened to Mr. Secretary of State's programme, and we hope that this can go forward, and we wish you much more than that, because what you have said is unfortunately not enough compared to the current state of health. I had the pleasure of spending 9 hours in the emergency room, there was a patient who arrived at 7:00 a.m. and was still there at midnight. Let us hope that this budget will try to help at least a little. We would recommend integrating tao money into the budget, as Tao money in this form is virtually a little similar to the money transferred to the foundations of the Hungarian National Bank, when public money becomes virtually private money, there is no control over this story. Let's bring him into the budget and decide what to do with the Tao money together. By the way, we made a proposal to give a forint to sports clubs only in the event that if at least one forint goes to school sports, the same goes for school sports. We'd like to be able to make progress in this, too. Mr President, For now, thank you for the opportunity, not to abuse your patience. Thank you very much.
u2016-05-11-72	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, We've almost reached a two-minute circle, when the government's two undersecretaries checked in, and according to the House rules, I have to give the floor to them. Secretary of State Peter Benő Banai, please.
u2016-05-11-73	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. I will try to be brief, but I have to recall last year's budget debate, when it was about whether or not the last year's numbers were known. Mr Lajos Oláh, I should like to draw your attention to the fact that the figures for 2015 and the data available by the end of April on the implementation of the central budget for 2016 are public. Not only are they public, not only are they accessible by anyone, but they are known by analytical organisations, the European Commission, the OECD. So you can see the numbers not only in Budapest, but also in Brussels and everywhere. We know that last year the Hungarian economy grew by 2.9 percent, and according to the EU methodology, the deficit was 2 percent. The detailed explanation can be found on the Treasury website or through the Ministry of National Economy. The second thing concerns the legitimacy of the 2016 budget. Once again, I draw attention to the fact that I consider it not a mistake, but a virtue that a budget has been made for 2016, which is stable, and in implementing it, we see that not only would there not be enough money, but that the surplus revenue from the budget will allow additional expenditure. I appreciate this amendment much more positively, while the deficit target can be maintained, the public debt will be reduced than those budget implementations - not one we saw before 2010 - where the budget for the year has remained intact, but the facts have been completely broken compared to the figures approved in the budget. From this perspective, I do not think that when the 2017 budget is drawn up, there could be risks that could not be avoided by this reserve. As regards the implementation of the budget: according to the rules in force, it is the Parliament's responsibility to set up the budget, and within the approved budgetary framework, the implementation of the budget is the government's primary responsibility. Thus, the government can take only steps, where appropriate, to carry out transfers which remain within the budgetary framework approved by the Parliament and which are authorised by the relevant laws. Therefore, there is no possibility of a derogation from the approved framework to the extent that, for example, the budget would be overturned. This is also true for transfers within the year and also for commitments beyond the year. As far as the specific points are concerned, yes, in many areas of health there is a surplus. As far as wage increases are concerned, we cannot say a specific amount yet, but what we can say is that, in accordance with the relevant laws, in accordance with the Public Finance Act, the provision is earmarked for HUF 180 billion, from which provision can be provided for the health sector or the social sector to raise wages. The specific amount is calculated on the basis of the negotiations. Once again, I can say that the government acted in accordance with the applicable law, which requires that, if an expenditure is known, but its exact amount, its exact distribution method is not known, a provision for expected expenditure must be established. I believe that the government acted responsibly when it trained those provisions for the expected expenditure in progress. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-05-11-74	Thank you very much. Secretary of State Zoltán Ónodi-Szűcs, please.
u2016-05-11-75	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, Honourable Congressman, I've been invited, I have to respond to that. It has already been said from Secretary of State Peter Banai that there is a wage negotiation going on. So yes, the government takes it seriously that this is a negotiation process. As long as we do not find out what will have budgetary implications at the end of the negotiations, we will not be able to put it in the budget. I think it's such a simple item. And the other: I was sadly listening to the story of the Péterfy Sándor Street Hospital again, but let's get this straight. I don't know a problem that this government would have created. I can do something he couldn't solve, but he inherited it from before. So the reason you're having a hard time is when you're gonna be eating me in this Parliament, because you're not gonna be able to forget something that hasn't been present in this Parliament six years ago. But I will try to meet both the government and the opposition in the future. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-05-11-76	Thank you very much. We're about to have a two-minute lap. The first speaker was Mr Sándor Czomba, Member Fidesz. Here you go.
u2016-05-11-77	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, There were questions here about the employment fund. We may all agree that public employment must be maintained where and as long as it is needed. I don't know what would have happened if the next year's budget hadn't been 340 billion in accordance with the convergence programme... this year, it would have planned 400 billion forints next year, now the actual budget is 325 billion forints compared to the planned one, then I don't know what would have happened. That's the bunny's case. If she had a hat on, if she wasn't wearing a hat, what would they have said? I think that this first sentence is the most important in this matter, and personally I, as someone who comes from a rather disadvantaged area, think that public employment has reached the level where people who can, want and can work can be called. Whether we can give meaningful work to everyone in the context of public employment is an important task for all of us in the next period. I also suggest that it is not necessarily necessary to put everyone in public employment who is there at the moment, say, with a degree, with an adequate degree, under 25 years of age, and I say another important situation: in the case of the 16-year-old population, it is particularly appropriate or appropriate to use public employment as the last tool in this case. But the need is clear. I think it is also an important issue to support exit into the competitive sphere. I would like to draw attention to the fact that this is what the job support we have just adopted is about. The public employee who is willing to quit will receive HUF 22 800 net. With regard to the amounts, just so that they do not compare 325 billion to the 16 billion that is in the NFA, but that 74 billion forints serve these purposes, which is pre-financing in June, by the way, and even the 20 billion that is vocational training. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] So in Hungarian: 110 billion HUF is available in NFA only in the following year to create jobs. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-05-11-78	Z. Carpathian Congressman Daniel, Jobbik, in two minutes.
u2016-05-11-79	Mr President, Dear House, When I pressed a button a good hour ago, on behalf of the Jobbik faction, I wished to respond to the fact that, without closing, it would lead to a draft budget so early, which was confirmed by the Secretary of State himself: a difference of 500 billion. It's a good thing this happened in a positive direction, and it's a good thing they were able to distribute it, but since external spill-over effects affect this system, what are you going to do if next year, say, a $1,200 billion minus is created, and, if necessary, you have to submit a austerity package as a result of these differences? [[16.50]] With regard to the issue of public debt, I would encourage the government to be sufficiently restrained, as they are constantly talking about a reduction in public debt. They're gonna find me if they can't find me, they're gonna create a pointer that makes that true. At the same time, according to the data of the Government Debt Management Centre, we were at 24 370 billion in March 2015, and according to the latest communication of 31 March, which I have reached, the debt of the central subsystem is HUF 25 473 billion, and we have to say that the Maastricht debt ratio is 75.3% compared to 65-70 percent of the GDP promised in your Kálmán Széll plan. Once again, according to the last available data, the increased government debt rate is HUF 25 473 billion, for which it is at least questionable to talk about a decrease. At the same time, due restraint would also be justified by the fact that this draft budget includes, if not dramatic but measurable reductions in a number of forms of social expenditure and others: it reduces orphanage, widow's pensions, also reduces the framework for disability rehabilitation benefits, and the framework for family allowances is also 1 percent lower than previously proposed. Against this background, they should, therefore, speak with sufficient restraint about that budget. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] which basically describes a dried-out farm. Thank you. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2016-05-11-80	Secretary of State Peter Benő Banai, please.
u2016-05-11-81	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Has the budget or not been established? If the government's calculations are considered by the opposition to be unfounded, since next year there may be a difference of 1000 billion, then I would like to recommend to everyone the opinion of the Fiscal Council and the SAO. In addition to the opinion of the Council and the SAO, I recommend to everyone the European Commission's forecast published on 3 May, with a deficit of 2 percent of GDP for 2017. Of course, there can be processes that neither the government, the SAO, nor the Fiscal Council, nor the European Commission, nor the OECD, no one can foresee. [[Z. Dániel Carpathian: Yes, that's what we're talking about.]] That is why next year the budget plans with reserves of more than HUF 200 billion. And as President Árpád Kovács said in his expozee, this reserve can protect the negative effects that would result from a possible lower growth or an additional cost of public debt. I think that the purpose of previous planning is precisely to strengthen stability and predictability, and I think that this objective is the previous year's practice, which has been confirmed. As regards the development of public debt, Mr President, you know precisely that when assessing the debt of a country in terms of both the real economy and the money market, the level of debt in terms of GDP, i.e. the level of economic performance, is the primary indicator. In this indicator, Hungary has been able to reduce the debt-to-GDP ratio year by year in addition to one or two EU countries since 2011. The 2017 budget proposes tax reductions to ensure additional expenditure in social, health and education areas, while reducing public debt. Finally, allow me to remind you that this can, of course, be criticised and alternative proposals can be submitted, but if I have already mentioned the 2016 budget, let me say that, in our calculations, if the proposals submitted by the Jobbik Group last year had been adopted, the deficit and therefore the public debt would have increased by HUF 776.4 billion. [[Noise, interruptions in Jobbik's ranks.]] I therefore think that if we were talking about sovereign debt and about the budgetary processes, it is appropriate to look at the proposals made by the various factions in addition to the government, and I see that Jobbik's proposals last year would not have been aimed at a reduction in government debt but at an increase. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-05-11-82	Thank you. Congressman István Tukacs, MSZP, in two minutes!
u2016-05-11-83	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. [[Péter Benő Banai consults with right-hand imagers.]] When the Secretary of State and the Members finish their private negotiations, I may be able to contribute a two-minute debate. The words of Secretary of State Ónodi-Szűcs moved us to talk a little bit about what the health budget is like. Today - this is surprising, as it is surprising that members of the government are actively involved in a budget debate [[Uproar, interruptions from the ranks of the parties, including Sándor Font: This was not the case with you!]] - so today István Éger, president of the Hungarian Medical Association, made two rather surprising announcements. One announcement was that no one would discuss with them what the health budget would be like, and it made the amount provided to general practitioners or at all for basic care particularly critical, as if it were not in a thank-you relationship with the forecasted ones, or the general practitioners working in primary care would share this with dentists and patrons. At the same time, Mr Secretary of State has just said that wage negotiations are under way. Obviously, I can't be naive enough to ask you now to reveal the government's position in these wage negotiations, because that's not how it works. At the same time, the government may have some definite purpose in these negotiations, Mr. Secretary of State, because it is easy to see, I think, that we do not have to convince each other that with the current wages, health can not work. And it is also true that, with 36 percent health spending from private pockets, even when a person does not receive a service in free healthcare, it is not possible to operate a system that is in principle considered to be solidarity-based and operating on the basis of a national risk community. So, Mr Secretary of State, I believe that we are negotiating a budget while we are negotiating what will be in the budget. My whole comment and what has been said is that it is not fair to negotiate a budget without a vague idea of some of its items. Mr President, thank you for this opportunity.
u2016-05-11-84	Thank you very much. Secretary of State Ónodi-Szűcs, please.
u2016-05-11-85	Thank you very much. I don't want to bring the Chamber debate to Parliament, and I don't want to comment on that because it's our internal case, and I don't want to explain it here. But let's get two facts straight. Today's Bloomberg article shows that the private spending eight years ago was more than 30 percent in Hungary. That's one of your facts. The other is that negotiations are now taking place every other week for more than half a year. So I think that this also shows that we take seriously what workers are asking us to do. And the fact that we're barely on the budget has nothing to do with it. [[Dr. János Latorcai, vice-president of the Parliament, takes the chair.]] After all, we are not talking about 2016 and we are not talking about 2017 in the negotiations, but we would like to raise wages scheduled for 2019 every year. Accordingly, I cannot now guarantee what the budgetary debate will be in April 2017, but I would like to persuade the government, our government, to agree with them for four years so that I can ensure peace of work in health. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-05-11-86	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, Once again, I welcome you all with a warm welcome. We will continue the debate. Mr Péter Ágh, from the Fidesz Group, is next.
u2016-05-11-87	Thank you for the floor. Dear Parliament, Allow me to speak to the debate as a member of the Defence and Police Committee. The Government is committed to further strengthening and developing the law enforcement areas of the Ministry of Interior. The introduction in 2015 of the career system of law enforcement workers and the associated wage development, which opens up a new, long-term career for law enforcement personnel, is an outstanding achievement. In addition to the police, the wage increase extends to professional workers in disaster management and prison, civil secret services and the Parliamentary Watch, thus increasing the salary of more than 60,000 people last year. The law enforcement career model and related salary development will continue this year, with an average annual increase of 5 percent in the salaries of law enforcement workers by 2019. The additional staff allowances related to wage development in 2017 as well as the related contributions are available between sector careers and wage measures, to which HUF 48.9 billion is assigned. [[17.00]] One of the priority objectives of the law enforcement area in the budget is to further strengthen public security and public order. The budget submitted shall include these main objectives and their budgetary soundness. In 2017, too, an increased police presence in all settlements was a priority, and the Ministry of Interior developed a training concept to ensure the public order of the settlements by properly trained police officers. It is an important benefit of these developments and programmes that citizens and members of the stock experience their results directly, because they also increase citizens' sense of security and the respect of the police. In the last five years, the number of murders, assaults, robberies, car thefts and arbitrary vehicle thefts has decreased significantly among the most sensitive types of crime for society. Last year, a total of 309,394 police procedures were registered, which is a 13,8 percent reduction per year. The results of the investigation increased from 47.4 percent to 51.4 percent. The number of crimes committed in the public domain decreased significantly by 30 percent. Overall, the police are doing their job effectively, thus improving public safety in Hungary. The 2017 budget allows the police to carry out their tasks and achieve the objectives, because it provides HUF 53 billion of HUF 472 million in additional resources for the Ministry of Interior. Improvements are also expected in the prison area. One of the most important tasks for the compliance of prison institutions with international requirements is to reduce prison saturation. The tensions resulting from congestion also have a direct impact on events and the tasks of the security actors have also increased significantly. Reducing the burden, ensuring adequate working conditions and further improving the conditions are essential. The capacity-building investments and improvements will continue next year. A further expansion of the scope of internal care will once again play a significant role among the tasks of the prison in 2017, and the measures will also help to increase the number of prisoners involved in the work. On the basis of this, the overall expenditure for the implementation of the penitentiary will increase by 60 percent, which is another step towards developing this area in line with European expectations. Last year, more than 1.5 million immigrants, or a country of people, entered Europe illegally. As you well know, 390,000 people have come through our country, which has been a major task for organizations under the control of the Ministry of Interior. Following the closure of our borders, the number of people wishing to cross Hungary has fallen to only a few hundred a day, but the migration crisis has not stopped, so we need measures to ensure the security of our borders. The attacks in Paris and Brussels have shown that unregulated immigration poses real security risks. On the Balkan route and on the new routes designated by smugglers, migrants continue to arrive and this trend will continue in 2017. The Ministry of Interior is counting on the tasks of illegal migration, which are also reflected in the budget. Such a task will be to keep migration in a regulated environment, to continuously improve reception capacities, taking into account changes in migration routes, the development of a flexible organisation system adapted to the tasks and the efficient operation of detention centres. In the area of migration, it will also be a priority to improve cooperation relations in order to prevent and combat terrorism and smuggling of people and trafficking in human beings. The Ministry of Interior places great emphasis on harmonised migration controls to strengthen public order, public security, national security, consistent action against foreigners illegally travelling and illegally residing in Hungary. These are essential for the security of our country, and resources are available in the 2017 budget for the government to take these measures. Ladies and gentlemen, Hungary is living in the years of an emerging era, and one can take a step forward in 2017. This can also be said in the area of security, because the government has been developing this area for years, thus guaranteeing the safety of Hungarian people, strengthening public security. Due to recent terrorist acts in Europe and the simultaneous migration crisis associated with them, the government must give priority to the security of the Hungarian people. Therefore, security cannot be a matter of negotiation, so this area is also highlighted in the 2017 budget. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-05-11-88	Thank you very much, Congressman. Mr Lajos Korózs is next from the MSZP Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2016-05-11-89	Thank you very much. Dear House, It is undisputed that, in addition to the fact that there are many numbers, the budget will set a course for the coming year and will also demonstrate the values that the governing parties want to pursue next year. I would like to highlight some aspects of the social chapter. I would like to start by saying that if we turn to the table, my fellow Members, which is intended to demonstrate the scale of social aid, it is clear that while in 2016 the government spent HUF 128.6 billion on these expenditures - as most of the year is still ahead, but that is what is planned for this year - this is only HUF 120.4 billion in 2017. Obviously, on this column, the government is spending less and less money to help the weakest people. This is the same with the National Family and Social Policy Fund, while HUF 684 billion has been set for this year, the next year will be just over HUF 657 billion. This budget will not help the most miserable people, it virtually demonstrates that anyone who has been unlucky this year will also be miserable next year, who has been forced to make a living with little money, will not get more next year. The sociological survey, which came to light two or three weeks ago, is that 4 million, 252 thousand people in the country now live below the minimum living - I believe that there is no need to explain this in any particular way, it speaks for itself - and there are more than 900 thousand pensioners out of these 4.2 million people. I would like to stress that the number of pensioners is now around 2 million and 710,000. Clearly, the government does not want to help these people in next year's budget, while it also shows that more and more money is being spent in the next year's budget for its own operation, for the functioning of the state and for the performance of government tasks. If you look at the welfare functions in detail, you can see that the welfare functions of nearly 57 per cent and 57 per cent of GDP are expected to be supported in the next budget year by about 54,8 per cent. In the broad-based social area, including social security and welfare services, there will be less next year than this year's total GDP, and in the middle of the crisis, even in 2009, the government spent 17.7 percent of GDP on social policy expenditure, next year it will be around 14 percent. So it seems that in eight years, the government has reduced the share of social spending by nearly 4 percentage points. There is a HUF 60 billion increase in pensions, this increase is due to the 0.9 percent, I think it is humiliating, one of the lowest pension increases in the century, and I will discuss this in detail later on. It is worth noting that the number of so-called social subsidies, including the support of the poorest, is also decreasing, as is the cost of other social security benefits. The latter includes declining expenditure on disability benefits. The unemployment benefits show an increase of HUF 9 billion, which is surprising to me because the job search benefits are planned for HUF 47 billion next year, just like this year. [[17.10]] Dear House, Dear fellow Members, It is also worth considering in particular the change in expenditure on social assistance, which affects the poorest. It can be seen that in two years more than HUF 25 billion has been withdrawn from the aid budget alone. After last year's cessation of municipal aid, there will be a series less in this area next year. Support to municipalities, which can provide aid on the spot, will be the same as this year, the funding for walking aid will be reduced by more than HUF 7 billion next year compared to this year. In addition to raising the basic amount of the care fee by HUF 1500 and receiving the benefit of the elderly by 5%, this is roughly an increase of HUF 1,400. I would like to note here that these benefits have not increased by a crooked penny in the sixth year, and in the six years, these subsidies have lost their value by more than 20%, and the government is trying to compensate for this by a 5%. Then we should be able to ask you where the other 15 percent is. We know that the government's goal is to eliminate social benefits, and only public work will remain, for whom it is available, and for those who are able to work, I think the rest will be left with nothing, although the public employment, as I see it, will be spent 15 billion forints less next year. Although former State Secretary Czomba has explained where these columns should be read correctly; we will study them tomorrow. Returning here, while income poverty is still not falling, as I have mentioned to you that there are some 4 million 252 thousand people living below the minimum living age, the framework of twice a year's care for children in need is reduced by nearly half a billion forints, otherwise the amount of care is increased by 200 forints, and there is a narrower group where this form of support is increased by 700 forints. So the government is probably planning to reduce the number of beneficiaries. The cash register for public health services is rising by HUF 600 million, although the maximum amount of funding for each beneficiary remains unchanged. From this, it can be concluded that it is likely that even the government will be counting on the number of people in need in the following year. Dear House, I'm gonna have to go on disability and pensions for a few minutes. Expenditure on disability care is further reduced, compared to HUF 323 billion this year, only HUF 320 billion will be spent by the government on this item, and there will be no more forints to support the employment of workers with disabilities than it was this year. As I mentioned in my introduction, the 0.9 percent increase in pension - says the senior pensioners I had the pleasure of meeting in the last few days that it might have been better if they hadn't given me a penny, at least they wouldn't have upset the elderly with this quasi-up. The reason why this is interesting is that 0.9 percent of the budget is expected to be about this kind of inflation, while competent people see that the Magyar Nemzeti Bank's website is planned with 2.4 percent inflation next year. Then we could rightly ask, I think, where is the truth here; 0.9 is the truth or 2.4 percent is the truth. If we take pension and pension-like benefits as a basis - as I mentioned in my introduction, we are talking about nearly 2.7 million people - if we consider all the benefits, then on average, this increase will not even reach the thousand forints. In the old-age pension, this is exactly HUF 1070 on average, but it will mean only HUF 610 on average in disability and rehabilitation care. In the case of widow's pensions, I must note that the widows who do not have their own old-age pension are in this case, so whose main benefits are on the widow's pension or parental pension; the average increase comes out to HUF 620, at the time of orphanage to HUF 340. The former co-operative beneficiaries, who are now known as farmers' benefits, are entitled to an average increase of HUF 745; and hold on, fellow Members, in case of accident benefits - we are talking here about thousands of people for each type of benefit - the average increase is HUF 235; this is the price of a better kind of bread. We are talking about tens of thousands of people who receive disability benefits at the disability benefit - I counted HUF 310 for an average increase. I think it does not need to be explained in particular that this is almost a kilo of high-quality potatoes, and for those on conjugal allowance - thousands of people here too - the average increase is 140 HUF. You don't have to be a head counter. That's the price of two or three eggs. Come on. So much for the government's social sensitivity, and so much for the government's plans for pensions in next year's budget. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2016-05-11-90	Thank you very much, Congressman. Mr István Hollik is coming from the KDNP Group.
u2016-05-11-91	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear House, In the above, my fellow Members have also fundamentally examined the internal structure of the budget and some of its elements. I'd like to bring in a different approach here. In order to get a real picture of the draft budget for 2017 or to decide whether what we pro-government representatives are saying is true, that is, that the 2017 budget gives all Hungarians the opportunity to take a step forward, or whether what the opposition Members say is true is the exact opposite of what the 2017 budget contains, I believe that it is necessary not only to look at the internal structure of the 2017 budget, but also to look at the economic, social and security policy environment in which this 2017 budget proposal was made. There is also one other important aspect that I am trying to bring in in my speech, and that is the comparison with an earlier period of government. If I collect these two aspects, I will now do what I will do to look at an earlier socialist period of government - and to be fair with the socialists, I chose 2007 if we are already discussing the 2017 budget - in the world economy environment that marked Europe and Hungary and the world in 2007, what performance the then government agencies were able to deliver and what performance the then budget was able to deliver, what results it was able to deliver, and how it was able to examine the current economic environment in this respect, and what direction Hungary was guided by the draft budget for 2017. Basically, in this comparison, I would focus on two areas: the economy, macroeconomic indicators and security. I'd like to start with this one. If we look at the environment surrounding Hungary in terms of security in 2007, we can see that there was no risk of security policy in Europe, in the Member States of Europe, but also in Hungary. Basically, we were talking about a secure Europe, and then political discourses were about the development of the EU's common security and defence policy and various educational programmes, so we could see that we were basically talking about a peaceful and secure Europe. There was no external danger, and if the experts at that time were asked, these experts could say that the creation of the European Union, which wanted to guarantee European security, was successful in this regard, since the European Union has lived in safety and peace over the past 60 years. So basically we saw a calm, safe environment. Even then certain tensions appeared, as the assassination was in Madrid three years before, and Angela Merkel said a few years later that multiculturalism had failed, and the integration of immigrants poses a number of problems. [[17.20]] But basically, we can say that in 2007 Hungary had a particularly favourable environment in terms of safety. Let's look at the economic environment in 2007. We can see that in 2007 the economic environment was very positive, as Ferenc Gyurcsány said in the autumn speech, we could talk about the wealth of the world economy at that time. Let us look at the specific figures of the time to get a full picture. In 2007, with regard to GDP growth, we saw that Hungary was a good one, or rather, I would say that it was able to show a modest 0.6 percent increase with the world economy roaring. This is shown by the fact that global GDP growth was 4.8 per cent and the average of EU GDP growth in 2007 was 2.7 per cent. And what was there in the surrounding countries? Austria 3.3, Poland 7.2, Romania 8.5, Czech Republic increased by 5 percent against 0.6 percent in Hungary. So we can say that the Socialist Government was able to perform a negative economic miracle. Why do I say that? The Hungarian people were taken away from the family tax allowance, they took away the home creation, so they took money from the people, and the budget deficit was 5.1 percent. So they did not pursue a countercyclical economic policy, but a cyclical economic policy, when it went well for the economy, even when they were spending, and we can also see a growing sovereign debt. So they took money from people and pursued a spending policy. We would think that this could mean nothing more than that the economy has grown, because I am sure that the money that has been provided by borrowing and taking away from people has been used to improve the economy, to increase economic growth, but we see the opposite, as I said, Hungary has been able to show 0.6 percent economic growth. It is indeed a negative economic miracle that, in a fundamentally favourable global economy environment, we have overcome the European Union, the world economy and the neighbouring countries, including our competitors. Let us now look at what is going on today and how the 2017 budget is showing us! In this respect, I would like to return to the question of security. I think it is now clear to everyone that it is not comparable in terms of the sense of security of European people or Hungarian people 2007 and 2016-2017, so today's everyday life in which we live, because in recent months we have seen a number of terrible terrorist attacks, we have seen that the migratory pressure that started at the beginning of 2015 has only increased last year and is expected to continue this year. And yesterday, in the context of the debate on the climate agreement, the President of the Republic suggested that UN experts say that, not only because of wars but also because of climate change, Western Europe needs to prepare for further migratory pressures. And now it can also be said that this migratory pressure, this recent migration, has also increased the threat of terrorism in Europe, so there is a direct proportion of the increase in immigration and the threat of terrorism, even if it has not been discussed before, because there was no PC. We can see that the safety environment, the daily safety of European and Hungarian people is significantly worse than it was in 2007. And how is the economic environment? With regard to the economic environment, we see that the global economic crisis in 2008 was described as a V-letter, according to the then analyses, that there is an economic crisis now, but then there will be a very strong economic recovery. This just didn't show up. Then they said that we would see an L-shaped crisis, there was a great economic sinking, and then a very, very long stagnation, which we cannot see the end of. Today, economic policy analysts say that we can see a tub-shaped economic cycle, so there was a great economic recession, and then a long stagnation - how long this tub is, we do not know exactly - and then at the end we see another economic uplift. Perhaps there is consensus that the growth part of this economic cycle has not yet been achieved, so the world economy is stagnating, and even worse prospects in Europe. We see that until America's economy has regained consciousness, this cannot be said about the European economy. With regard to global economic growth, which naturally affects Hungary, the Hungarian economy, as well as the European economy, there are many uncertainties. It is enough to refer here to the failing Chinese economic growth and the risks raised by many economic experts in relation to Chinese lending. Overall, once again, we can say that the economic environment in which the 2017 budget was born is significantly worse than, let us say, the experience in 2007. And despite the fact that in 2007 there was a positive, particularly favourable economic environment and how bad the government had achieved at that time, let us look at the figures that the Orbán government has achieved so far in a significantly worse global economy environment. Obviously, we have 2015 figures, and from these we can see that growth has been reversed, since in 2007 the world economy and the European Union's economy were able to grow significantly faster than Hungary's. This trend, thank God, has turned around. Today we can see that economic growth in Hungary was close to 3 percent in 2015, while the EU average was only 1.7 percent, and the global economy's average growth was 2.7 percent. And if we look at the surrounding countries, we can see that, outside Poland, the Czech Republic was able to show only 2.1 percent GDP growth, and Croatia also had 2.1 percent GDP growth. Among the more developed countries, there was stagnation in Austria, there was no economic growth, but Belgium and Germany were able to show only 0.9 percent economic growth. In addition, in terms of the budget deficit, we can see that in a not as good a global economy environment as it was in 2007, we were able to deliver significant results, since Hungary's budget deficit was 2 per cent, with the EU average of 2.4 per cent. And if we look at European countries, we can see that the budget deficit in large countries is significantly higher than in Hungary: 3.5 percent in France, 4.4 percent in Britain, and 3.2 percent in Croatia, 2.6 percent in Poland and 3 percent in Slovakia. So what we can see is that Hungary has continued to pursue a disciplined fiscal policy in this deteriorating global economy, contrary to the fact that the surrounding countries and other European countries have not been able to control its expenditure in this way. For a word, it is also worth stopping at the sovereign debt, because the failure of the previous government and the result of the current government are perhaps the most strikingly apparent act of state debt. We can see that in 2007 we stood at 58.9 percent of the EU average in terms of public debt and 65 percent in Hungary. This means that the average of the European Union's public debt was lower than that of Hungary; Hungary was higher. [[17 .30]] In 2015, we can see that this trend has reversed. After all, the other European countries and the whole of Europe have become even more indebted, but in 2010 Hungary was able to reverse the trend of increasing public debt, not only to stop the increase in public debt, but also to reduce it, and so it can happen that, while the EU average was lower than the Hungarian government debt in 2007, it is now higher. So we can say that we have also been able to make significant progress in reducing public debt. Otherwise, it can be said if we look at the government debt rates of the neighbouring countries that we are the only ones who have fallen outside of Poland. In other countries, public debt has not been substantially reduced, only in our country. Overall, if we look at this comparison and these investigations into the global economy and the social environment, then we can see that in 2007, in a much more favourable global economy, security and social situation, the socialist governments of the time were pursuing an irresponsible and unsuccessful fiscal policy that was used to indebte the country and to take money from people. On the other hand, in 2015, and this can be forecasted for next year, in a stagnant, significantly less favourable global economy environment, the Hungarian government was able to achieve significant results, thereby achieving that we have become champions in the European Union as regards macroeconomic indicators. In this context, in view of the 2017 budget, we see that in the deteriorating security and a stagnating economic environment, the 2017 budget provides for further growth and is doing everything in its power to secure economic growth. This is also shown by the fact that the budget expects an increase of 3.1 percent in GDP and a deficit of 2.4 percent, which is well below the 3% expected by the EU. And, of course, as has been the case in recent years, it will comply with the reduction in public debt, which we have laid down in the Fundamental Law. So what you can see is that we can take a step forward in a deteriorating world economy environment, thanks to the work of the Hungarian people and the work of the government so far, there is a disciplined and growth-friendly budget ahead of us today. In addition, the State Audit Office and the Fiscal Council have said that it is well-founded, sustainable and helps the Hungarian economy to grow. In my speech tomorrow, I will explain in detail why I can say that the draft budget for 2017 will not only be a home creation, a debt reduction, but also a budget for young people. But I would like to bring one aspect here, since we already mentioned the year 2007. For young people, I believe that one of the very important goals of state and government is to make conscious and responsible farming known and presented. I believe that the government at all times must take the lead in this. For what else would we expect from the government, the government at all times, if not to farm with common money, with public money, and not to spend more than the country can produce. In this regard, I think that we have made a lot of progress in recent years, as opposed to the fact that the socialists, I say, have indebted the country in a fundamentally favourable world economy environment, have pursued irresponsible fiscal policies, have a high budget deficit, and generally the high budget deficit, as it was later found, has been exceeded. In contrast, over the past four to five years, the Hungarian government has managed to pursue a disciplined economic policy, to keep the government's public debt down and the budget deficit below 3 percent. In fact, there was a year when he even looked below the 2 percent level. I believe that this is a very important signal for young Hungarians that this is the way and only way to develop the country, that we are also pursuing a responsible fiscal policy. In view of this, the Christian Democratic People's Party calls on opposition parties to support the draft budget for 2017 before us. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-05-11-92	Thank you very much, Congressman. The next speaker from the Jobbik Group is Mr President Novak. Here you go.
u2016-05-11-93	Dear Parliament, I myself have been lobbying with Minister of State Péter Banai Benő in order to take greater account of population policy - well, um, with little success, I must say. Although progress has been made, since Jobbik has long advocated a predictable family support system, like the pension system, and we submit it year after year, we also submitted last year to increase, at least in inflation-related ways, the amount of family support, such as the number of children, which had been frozen for the seventh year. However, this proposal has been swept down by you year after year; until now, after the freezing of it for the eighth year, it is at least minimal, we can say, with inflation-related increases in both child support and maternity support. Here, however, we have to put an end to the sentence, because although John Lázár said that the family allowance was also increasing, in this he was wrong, because according to the first annex to the bill it did not rise or even decrease. Of course, not because the amount per child is falling, but because the government expects fewer children. On the other hand, Jobbik wants the whole family support system to follow inflation. Therefore, in the missing cases, I think our amending proposal will again be justified. I would like to call on you, while we were talking about maternity support, to pay attention, and to the extent that this is not enough. Especially in the case of the first children, as in the case of the Prime Minister's day... - when he had a population policy advisor, Márius Révész suggested that this should be increased to a much greater extent in the case of the first child. For this reason, I would like to point out that 60 percent of 30-year-old women are childless, 40 percent of 40-year-olds, so that men cannot experience the most beautiful female profession, motherhood, and thus fatherhood - almost half of people -. In addition, the health risks of pregnancy increase exponentially over the age of 30, especially with Down's syndrome, but also with the chances of infertility. It is therefore recommended to start a family as young as possible. By the way, our proposal is that if the mother gives birth to her first child between the ages of 20 and 30, then there should be a much larger grant of up to HUF 1 million. But it is certain that we should talk about whether the first child can be expected to receive greater support. I would also like to point out that, in general, they are talking about pensioners, like those living in extreme poverty, but also the statements and figures of the KSH say that the greatest risk of poverty is not being retired, but being a large family is being a child. Today, being a child in Hungary is a much greater risk of poverty than being retired. Therefore, although it is rightly said that pensioners are in a difficult situation, I think it is my first priority to highlight the difficult situation of Hungarian families. I mean, there's a lot of them living under the minimum of living. Exactly how many, it is difficult to say, since KSH has abolished the well-established old method of calculating the people living below the minimum level, which has shown that 40 percent of Hungarian families live below the minimum living. A new method of calculation has been introduced, and the number of people living below the minimum of living has already fallen to below 15 per cent. I don't think this kind of cosmetics is acceptable. Rather, we should talk about expanding support for full-time motherhood, or who chooses to work in parallel with raising young children can be a rather heavy burden for the kindergarten care fee introduced by the previous Orbán government, which has not been before. In the past, like schools and kindergartens, nursery services were free of charge. It is incomprehensible, and to this day we have not been given an answer as to why the Hungarian families had to suffer this from Fidesz; it is neither logical nor appropriate for the government's policy. But it is important to talk about the lack of wage development for social workers, as the career model only affected ten percent of the graduates' daycare workers. To this day, the majority of caregivers have an amazing lack of wages. [[17.40]] After all, if you look at the wages of those working in social care in a broader context, now you look at them more closely than the nursery, then they have not increased since 2008, let alone increased, but are constantly decreasing. Wages have now fallen to the level of 2003 and have fallen below the minimum of living. Since 2011, average wage in the social sphere has decreased from HUF 124 000 to HUF 105,000, 75% of employees in the sector can only bring home a minimum wage or less. As a result of wage cuts, 93,000 workers and their families have drifted into an emergency situation, slowly earning less from assisting professionals than from some social benefits, who are assisted by workers in the social sphere. I think that in order for children who want to come into the world, too, by Hungarian couples, serious steps would be needed. That is why Jobbik proposes, even before it comes to government, even now, and we hope that something can be achieved from the programme package, which is one of the elements that has recently been voted down, before we go to government, by radically reducing the VAT on products for child rearing. But I would like to talk a little bit longer about the state-supported home and rent-building and purchase programme. Unfortunately, Viktor Orbán leaked that he didn't want to hear about building a rental. So the Hungarian families may be able to move from four to five, but not from one to two. It has also become clear who is the beneficiary, the biggest beneficiary of the CSOK and the various home-building subsidies. It has also become clear that Fidesz and his Majesty's opposition, the common dog of the MSZP, are controlled by the orange barons. [[Moore in the ranks of the MSZP.]] one of the largest investments is the XI. The purchase of the most impressive part of the district, the Kopaszi dam, where just like the CSOK apartments will be built from a HUF 16.5 billion state loan, after each of their oligarchs became owners in 51 percent and 49 percent respectively. There is no need to be so raging, as Viktor Orbán's good friend, the owner of the Videoton football team, István Garancsi, is 51 percent, and the former transaction director of Wallis led by the ex-government of MSZP, Gordon Bajnai, Miklós Kóbor became 49 percent owner of this beautiful natural-beautiful part of the city, whose further installation is planned. It is an additional picantria of this business that this joint fidesz and left-wing sale is financed by the same state-owned and government-led Eximbank, which is the same as Viktor Orbán's other good friend, Andrew G. Vajna - I am sorry, though, since the country where the profits are called András György Vajna, let us be precise - so he is also helping to buy TV2 with a loan of 6.7 billion forints. Why not turn to market-based loans, commercial banks? It is quite obvious that we are talking about State-supported loans, even if the bank rejected my request for information of public interest on the basis of a commercial secret and does not tell me exactly what interest rate András György Vajna receives. Well, the multi-billion-dollar private business has nothing to do with the original purpose of the financial institution, which was created to encourage foreign trade, the bank itself. And by the way, the preferential loans used by their orange barons: the state-owned Eximbank Zrt. You will receive 25 billion forints from the budget for interest compensation - so much for the fact that there are no preferential loans for your orange barons here. From this I suggested transferring 2 billion HUF to support the production of films with historical themes, as the government's great cultural policy failure to make historical films, even though of the Raggyos Guard, the Battle of Bratislava, could be a list of who would like to make a film. You shouldn't be celebrating Trianon anyway, you should be celebrating Viennese decisions, but you don't seem to dare to make glorious movies about them. Speaking of the Kopaszi dam, I also have a five billion HUF proposal to buy back and develop the Danube coast in New Buda, since the most valuable areas in Budapest are the shores of the Danube, which have not yet been built. Unfortunately, part of the coast of Újbuda in Duna from Kopasi dam to Kondorosi road is called a brown and rust zone, a dump and a dump site; now the homeless have moved in, so public safety is not satisfactory. This part of the Danube is a treasure that needs to be made available to people as soon as possible to provide cultural recreation and sports facilities. My fellow Member, György Szilágyi, has already spoken a long time about why mass sports should be much more supported. I would like to add to this my amendment, which could be linked to this investment, as the amount of HUF 477 million allocated to support recreational sports should be increased by multiples, because while the amount spent on government communication causes rapid heartbeat, high blood pressure and other undesirable symptoms in the broad masses of society, we face the fact that the money spent on recreational sports is a savings in health in the medium term. And while I have spoken of the tip of my heart, NewBuda, let another symbolic thing be allowed: Lake Bottomless, I think many of you know, the symbol of NewBuda is Lake Bottomless and its view, and part of this view is the giant St. Imre Church on Villányi Road. There is an extremely busy church and community life, full of young people, and yet, its facade and structural state are in a very bad condition, it will be a disgrace to the district. I therefore believe that structural and facade renovation is justified and urgent, and I envisaged a HUF 500 million grant in an amending proposal. However, back to family policy, I would like to call for greater support for the flask baby programme, on the one hand, because of the infertility that is considered to be a population disease. My fellow Member, György Szilágyi, has also talked about this, and has also tabled an amendment to this. I trust that, if nothing else, at least this, the birth of Hungarian lives, where they would like to be, but this cannot be done for health reasons, they would support this. You are indebted to the family-friendly design, as well as to the demographic land programme, which was well developed and adopted at the time of József Ángyán's Secretary of State, as part of the national rural strategy, which is still in force under the subtitle of the regional constitution, voted by the government. However, despite the fact that there was a specific timetable for years, virtually nothing has come of it, even though it would have been necessary for young couples who are susceptible to it to get to the ground. Sadly, compared to this, the orange barons were sent to newer and newer lands, Lurch Mészáros and his father, his father, with the same name. Calm down, there's no problem. The only reason they get all this land is because they have the same name. Well, we are not calming down, and we think that the demographic earth program is more needed, and that there is a need for the introduction of parental annuities and many steps to be taken. I think that they would not be dissuaded if I dared to say what they refused to say here at my many requests, the last time the government refused to say to my interpellation on Monday what the government considered to be the biggest problem in Hungary. If I dare to say what the absolute majority of society, 58 percent of them, say that the root of Hungary's greatest problems is population loss, if there were as courageous as Jobbik was that after a serious professional debate, there are many problems, there is no doubt, but we dared to say that the most serious problem of Hungary is population loss, and we included it in our program. Try once they write an election program - let us hope they will have one - write it down, lay it down, because it will be much easier to approach the question, and then you cannot vote our proposals down on the basis of a lack of money. Like the ten proposals I have presented in this Monday's interpellation, and none of which the government has shown any openness. However, it should be changed, because according to the recent representative opinion poll of the Institute of Directions, the question whether you believe that the current family policy of the government is sufficient to deal with the Hungarian population crisis has been answered by 71 percent, according to whom the government's family policy is not sufficient, i.e. insufficient, i.e. failed. That's what 71 percent of society says, and only 21 percent believe it's enough to pass the test with the government's family political leaders. I think we should face this. And if you do not believe the Institute of Directions, dare to assess this question themselves - I do not think that the Hungarian people would give a very different answer. Dare to face the fact that this is the biggest problem of Hungarians! And if they did, I think they would support all of our proposals that I cannot really describe here. But perhaps I would like to bring one more sacred matter here in closing, and this is the dissemination of knowledge to develop a pro-life approach - 35 million forints. Why, I'll also tell you why so much, because the Fundamental Law II. In contrast to the article on "The dignity of the human being is inviolable." Every man has the right to life and human dignity, the life of a fetus is protected from conception. Unfortunately, too many people still decide not to give birth to their children. In many cases, the environment, the fear of parents' reactions, is behind the decision, and if the environment were to support it, the mother would choose to live. We, Jobbikók think that perhaps The Menet of Life Foundation will also acknowledge with great understanding that if the National Assembly, redirecting half of the amount of support originally intended by the government, would use this 35 million forints to develop pro-life, life-oriented and life-oriented thinking, showing the Hungarian population how society's attitude towards fetal life has evolved since the Hungarian legalization of abortion. [[17.50]] This also has a particular public interest, as it may result in more decision to give birth to their children. Dear Secretary of State, I can only repeat what we talked about, and what I have repeatedly said here in Parliament, by ringing the alarm bell, that while the most serious problem of Hungary, the demographic disaster, is not faced, but should be reversed until this is done, the pension system, social security, the whole public finances are unsustainable. A budget that is not yet collapsing will be unsustainable in the long run if these catastrophic demographic trends are not reversed. Let's face it, that the annual population loss rate increased to 40,000 in 2015 compared to 35,000 in 2014. It is possible to extract smaller or larger statistics here, but annual KSH data show that the rate of population loss is increasing. This needs to be faced, and there is also a need for radical changes in family policy. Thank you for your attention.
u2016-05-11-94	On behalf of the government, Secretary of State László Szabó asked for the floor.
u2016-05-11-95	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I would like to raise my voice here in relation to the Member's error in the matter. In the comments on the various funding practices of Eximbank, I would like to clarify a bit of confusion. Eximbank is able to put loans on the market at market prices, i.e. they acquire capital from the world market, and it can lend loans within a fully market and commercial framework, really without belonging to any party, name or economic group, on a commercial policy basis. Exim helps Hungarian small and medium-sized enterprises with the items that are now included in the budget, and here they do interest compensation practices that allow successful exports of Hungarian small and medium-sized enterprises, and the two activities do not need to be confused, there are two completely different activities. In the first quarter of 2016, the share of small and medium-sized enterprises in the entire customer base exceeded 84 percent in Exim's portfolio. They practically helped 670 companies this year. The bank's refinanced loan has already exceeded HUF 530 billion, which shows that the number of small and medium-sized enterprises successfully financed by Exim is increasing through the partners working with direct financing and through refinancing with banks. And I feel that the figures that have broken virtually every record in 2015 are speaking for themselves, exports over EUR 90 billion and foreign trade surplus of 8.1 billion, I think that is a great success in itself. Once again, the kind of funding that you criticize in this country on a commercial basis is carried out by Eximbank with the involvement of market resources. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-05-11-96	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. On the government's side, the reflection is continued by Secretary of State Péter Benő Banai. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2016-05-11-97	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. The question of the social sector and family support has been raised in several comments, so I would like to draw attention, if you will, to some differences in approach and processes that are progressing according to the philosophy of the government. MEP Lajos Korózs and former representatives of the Socialist Party have always looked at social expenditure from the point of view of the development of the area of expenditure in proportion to GDP. And it was assessed, and as I understand it correctly, that Congressman Lajos Korózs assessed the budget for the year 17 whether social spending was increasing in proportion to GDP or not. I think that a different approach should be followed. What is the goal of a government anywhere in Europe or anywhere in the world? It is that, by increasing employment and maintaining a social care system, the population should live at a normal standard of living and as little need for aid as possible. From such an approach, I repeat, I value the fact that, compared to the situation a few years ago, much more people can work today, and according to every statement who works has a chance of rising, there is a chance that their lifestyle will improve and their incomes will increase. To reverse this question, if we were to look at the processes mentioned by Mr Korózs, Greece and some other Mediterranean countries would be on the best course, since their GDP is falling, unemployment is rising, social spending is increasing in proportion to GDP. I think it is appropriate to state that this is not the purpose. Let us then look at the changes in the social field in 2017. Where the Member sees an absolute reduction in expenditure, the result is that the number of people affected is falling. We cannot find anything in the 2017 budget bill before you, and we cannot find an element where a specific reduction in supply would occur. You can't say one of those things. Unlike Mr Lajos Korózs, he also said that there are two benefits where the amount of benefits is increasing: the contributions of elderly people or the increase in the support of children in the poorest families. I repeat: the 2017 budget does not contain a nominal reduction for any sector, nor does it include any benefits. It contains an increase, so there are also benefits in the social field that are increasing, and I repeat: we can expect that the number of people employed will increase in 2017. It's a matter of pensions. Firstly, it is appropriate to reiterate the legal requirement that pensions should maintain their real value. This is a post-2010 legislation, an obligation under the Fundamental Law, and we know that there was no such rule before. There were times when the real value of pensions was reduced. After 2010, we do not see such a process. Since 2010, pensions have either maintained their real value or have increased their real value. Let's look at the factual numbers again. The value of growth has been higher than the value of inflation in recent years. This year we expect a 0.4 percent inflation rate. The rate of pension increases, if I remember correctly, was 1.6 percent. Last year's inflation rate was minus 0.1 per cent, also in the previous year, and a much higher number of positive increases, as appropriate. As a result of these increases, the real value of pensions has increased to such an extent that, after 2010, that 13th month pension has actually been re-established in the pension system. So with these facts behind us, it is worth evaluating the 2017 pension increase proposal. I would like to ask all Members with respect not only to say that the Fundamental Law and the Budget Act prepared in this spirit at least ensure the preservation of the real value of pensions, but not only to say that if inflation is higher, by the force of the law, there will be an additional increase at the end of the year, but also to say that, yes, in the consumer basket of pensioners, the utility charges that have been reduced under the reduction of the rent will be added. [[Bangóné Borbély Ildikó: Ask the pensioners.]] the consumption of basic foods in the consumer basket of pensioners is higher than in the consumer basket of an average family, the VAT on these basic foods, raw milk, eggs and poultry is reduced to 5 per cent from 2017 onwards. [[Nándor Gúr: Raw milk! Raw milk! Do you know the percentage?]] In view of all this, I believe that measures worthy of pensioners are also included in the budget bill for next year. I would like to mention one more thing in the social field, and this is the issue of pay for social workers. We can remember that in recent years, there have been extra wages, two extra wages. [[Ildikó Bangóné Borbély: But that is not the basic wage, Mr. Secretary of State. Rentals, not basics.]] There has been extra funding for social workers and the 2017 budget bill also expects further wage increases to be made in the social sector. [[Bangóné Borbély Ildikó: And when will he receive the wage increase in his basic salary, and not in a wage supplement?]] [[18.00]] The social area is often referred to as daycare workers. [[Ildikó Bangóné Borbély intervenes.]] and allow me to switch to the family policy measures mentioned by Mr President Novák. If I say wage, then first of all, we have to record that daycare graduates are part of the teacher's career model. [[Bangóné Borbély Ildikó: And what percentage of daycare workers is this, Mr. Secretary of State?]] Thus, they saw additional wage increases according to teacher wage increases, and, as a matter of fact, in 2017 they will also have a wage increase in September. As a new measure, also for workers with secondary education in kindergarten [[Interviews from the ranks of the MSZP.]] [[Ildikó Bangóné Borbély intervenes.]] and allow me to switch to the family policy measures mentioned by Mr President Novák. If I say the rent, we must first of all record that workers with a kindergarten degree are part of the teacher's career model (Ildikó Bangóné Borbély: And what percentage of daycare workers is this, Mr. State Secretary?) As a result, they also have additional wage increases according to teacher's wage increases, and, as a matter of fact, in 2017 they will also receive a wage increase in September. It is also a new measure for workers with secondary education in kindergarten (interviews from the lines of the MSZP). ) we are looking at additional wage payments, which are covered by the provisions that have already been mentioned many times. (Ildikó Bangóné Borbély intervenes.) So, I repeat, you have a higher education... [[Ildikó Bangóné Borbély: Perhaps the toy tax should be reconsidered, Mr Secretary of State. The president's ringing the bell. Nándor Gúr: Bangóné speaks well! Ildikó Bangóné Borbély intervenes.]] ... higher education graduates are also expected to receive a raise in secondary education. But the fundamental question, I think, is that on the family policy issue, the radical change that Mr President Novak mentioned, whether it can be seen in action after 2010 or not. Again, I would like to reiterate that 2010 and 2011 were years when the European economic environment, the Hungarian economic environment, and the public finances environment resulted in all recommendations aimed at radically increasing revenue and radically reducing expenditure. In this environment, because the government took a very bold step, or because the National Assembly took the bold step by adopting a family support system, it adopted a tax relief system, according to which more than 270 billion forints remain with families in 2017. [[Bangóné Borbély Ildikó: And who can use it?]] What if it's not a radical change? I agree with the congressman on that. [[Bangóné Borbély Ildikó: Radical and good are not the same!]] I agree with the Member that one of the biggest challenges facing the country is to make the population turn permanent, to achieve as many children as possible, so there is no debate between us in this respect. There's a debate in the instruments. My statement is that the Government has also taken a significant turn, which is also important for the Member, and has taken a number of measures to ensure that the desired children are born, which is why next year's budget includes the fact that the benefits of the two children will increase. It is therefore also important to have the first children, but I think that further incentives should be given to give birth to the second and third children. In addition to tax measures - just for the sake of completeness - I have to mention the introduction of the child extra, and I have to mention that the state is now spending more than HUF 100 billion on nursery development from EU funds. [[Ildikó Bangóné Borbély intervenes.]] I should mention that, as a result of a legislative amendment, a nursery must be opened in the settlements where parents ask for nursery opening and the number determined is reached by the number of children of nursery age. Or I could mention that the parties governing after 2010 restored the possibility for mothers to be at home with their children for three years. I therefore think that there are a number of measures to achieve a population turnaround and to strengthen the results achieved, as well as the 2017 budget bill [[Ildikó Bangóné Borbély: The turn of population has not worked, Mr. Secretary, but not!]] That is why I have the courage to offer your support for the document in front of you. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-05-11-98	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. We will continue with the speeches. From the Fidesz Group, it is up to Congressman Jenő Manninger.
u2016-05-11-99	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, I believe that the representatives of the government have responded to what they have said before me, essentially listing the facts. I thought, however, that when the Member before me, Mr President Novák, spoke that we were now witnessing that he had not yet given up on his ambitions as Vice-President, because he summarized his earlier statements and listed them. I would like to mention one more thing because you have said it many times here in Parliament, and now I am beginning to remember it, and you have told me so many times about the survey of this Institute of Directions. On the one hand, the Secretary of State presented the facts, and, on the other hand, I would just like to draw attention to the question of whether something proves to be enough from the point of view of a survey expert, you know, is very misleading. In fact, if we want to carry out a survey on budgetary issues, the only thing that is accepted professionally is that if a package is to be distributed for different purposes, because if we ask whether it is considered sufficient for something, then they will answer almost everything that is not enough, because it is the nature of things. [[Ancient Novak: Except for stadiums! Sándor Font: We won't even ask.]] So I think it is obvious that this survey may be interesting, but it does not apply. Of course, from the point of view, I think that it is very right - I agree with him, by the way - that this matter must not be left alone, and that the Secretary of State has also said what measures have been taken in recent years, and that we must, of course, carry on consistently not only family preferences, but also improve further - this is also planned - for example, the employment opportunities of parents raising children, mothers with small children, and so on. We therefore agree that this is the most important issue ahead of us in these years. Lucky, as the Secretary of State has said, and not luck, is the result of the government's economic development policy that we can really do so in these years, and there is no doubt that there are successes that must be recognised. The biggest critics also acknowledge and, according to OECD surveys, significant progress has been made in the tax field between 2010 and 2015, even if, of course, it can be said here that people will not be satisfied with the tax reduction and should continue, as taxes can be further reduced in particular in the area of improving competitiveness, so this year too. But I would mention that, according to the OECD study between 2010 and 2015, the overall tax burden was reduced from 54 to 46 per cent for small and medium-sized enterprises, so this is the right direction, and this should be continued. Or even people living in disadvantaged and modest circumstances have had an improvement because the last five years have been when the net minimum wage has increased significantly by 11 percent and there has not been such a trend in previous periods. I also have to add that between 2010 and 2015, 560 thousand new jobs have been created, and 200,000 of them are public workers, which also offers an opportunity to enter the labour market. These are the main trends. In addition, the 2017 budget is called the budget for home creation and tax reduction, because now not only business burdens and VAT burdens are reduced, and they know what new opportunities there are for home creation, which can be said to be used not only by the wealthy but also by those in different social situations. I would also like to address a subject that has not yet been mentioned in the budget, sectoral issues, environmental protection and transport. How the objectives of environmental protection and transport are served by the budget, in short, I have to say very briefly which main objectives it serves, I would just like to highlight a goal, because environmental protection and transport are linked to support for electromobility, the Jedlik Ányos Plan, which also has a budget leg, HUF 3 billion, obviously this can be complemented by EU funds, or by the use of the money generated in previous years in relation to the greenhouse quota. Here, in the coming years, we will see great progress: basic infrastructure for electric motoring, charging stations are being built, fast charging stations, payment and settlement systems are being developed, and a process is beginning to involve Hungary in increasing the spread of electromobility. In both transport and rail transport, it can be seen that overall, the amounts increase significantly [[Ildikó Bangóné Borbély intervenes.]] , from 2010 onwards, we are talking about increasing amounts. This year, in 2017, both road activities and rail transport will continue to grow. [[18.10]] There is no doubt that in this respect, and there is no time for me to explain this, that domestic resources and EU funds are complementary here, and it is not easy to see through, but it is definitely a bigger growth. This has to be said, as I would like to say here at the beginning of the budgetary debate, and several press products started this morning an interpretation of the decline in resources in certain sectors and, interestingly enough, education has also been listed here. I can only imagine that someone mistakenly or intentionally mistakenly grouped amounts, or even invented them. So this is why it is not easy to review the budget in this respect. It is possible to look at transport and environmental protection, but there are only positive amounts coming out, and in the coming years we will be able to report significant improvements. I would also like to highlight the improvement of road transport safety, for which there is also HUF 198 million. This is very important because this is one of the most important objectives, together with the European Commission, as well as targets that have specific strategic objectives, such as the planned money for the construction of the Budapest-Belgrád railway line, or even a separate amount for key transport investments in Budapest, 9.2 billion and 5 billion forints for the development of rail transport in Buda. Just as it is very important that the budget now name 400 million forints in support of the operation of regional airports in rural areas. Of course, road development, a large part of which takes place from the IKOP, i.e. the integrated road operational programme, in addition to the priority rail development, will be complemented by domestic funding to achieve the main goals of connecting county-righted cities to the national motorway network. Some could be solved from EU sources in Szombathely, but Eger, Kaposvár, Békéscsaba is also being turned on, but Zalaegerszeg also has plans for the time being, which will also turn Hévíz and Keszthely into the motorway network. So we can - and I would like to conclude - say that home creation and tax reduction are priorities, but developments will continue on the basis of EU funds and domestic resources, so we will also see significant improvements in rail and road transport in 2017. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-05-11-100	Thank you very much, Congressman. As an independent Member is not present at the moment, the speech will be moved back. The round is closed, now we have two-minute speeches. First I give the floor to Congressman István Apáti. Here you go, Congressman.
u2016-05-11-101	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I would like to deal very briefly with a much narrower cross-section compared to the total national budget, and this concerns the area of my constituency, Mátészalka, and it would also be important for a significant part of Szabolcs-Szatmár-Bereg County, given its implications. This is the construction of the M49 bypass road, which I have spoken about many times over the last few years in the Parliament. Everyone has acknowledged the need for it, they consider it important from a road safety point of view, from an economic point of view, but somehow, when money should be provided in the central budget, then our neighborhood, for many times now, we experience that stepchild, as if the people who live there are multi-level citizens of this country, and they always turn back and put us back in this order of importance. For everyone to understand what this is about, there is a guard exit and exit at km 266 of motorway M3, from here, and from the direction of Chengersima, Mátészalka, Kocsord, Győrtelek, Ököritófülpös, Porcsalma, Pátyod, Csenger would reach the Hungarian-Romanian border. This is important not only because, according to a 2010 survey in Kochord and Mátészalka, more than ten thousand vehicles passed through one day in 2006, this has already increased to 16 thousand by 2010, as these two municipalities must bear a large proportion of the passenger and freight traffic coming from Tiszabecs and Chengersima. The surrounding properties, the condition of the residential properties is catastrophically deteriorating, with several fatal and other serious accidents occurring. This is how agriculture, which is the driving force of the area, could be turned into the bloodstream of the country and Europe, and in many other respects it would be important for this investment to start with an amount of at least HUF 20 billion. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] So I would very much ask you and Mr Sándor Kovács Fidesz, who is in the Chamber, to support this amendment. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik. Interview from the ranks of the MSZP: He's not even in there! István Apáti: He was just here!]]
u2016-05-11-102	Thank you very much. Congressman Nándor Gúr, notary of the Parliament.
u2016-05-11-103	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Minister of State Banai, I would like to warn you not to argue, because you will not argue with me, but with KSH and NAV, if you speak in the opposite sense. [[Defiance in the ranks of the MSZP.]] Although, Mr. Secretary, as I have noticed today, you are capable of doing so. You know, the proportion of people living in long-term poverty in 2009 was 5.7 percent. Now we're talking about 1.5 percent more. 1.5 percent doesn't say anything on its own, but if I say 150,000 more people, you're gonna say more, aren't you? The situation is even worse for children, because the proportion of children living in long-term poverty increased from 9 percent to 13.4 percent. This means that more than 400,000 children live in persistently poor conditions than in 2009. I only told you this because, despite the many positive results you have just mentioned, such a life situation is developing. KSH, not Gur, KSH. I would also like to add to you that this is obvious, as wage-posial situations call for life in far-reaching majority of people, because, for example, public-employed people have one third less money in purchasing power than they had six years ago. The minimum wage, which is now 73 815 forints, you know, this first year in purchasing power is more than in 2010, and for five years people have been robbed, while posters have posted that the minimum wage is increasing. Your contributions have increased, Mr. Secretary. You also know what the situation is in employment positions, but you can also tell my fellow Member Manninger that he is aware of this, that about 200,000 people in public employment on average, about 120 to 130 thousand people who are in the statistics, but who do work abroad, students who do work within the framework of student associations were not involved in statistics between 150 and 200 thousand people six years ago. If you add up these three numbers, about half a million. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] What surplus are you talking about? A million new jobs have been promised in the economy. They didn't do anything about it. This is what should be created in order to make this world more livable. Mr. President, thank you very much.
u2016-05-11-104	Thank you very much, Congressman. We will continue with the proper speeches. From the Fidesz Group, Mr Font Sándor is next. Here you go, Congressman.
u2016-05-11-105	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, It seems that since 2010 the MSZP and the opposition have chosen the strategy that the draft budget submitted is so terrible that it is better not to vote, it cannot be improved, although they are experimenting with it, and that if it comes into effect, this will lead to the destruction of Hungary. About such messages are heard in each of their speeches. They are following this pattern now, but I would like to remind them that the seventh budget we have presented since 2010 is now one after the other, and that the destruction we have been seeing has not occurred. In fact, not only did it not happen, but if you have been watching the exhibition that Mihály Varga said in the morning and then the other significant speakers, and if you are also watching Hungary's economic situation and performance, you will see that it is an improving trend that surrounds the Hungarian economy in all respects. I have been watching this debate in the field of agriculture for a long time, where they follow the same pattern. Indeed, today the MSZP has not torn apart the agricultural land budget, but I know their approach, so I wouldn't be surprised if the rest of today and tomorrow's day were to claim that this is terrible, which is now in the agricultural chapter. But I looked at this, which was stated during the 2016 budget debate, then at the 15th, at the 14th, and I could list it. But what happened in agriculture? It's not what they predicted it would lead to destruction and total destruction, it's exactly the opposite. [[18.20]] There has been a strengthening of Hungarian agriculture in the last six years, which has not been once since 1990. It has never added such capacity to the Hungarian economy, to GDP growth. The year 2012 was the only hard year for Hungary's economy - we remember the indicators - but Hungarian agriculture also had a catastrophic year: winter frost, spring frost, drought, everything that existed came together. That is why I dare say that it is the right budget, and it is the right budget here in agriculture that serves the strategic objectives properly. It seems that we have properly outlined strategic objectives in agriculture after 2010, because the results reflect this and the budget has always been in the service of these strategic objectives. What were these strategic goals that could still be pursued? As I said, livestock production, which is also the first stage of manufacturing, is the development of manual labour-intensive areas, the strengthening of the gardening sector, because employment is a major concern for the Hungarian economy in general. We have done a great deal to increase in this area, with the number of people employed now around 500 thousand compared to 2010. We still see potential in agriculture, we see it. Of course, the basic issue is to strengthen the manufacturing industry, to increase the processing of plant and animal products, and to increase their share. These strategic objectives seem to have been correctly seen and supported by the current budget. Of course, we know that there are indefensible forces, these forces of nature, which we cannot count on, and these can sometimes distort the expected performance of agriculture. Such was the tragic, quoted year 2012. We must also be prepared for this, and this is one of the objectives of reducing these agricultural exposures. I am thinking of flood protection, inland water, and the drought water shortage that follows a few months later. The solution to this task is yet to come. That didn't happen. We are rich in water, but we are also wasteful, and we are not giving agriculture the opportunity that we could otherwise afford. So in the difficult, drying period, we can't increase irrigation areas, we still have serious problems getting water there. Ice damage is just as serious a challenge. This has been promised and it is government's intention that the entire agricultural areas will be covered with an anti-icing system, responsible for the National Chamber of Agriculture. As I understand it, the technical implementation of this will start in 17 years. Then there's the frost damage, which, unfortunately, has already caused the known destruction this year. Here we stand in the weakest, not us, Hungary, but at all the science of whether there is a reasonable, cost-effective solution to frost control. But these are the goals that we need to address, and I also point out that the budget is doing what is necessary to solve these challenges. We cannot bypass the fact that the entire agricultural sector, you can say calmly, is okay, but it has certain segments and some players who feel bad. Now, especially in the dairy sector, farmers and farmers of dairy cows feel that there is a problem, and as if we are not doing everything in their interest to prevent them from producing hundreds of thousands of minuses every day by milking cows. Unfortunately, this is the case now, but it is well known that this was not caused by us, the Hungarian government and Hungarian farmers, but by the liberation of the milk quota, and it was supplemented by sanctions against Russia. And then all of them came up, and the big milk-producing countries were still throwing them at us, and they even dumped the huge quantities of milk on the markets that we had so far booked at a price that we couldn't compete with. We have not yet found a solution to this, not only by replacing the many additional EU funds and the additional funding available in the Hungarian budget, but, for the time being, 24 of the 28 countries of Europe are suffering from this problem. I think that there is nothing today in Hungarian agriculture other than the dairy sector that would affect so many players in general, so I can safely say that agriculture is thanking you very much, and it is quite all right. This is reflected in the annual export performance, the increase in manufacturing and the very strong sufficient performance of the Secretary of State, mentioned by Mr Czerván. There are some parts of the budget that I would like to mention. For me, my old heartache, my fellow government colleagues know I wasn't a fan when the Agricultural Marketing Centre escaped the agricultural portfolio. I'm still watching you go to the Ministry of National Development in the latest form. I can't change the fact that the Agricultural Marketing Center would be the right place at the agricultural purse. It can only carry out its own task, the implementation of agricultural marketing, through extremely complicated referrals. I'm hoping that maybe the Agrármarketing Center can be returned to the wallet by kicking it around. Let me mention well-known areas that almost affect all members of the population: the school milk and school fruit scheme. They are extremely successful, we almost fail to set up funding funds. We are currently supporting this programme with significant amounts of 4 billion and 1.5 billion. Here, of course, we are already touching on the social issue, the whole day's catering issue, which has been well known to be extended from kindergartens to elementary schooling in full to the holiday period. Let me mention the power of the budget, which is not in our country, not in our agricultural sector, during that time, but perhaps we are most affected by the impact of the VAT reduction, i.e. the great tax reduction effect. It is clear that the winners of the reduction of VAT to 5% of fresh milk, eggs and poultrymeat are, of course, primarily Hungarian consumers. But let us be honest with you that the players in this agriculture will also be very important winners, eliminating the serious black economy, the undesirable players who operate in this area, as the pigmeat has done and we have seen, as we have been able to detect with the reverse VAT in the grain trade. The agricultural operators who obey the laws are placed in an unbelievable favourable position. Let us not forget that they are the biggest winners of the population. Therefore, it is safe to say that, in addition to home creation, VAT cuts and tax reductions alone are the most important aspects of this budget, and agriculture and thus consumers can be the winners of this budget. Of course, there are some issues such as the National Council of Mountains that we believe are insufficient to support, but it is a happy question that the National Council of Pálinka, on the other hand, has been added to the list of beneficiaries as a new player with a separate chapter title. We are working to make it as subtle as possible and to make the final budget as acceptable as possible for the players, which we will propose to everyone. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-05-11-106	Thank you very much, Congressman. The next speaker from the MSZP Group is Mr István Tukacs. Here you go, Congressman.
u2016-05-11-107	Thank you very much for this opportunity, Mr President, and thank you for the floor. Firstly, with regard to the budget, I would like to talk about a government announcement that has somehow been forgotten until the budget is negotiated, namely: the promise of a budget of zero. It turns out that the budget is zero, not zero, because the budget calculates a deficit, the government communicators and actors explained that only operating costs became zero, the development costs are not included. Well, how can I put it, if Hungary doesn't have a uniform budget, it can separate development and operation, that's unfortunate. So let's be clear, the plan for a budget of zero has failed, despite the fact that operating expenditure has been significantly cut. The other thing I would like to say is that the interesting thing is that we are going to start negotiating the budget, but we will discuss the laws and tax laws that establish the budget later. [[18.30]] The order of this would be translated only on a logical basis: if we consider not only the name but the content of the underlying laws, it should come out of it as an explanation that first the foundation, then the budget itself. We are discussing the budget now, and then we will begin on Friday to discuss the laws that are not an integral part of the budget, but the beginning of the budget, the basis for planning. It is regrettable in this budget that despite all the government rumors about bureaucracy cuts, the state's spending on itself is increasing. This is a problem in health care because they insist on some kind of cramped will to stop OEP while working at least with the lowest operating costs and ratios. So they would rather upset a professional organization than be rational at least in this regard. Ladies and gentlemen, I'll talk a little bit about the revenue side of the budget, what's missing from it. Of course, without knowledge or discussion of the foundations, it is difficult to do so, but I would like to ask some items. The first item is whether the Magyar Nemzeti Bank's profits as public money could fit in this budget. I think it is, and a lot of people think it is. When György Matolcsy announces that the Hungarian National Bank decides - I am not wrong when I say that it decides - to pay 50 billion dividends to the budget with great mercy, then I ask why not 260, and what is that decision. Doesn't the owner usually decide the size of the dividend? The other question is that, although it is announced in tax laws that this is a budget for tax reductions, there is still tax scope to channel into the budget. At the time when Mihály Varga talked about extending the mandatory use of online cash registers to many small entrepreneurs not so long ago during the year, he did not mention one thing that all the providers of manicure and pedicure and fitness and other services who are obviously very happy with this idea of how they can be compared with Andy Vajna's casinos. Why isn't there an online connection? Why isn't this revenue important to the state? If the Secretary of State thinks that this is a demagogic argument, then I would like to indicate that it is not, but a presentation of the principle of equal burden-sharing here in the Hungarian Parliament. Or to just talk about health care: do you remember the idea of a chip tax, a public health product tax, which is sustainable, because it would have continuously served the health sector's wage development? On one occasion there was such a thing, if I remember correctly, about 35-40 billion dollars were distributed uglyly, as the wage development was shifted from the workers to the doctors, and, let's say, a beginner worker received zero forints from the wage development, just those who should be kept in the profession. If I'm looking at these three items, I'm saying that the government is not as careful about the revenue that can be discovered as it should be and should be. My colleague, Mr Korózs, has already spoken about the rate of the pension increase. If I remember correctly, the legislative text on pension increases is not to increase inflation, but to increase inflation at least. So, ladies and gentlemen of the Council, there is nothing to prevent you from considering whether the 0.9 percent increase in pensions, which you believe to be the rate of inflation, is fair, according to the Hungarian National Bank, because there is still a different estimate on its website for 2017. And, of course, the magic words used here to combine VAT reductions with such a small and humiliating rate of pension increase, that 0.9 percent is not 0.9, but more, are quite amusing, if the Secretary of State allows it. I would like to raise and ask why there are no ideas about the scale of the increase at least in lanes, in line with the real rate of pension. I could do that. Don't tell me you didn't. The return to the Swiss indexation is not necessarily necessary in order to increase the pension of those with the slightest pension by more than the rate of inflation. No one wants super-pensions to be increased to a greater extent, but they do want 0.9 percent not to be considered a real pension increase, because it is not. I ask you, why don't you think that not only those who are young and want children to be born... they should appreciate the older ones? That's what retirement is all about. However, if the public combines this with the law on parental responsibility, it is possible to see rather gloomy clouds on this branch, not that a person can live a decent pension from his contribution to life. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr State Secretary said that it is not good to compare social expenditure to GDP or to look at its proportions. However, in the case of health care, I say that this is necessary and important. Indeed, where health benefits from a greater and greater share of GDP, coupled, of course, with a well-thought-out health system, health care is better. This causality may not be denied. The money that healthcare is now receiving from the budget does not reach, let alone the European level, but also the Visegrád countries. Therefore, rather than communicating with them, I would have preferred to be able to discover the intention that really wants to improve health care positions. Typically, the Secretary of State, who is unfortunately not present now, although I was very pleased to have just been involved in the debate, does not have a concept of health care, but does have points: capital super-hospital or not, we can't decide that yet, because there is quite a variety of news spread around the world; a chancellor system, which, as practically a commissary of hospitals, would encourage them to come out of little money; an extension of the chronic classes into the social sector, which I don't know what you're hoping for, because if these people have to be provided, it will cost money there, and here too. And although the Parliamentary Secretary of State of the Ministry said not so long ago that it would be equally free in the social sphere to provide care for these old people and, by the way, sick people, as in health care, we regret that otherwise it is not free, many hospitals, in one form or another, are asking for a fee or contribution to care. Let you judge whether it is moral for you to be old and, as I say, to care only for sick people and not to cure them; in this, my opinion is quite spurious: no, and I do not think that this would be a significant income for health care. Among the points of the Secretary of State was to put the basic supply in a better position, which we have already discussed on a two-minute pretext not so long ago in this House. As an example, I brought up the statement by the Hungarian Medical Chamber, which is very, very heavy in health care, on this issue, which, on the one hand, complained that they were not negotiated with them, and on the other, that the promises were not close to the actual figures in the budget, because not only the general practitioners working in primary care, but also the patrons and dentists will benefit from this money, i.e. from the existing one, so a significant improvement in the general medical system, where there are unfulfilled practices, and which we know what problems they are struggling with, there is no. I therefore claim that this health care is unfairly underfunded in this budget, and that if the Secretary of State for Health thinks that it is possible to survive with fire, he is wrong. Typically, in addition to the big slogans - this is the budget for home creation and tax cuts - two areas are always mentioned: education and health, where the house burns the most among workers. So I see that neither the stopping of emigration, nor the seducing of doctors, nor the seducing of nurses, can be achieved in the current situation, and that even more and more overloaded and impossible workers will provide or cure patients in the institutions, workers who are very few. I would add that hospital consolidation will also get the most out of the health improvements already promised, since there is something to be done with hospital debt, and now to consider whether this is the way of normal financing if there is consolidation every year, because it is likely that it is not irresponsible economic directors and directors who are dumping money with both hands, but that the institutions need it so much. Finally, to join my partner in the county, István Apáti, who mentioned an escape route that would make life easier for people living in Szatmár: I sign, the roads are in a completely true, catastrophic situation, and the truck traffic is pounding on them through villages. I mention what is my personal problem, the roads leading up to the M3 motorway, which are also in a catastrophic state, and with which nothing has been happening for years now, which is interesting not only because it is more convenient to drive on the right road, but also because companies located next to the M3 are considering leaving because they cannot transport their products or raw materials safely on these roads. [[18.40]] I do not see this in the budget, so obviously I would like to propose an amendment in this. That is all I wanted to say, Mr President, thank you for the opportunity and thank you for the floor.
u2016-05-11-108	Thank you very much, Congressman. On behalf of the Government, Mr Péter Benő Banai wishes to speak now. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2016-05-11-109	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Mr Tukacs has made several statements on which there is nothing more to be done than to deny them or to argue with the statements. The first statement was where the zero budget is, or it is a budget, a zero budget, as we do not see a budget elsewhere in Europe or in the world. Well, honourable Member, I am referring to Germany as a country that has been mentioned in your contribution, and where, in the case of operating expenditure, the so-called Golden Rule, the state spends as much money on operating expenditure as it is available from revenue, no more. In addition to the available resources, loans are available for investments. In this economic philosophy, the budget has been made in a new structure, and I think that organisations independent of the government consider this to be progress, and I think that the new structure clearly determines that no more money can be spent by the state than the amount of current income. As regards the soundness of the budget and the knowledge of the tax laws and the so-called foundational bill, I must draw the attention of the honourable Parliament, the honourable Members, to the fact that the two tax laws and the bill establishing the budget are before the Parliament. Thus, the draft budget law was drawn up in line with the above-mentioned legislative proposals, and one of the points of the Parliament's debate is, in my opinion, that the amendment of the budget figures and the related legislation can take place together. As far as bureaucracy is concerned, it has been said several times, but I have to repeat that next year's draft budget expects savings of HUF 32 billion from the restructuring of the ministerial background institutions, as well as additional budgetary payments. And where you see a raise in the institutions, Congressman, it is because of the increase in wages of officials of district or county government offices. So I think that there are expenditures that are increasing in terms of the functioning of the state, but these are expenditure increases that have been welcomed by a large part of the Members so far. [[István Tukacs: Welcome...]] Hungarian National Bank. With regard to the National Bank of Hungary, it is first of all appropriate to state that the Hungarian National Bank operates under the new management with a profit and a significant profit. [[Dr. István Józsa: Come on!]] In the second point, it is appropriate to state that Hungary, as a member of the European Union, must respect the separation and independence of monetary policy and fiscal policy. According to this, the central bank's management board will decide on the outcome. This is not a Hungarian-specific provision; as an EU Member State, this independence, this sharp separation between monetary policy and fiscal policy, must be done. I regard as a particularly positive process that the central bank reserves a significant part of its profits, so that no possible loss would require a budgetary contribution and, on the other hand, the debt can be reduced by the payment of HUF 50 billion. Thus, unlike in some previous years, the functioning of the central bank does not require additional public expenditure, on the one hand, and on the other hand, the central bank contributes to a reduction in public debt. As regards the tax revenue projections and the tax revenue figures, Mr President, I understand you would like to see an additional tax in the budget. [[István Tukacs: Andy Vajna absolutely! It's for him! The president's ringing the bell.]] As regards the whitening of the economy and the greater proportion of legal revenues, the government has been and will continue to strive to increase revenue by reducing the grey and black economy. If the Member considers this to be important, I trust that he will support an amendment to next year's budget or tax laws by proposing to extend the online cash register system, to introduce an electronic account system or to widen the EKAER. As far as casinos are concerned, yes, it is important for incomes to be visible in all areas. And I can tell Congressman that there is a special review at casinos, and the facts show that state revenue from the operation of casinos has increased, has not decreased, has increased in recent years. [[Dr. István Józsa: Because there wasn't before!]] Health. In 2012, the first public sector wage increase was made in the field of health, followed by another wage increase in 2013. It can be said that this is little and that more should be ensured in all areas, my statement is that the government has made a wage increase in the years when the European way was, to put it this way, the opposite of the countries from a situation like Hungary. We have often said that we have received quite a number of recommendations, if I may say so, and I myself have received concrete proposals to reduce public sector workers' wages by the government. That's not what happened. And if we look at GDP-related indicators, let me talk about health, let me look at how health-related expenditure has evolved in those countries that were in a similar economic situation to Hungary, Greece, Spain, Portugal or I could mention Italy. I report that health expenditure in relation to GDP has decreased in these countries, to a significant extent in all countries, with real GDP in addition to all the countries mentioned falling very significantly. So, compared to a declining GDP, health expenditure has been reduced. I have often said that real GDP has increased by 8.8 percent between 2010 and 2015, nominal GDP has increased by 19 percent by the end of 2014, and health spending has remained virtually in proportion to GDP. Health expenditures have increased nominally. From this perspective, it is also worth looking at the budgetary processes so far, and that the 2017 budget bill envisages an additional expenditure of nearly HUF 167 billion in health care. There are tasks ahead of us, no doubt, but the source is available. As far as the concept is concerned, it is a very clear concept, I think since 2010 - and the Secretary of State Ónodi-Szűcs has repeatedly stressed this - that the focus of health is man; it is not the institution, the man, and the healthy man. Therefore, let us also talk about the success that has been achieved so far in the field of sport, everyday sport or the public health measures you have mentioned. I repeat, we have a number of tasks ahead of us, but the results we have so far need not be withheld. I would like to switch to the pension, where, first of all, I have to record that since 2010 in Hungary the real value of pensions has remained either at the level or has increased, every year. Overall, we have seen a significant rise in real pensions since 2010. [[Dr. István Józsa: It's a story!]] I can now mention again the countries with which Hungary can be compared. Yesterday's news: Greece proposes another pension reduction. [[Dr. István Józsa: Should we be happy now? Interview from Jobbik: Let's see Austria! The president's ringing the bell.]] Congressmen, that's the thing. In 2010, there was a situation in Hungary where... [[Dr. István Józsa: Don't believe it!]] I repeat, take a look at international examples. [[Dr. István Józsa: Professional error!]] Many countries have reduced pensions and public sector wages. [[18.50]] This is not the way Hungary has chosen, and the fact that we have been out of the overdeficit procedure, that Hungary is mentioned in the OECD country report now as an example in many cases, that our country risk premium is a fraction of the 2010 level, that our growth has been above the EU average for years, and that the number of employees has increased significantly - the number of employees is persistently above 4.2 million - shows that this economic policy was successful and that the government intends to continue on this economic policy line in 2017. If, I can only say, it is considered important that the real value of pensions is maintained so that health care can benefit from additional resources, then I respectfully ask that you support the proposal for next year's budget. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-05-11-110	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. The next speaker from the KDNP Group is Mr András Aradszki. Here you go, Congressman.
u2016-05-11-111	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear House, When we looked at the figures, directions and economic philosophy of the 2017 budget and looked at it, one wondered what economic historical analogy could be associated with this budget. One remembered the German budget of the 1960s, the growth and state of the economies of Germany and Sweden in the 1960s, the period of the creation of the so-called welfare world. What did we see from the economic data at that time, on what basis was the world created, which we called for a long time, especially during communism, but also after the change of regime? This included Sweden, the Netherlands, Germany, in general - I say as a Catholic - farming based on Protestant ethics, focusing on hard work, which is worth value, which is an example of saving value and to follow. During that period, these economies, the budgets of these states, were characterised by a dynamic economic growth with a low budget deficit, manageable, with inflation close to zero and 1 percent, with falling unemployment, I should almost say they were close to full employment, and their public debt was so high that they could bravely invest, develop the economy and give fiscal impulses to economic growth. In addition, social security has been strengthened, pension systems have stabilised. If we look at the current figures that characterize the Hungarian economy from 2013, we can also say these fundamentals about the Hungarian economy. A declining, low budget deficit, we have kept the EU requirement continuously since 2013, and our deficit-to-GDP ratio must not be more than 3 per cent, and even this has decreased in recent years to such an extent that I think it is one of the economic wonders. In addition, inflation has declined steadily. Of course, there were internal and external factors in this, an external factor is the reduction in energy prices, and the internal factor is that the Hungarian government bravely implemented the reduction of the rent at a time when this energy price was not justified, we just felt it, but rather we knew that the reduction of the rent was sustainable in the long term, because there are prices, price conditions in the energy market and other services markets that can be used in the long term. With low inflation, the Hungarian economy is characterised by low unemployment and long-awaited low unemployment. At present, unemployment rates are 6.5 per cent, compared with other countries - Greece, Spain, Italy, and even France - where this is around 10 per cent. They say that in a country, 5 percent unemployment means that only those who don't want to work don't work anymore. This 6.5 percent represents a difference of 1.5 percentage points, but if we translate for those seeking work, if we look at the individual's face, the individual's ambition, it still gives us room for improvement and for us to continue the economic policy whose primary aim is to create jobs and to achieve the 1 million new jobs that we promised in 2010. At present, we are not in a bad situation, and almost 400 000 new jobs have been created in the country compared to 2010, which, I think, is a very good result on a pro rata basis. With regard to the labour situation, the situation of workers, economic growth is more than 2.5 per cent on a regular basis, and the directions show that we will achieve 3 per cent or perhaps even a higher economic growth. This indicates that in certain locations, in certain professions, there is no longer unemployment in certain occupational sectors, but a shortage of labour. In this respect, I must also say that the dynamic and yet planned development of the economy may have caught our education system a little off guard, that we were not prepared in good time for prepared, skilled workers to be here, and that they would be able to fill the labour shortage, and that we could provide the organisations with the right skills. But as I see the budgetary directions and the educational ideas, in a year or two, we will be over this problem, and we can help with this issue. If we look at this, we need to ask what challenge there is in addition, which we need to take into account when meeting the budget. The budgets adopted from 2013 - I also arrived at the 2017 draft - primarily aim to ensure that the Hungarian state, the Hungarian economy, is self-sustaining. In addition to self-preservation, it also seeks to create self-sustaining economic development and economic prosperity and economic stability based on its own base. This objective must meet a very important challenge, namely that, even after the end of the EU support cycle ending after 2020, we should still be able to grow by 3, 5 or perhaps even more, even with low inflation, low unemployment, declining public debt and a government deficit. Therefore, it is an important instrument and image of the budget presented to us that it controls inflation, controls the general government deficit, does not spend, and its very important aim is to provide significant resources in terms of operating costs, with a budget of zero, in addition to European resources, i.e. budget resources, to stimulate economic growth, to create stability and sustainable growth of the Hungarian economy. Economic development, the fiscal policy of 2017 follows the path that has already started, by creating and implementing new instruments, by setting new priorities for economic growth. [[19.00]] This economic growth will ensure support for families, reducing the debt burden and keeping the budget deficit below 3 per cent. This stable fiscal and predictable economic policy, which has been implemented in previous years, has enabled this budget to serve the implementation of the largest home-building programme of the past period. This home creation programme, together with the family support system, can ensure, ensure, create the economic foundations that can respond to one of the nation's greatest challenges, the demographic situation, which is not nearly as tragic as the demographic situation that we took over in 2010. There is a positive shift, even though it is not visible in the number of births, but it is noticeable that the number of divorces is decreasing, the number of marriages is increasing, and there is also a direction in which the rate of population loss is slowing down. These are all positive messages that a successful and consistent draft budget, such as the draft budget for 2017, will help. [[Dr. István Hiller, vice-president of the Parliament, takes the chair.]] In the following year, it is important to ensure that EU funds are involved as effectively as possible in order to boost the economy. The government intends to allocate 60% of development resources to micro- and medium-sized enterprises in order to strengthen job creation, which requires economic development based on increasing competitiveness. This is estimated at HUF 12,000 billion between 2014 and 2020. I think that if we can overcome that obstacle in 2017, we can tackle the difficulty that makes such calls difficult and difficult between changing ages and changing periods, and we can survive, then that 3-percent economic growth will be achieved. However, there are also domestic economic development resources in the budgetary system. Thus, as I said, the rise of the home creation programme, the significant reduction, reduction of the tax burden on basic foodstuffs, further reduction of the family tax burden, continuation of the public work programme, further enforcement of the principle of work instead of aid - all this can bring added value to boosting the economy, increasing employment and thus increasing the real value of actions. A comment to the home creation programme is that HUF 210 billion will be allocated to this programme. Tax administration and tax procedure measures that help to whiteen the economy will continue to be very important in order to ensure the stability of the economy and of the budget, public burden-sharing will indeed be a burden, and tax revenues thus generated will provide an opportunity for the Hungarian economy to be better prepared for the period after 2020 and for further job creation programmes to be implemented. Returning to the importance of job creation programmes, I have to say that Hungary has been at a very good pace in recreating the Hungarian industry, giving strength and momentum to the Hungarian economy, because, by the way, it was seen, especially in the 1990s, but also in the 1980s, that European industry started and emigrated to China, far-eastern countries. Today, this European industry is starting to come back again, and the country that can lead this process and ensure the conditions for the operation of industry and the economy will be successful. As I mentioned at the outset, an economic policy which is not uncertain, but on a sound basis, and does not go hand in hand with the indebtedness of development, the state or the farming organisations themselves, which becomes a barrier to economic development, or may result in a breakdown of the economy. I believe that the process starting from 2013 will take a very important step forward with the adoption of the 2017 budget. I consider it important to mention the provisions ensuring the inclusion of the programme of modern cities and its budgetary coverage among the budget lines. The programme of the modern cities started in 2015 and aimed at modernising the various Hungarian rural cities, increasing their competitiveness and cultural attractiveness and improving the quality of life of citizens. The 2015 central budget included HUF 25 billion as an appropriation for this, and a significant amount of this will be included in the budget of the 16th, which, I understand, will be around HUF 50 billion, at least according to the draft submitted. Compared to this, the presentation in 2017 contains 152 billion HUF for the programme of modern cities. The county-righted city of my constituency, Érd will also take part in this 152 billion forints in 2017. Our plans and hopes will amount to HUF 21 billion. This will help to make high traffic roads and urban hubs safer. And most importantly, because the entire programme was launched by Érd, we can also finance the creation of a new industrial-economic zone with this amount. In order to ensure that, although it is the largest town in my constituency with county rights, its economic, industrial and other tax production capabilities, I do not want to offend the Salgótarjánians, but even less than the Salgótarjánians. It is therefore highly justified to grant such aid from a central, domestic budget source, because Érd, given that it is in Pest County, belongs to the central region, is entitled to very, very limited EU aid. But beyond the establishment of the economic zone, there will be the renovation and development of a system of public education, vocational training, social and health institutions. As I mentioned earlier, the lack of a workforce in terms of the lack of skilled workers, in this city a very modern vocational training centre will be established. I think this also shows the government's commitment to provide 150 billion forints where development is needed, but it is not possible to involve EU funds. I see, House, that the draft budget, the draft budget for 2017, gives the funds a balanced, good position, gives the development opportunities in a good place, ensures that the benefits are maintained and, where possible, the development of those that can serve the future of the Hungarian economy. This is how I think about education, vocational training and areas that can improve people's well-being. But we must also remember the requirement that the competitiveness of the Hungarian economy still needs to be improved. On the part of KDNP, I can fully agree with the bureaucracy reduction package that is able to put red tape in Hungary to the level that our competitors, our best competitors, have, I am thinking of Germany or the Czech Republic. This can add added value to the Hungarian economy in order to be able to prepare for the state of its own right to ensure its development and ensure long-term livelihood and prosperity for future generations. I hope that, during the debate on the draft budget, more and more people will be able to recognise its values, and the opposition will also be able to support this budget, which will be an important budget for the Hungarian future. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]] [[19.10]]
u2016-05-11-112	Thank you very much, Congressman. Welcome back. Before continuing our work, it is my duty to inform you that Mr Péter Harrach, Head of Group, informed the House that KDNP will renounce its remaining timeframe for the benefit of the Fidesz-Hungarian Civic Alliance Group. [[Ildikó Bangóné Borbély: Well! We're out of KDNP!]] We now have a line of pre-notified speakers; first, Mr Zsolt Egyed, Jobbik. Here you go.
u2016-05-11-113	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, With regard to the 2017 budget, I would like to highlight some areas of life that are not covered in this budget, and I think we are talking about very important things. But before I get to that, I was very impressed by what the Secretary of State said about pensions. The Secretary of State presented the pension increase and the current situation of pensioners in Hungary to this House as if it were a success story. Mr Secretary of State, I think that a 0.9 percent pension increase in 2017 is not a success story, but a disgrace. [[Bangóné Borbély Ildikó: But the egg will be cheaper!]] Start thinking about what the average pensioner's pension is like, Mr. Secretary. You know, we're not talking about hundreds of thousands of forints of pensions, we're talking about people living in rural or small towns with a pension of 70-80-90 thousand forints. The pension increase you have planned means an increase of exactly 600-700 forints per month, which is virtually not enough for anything. I know you're going to explain by bringing down the egg VAT and chicken meat, but, Mr. Secretary of State, imagine that these pensioners are paying electricity bills, paying gas bills, using services that will be paid in the same way as you and I. I don't know if we, you or me, or anyone in this House had to solve this out of 70,000 forints, what we'd do, we'd probably be in trouble and he'd have a problem. My advice, Mr. Secretary, is to talk to pensioners who make that kind of money and listen to their opinions. I believe that a 0.9 percent increase is an insult to pensioners for a pension of 70-80-90,000 HUF. So I think you should taste that a little bit. The other thing I wanted to tell you, and I am very sorry that my fellow Member Aradski has left... [[Dr. András Aradski: I'm here!]] Oh, I'm sorry. [[Dr. András Aradski: I'm listening! Ildikó Bangóné Borbély: Change of chair!]] Congressman Aradski is here. [[Dr. András Aradski: I'm small, I can't see!]] He also hit my ear, as you said, that in Hungary, those who do not want to work do not work. [[Dr. András Aradski: I didn't say that!]] That's what you said, Congressman, respectfully, look into the record. [[Dr. András Aradszki: At 5% unemployment, it usually means...]] Yeah, usually. Usually in Hungary, anyone who wants to or doesn't want to doesn't work, that was pretty much the point. Honourable Member, I would recommend that you look around Eastern Hungary and the countryside, because a large part of the people, I say, would like to work and connect to the place where you live, you only have to leave that town and town because you simply cannot find your livelihood, you cannot support your family. If you are in a lucky position, you can participate in the Start Work Programme, it doesn't matter whether you have completed a primary school or a college, there is no other job. I think that in this case, it is absolutely not true that everyone who wants to work can work. I don't think anyone who graduated from a higher education institution had the desire to spend their life as a public worker out of 50-60 thousand forints. So I think that this is once again an insult from you to Hungarian society. Believe me, life in Budapest and the countryside is completely different. I sign that if you have a good profession, you can find a job sooner in Budapest, but people who live in a village in the countryside are tied to their hands, their property is unsellable, so they can do nothing but take their family and go to a better place beyond the Danube, or go to London, go to Austria, go to Germany. Unfortunately, this is the Hungarian reality. You referred to the unemployment rate here. It is also abundantly involved, honourable Member, in the fact that a large part of the able-bodied people work outside and live abroad, so this should also be taken into account. [[Dr. András Aradski: Counted!]] But I would like to turn back to what I originally said, which I wanted to talk about in relation to the 2017 budget. It is first and very important that more people have spoken to me about health in this House, but I would like to highlight a segment of it, which, I believe, is the Alpha of the whole of health. And this is the basic care, the situation of the general practitioners, which is, in a calm manner, lamentable in Hungary today. There is a reason that more than 300 GP practices are currently unfilled in Hungary. But it is possible to move on here: we would get very interesting data, and I think that if we started to look at how much a general doctor in Hungary is still practicing, but he has already passed the retirement age. I think we'd get shocking numbers. These practices are almost impossible to operate in addition to the current funding, and there is no sufficient resources at all to be able to operate. How does a GP practice work? In an average practice, the number of patients gives support to the GP, which is approximately 1 million, 1 million, 200,000 forints. The reason I know this is because I've been talking to a lot of GPs about this lately. From this you pay your office's rent, you pay for used software, you pay your assistant and all the expenses necessary to maintain the practice. A general doctor in Miskolc told me: do you know, honourable Member, how much money will be paid if all these costs come down? Mr Secretary, you have 170 thousand net salaries left in your pocket. But that's not over, because you're gonna have to keep the passenger car that you might be able to get out to the infirmary. So I think it is a wonder, with such funding, that there are still so many general practitioners in Hungary, when there is another option for them. Unfortunately, more and more people are using it, because if you take a practice like this in any Western European country or go to work as a doctor, you will earn at least ten times that amount, but maybe twenty times that. There are examples of this, by the way. I also talked to a doctor who has been practicing outside for 8-10 years, and I don't have to say, he says he doesn't want to come back to Hungary because he doesn't see his future as insured, and unfortunately, this is true in many areas of life. If I have already talked about Hungary of the countryside and about the practice, the existence and non-existence of a family doctor, I think that it is necessary to mention Hungary of the countryside in terms of funding and other aspects. I am talking about the villages in particular, and we can say that this is especially true for the counties of Borsod-Abaúj-Zemplén, Nógrád and Szabolcs, these villages are simply being depopulated. One of the reasons I was just talking about was the lack of a proper job. The other reason is that there is no possibility of improvements in these villages, because a village which does not have any income from business taxes, others, is virtually vegetal, can not make any development, the least of which is done on its own. Now imagine, fellow Members, a man of the age who raises young children, has to work, has to work, his wife has to work, so that he can continue his life and life in a settlement where there is no school, there is no kindergarten, there is no post office, there is nothing, and he may have to work 40-50 kilometers to live and support his family. Obviously, a lot of people are trying to do this, but, unfortunately, the result is that sooner or later, these people are going to move into the city, because they simply can't manage their lives. The outcome of this must be that our villages are being depopulated. I do not have to say it here in this House, and I think a lot of people agree with me on this, that one of the pillars of the Hungarians and the Hungarian nation and one of its retainers has always been the Hungarians in the countryside. This is practically on the brink of an end in 2016. [[19.20]] So I believe that the government, and therefore the budget created by the government, should be included in this, so that we can see at all the will that, yes, the government is committed and determined to save Hungary in the countryside and to preserve for posterity the otherwise beautiful and livable places that are being depopulated simply because people do not have the opportunity to live locally. The other very important issue I wanted to discuss in the budget debate is the situation of civil society organisations and foundations, because there is quite a spread here too. There are a lot of foundations and organisations that, in my opinion, are oversupported, and there are a lot of foundations and civil society organisations that, apart from collecting 1% of taxes, have been operating for ten, twenty or even more years on their own. Now we could talk about all sorts of foundations without the need for completeness, but I would also like to highlight one, a foundation and an association, which is important to me because it is my people. On the other hand, it is very important to me because they have already placed something on the table, and to this day they will not receive a HUF budget subsidy, and this is the Spider Rescue Group in Miskolc, which - I spoke to László Lehoczki today, their leader - has returned from Ecuador a few days ago, at their own expense, with their own money, with their own equipment to save this country, Hungary, from the good news of our country to the world. I think it is very unfair that, for example, the rescue team whose members are trained mountain climbers, divers, professionals, when they are not in the field, do not operate in such a way - do you know what they do to make a living? One of them puts billboards on a company during the day, and the other posters on a billboard, and after that, when their work hours are over, when an alarm comes, they go looking for the dead, or they go looking for the living, they go to the disaster situations to find the survivors. I think that this is an extremely unworthy thing, and I ask the honourable members of the Government and I ask the Government, too, I have tabled an amendment so that this foundation and this association can receive the appropriate support, so that they can carry out their basic functions. And if you see that you deserve it on the basis of your work over the last 25 years, then I would ask you to support my amendment. Finally, I would like to talk about a subject which, as many have said, is a pawn to me here in this House, but I also think that it is underappreciably underestimated and also works with zero support, and that is the hopeless and impossible situation of animal protection and, in particular, the operators of animal shelters, in which they are in Hungary today. Ladies and gentlemen, If we look at this issue in a realistic way, these organisations and the animal protection groups that have put their lives on it are basically performing a public task, since stray animals or stray animals are collected from public areas and kept until their owners are found somewhere else. Here in the animal protection society and in all good people it has been formulated several times, and in my personal opinion, too, that the current fieldmaster operations are not at all XXI. 100th-century and not European solutions at all. On the basis of experience and consultations with animal defenders, I would certainly see the right solution if these lawn-master farms were to be gradually transferred to civil animal protection organisations that, in practice, do not regard animals as pieces, not as objects, but as doing their best to bring them to a civilised farm. The line here would also be very long if I started to list these organizations, that they have been operating for twenty or more years out of practically 1 percent tax, with zero support. They can function by taking the last one away from their families so that they can feed the animals or create the necessary conditions. I believe that, and I have received feedback on this, when the Animal Protection Act was a debate, as well as from my fellow Members who have Fidesz, that animal protection is also important to them. I urge my fellow Members then, on this subject I have tabled 105 amendments to the budget so that these organisations have a minimum base to do their job. There is no need to imagine large amounts here, but really less than the minimum amount from the point of view of the budget, which is necessary to enable them to operate. So I believe that if you, fellow pro-government Members, really consider the role of animal protection to be important in Hungarian society, then these amendments will be supported, and I believe that to everyone's satisfaction, at last, a group, a social category, of course, animal defenders, will receive support in Hungary from which they will be able to work at European level and in a civilised way. Finally, I would like to say that the other very important issue in relation to animal protection is here, and by the way, with which money could be saved in the long term, I have said this many times here in this House, that a national neutering action should be launched by the government at all times. If someone travels to a country that's luckier than us, say Western Europe, and goes through, say, Austria, they won't meet any stray animals. Do you know why? Because they take it for granted, and they did it decades ago. So I think that we are not behind, and we should separate a sum for that, because the return on this is multiple, up to five times, ten times, if we are thinking in the long term. I believe that once again we have taken a step towards civilised European livestock farming and that we have taken a step towards what a lot of people here and everyone in their minds are doing. We imagine it as a century - I think it is part of it. So I ask my fellow Members to support my proposals. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2016-05-11-114	Thank you very much. Congressman Zoltán Demeter, Fidesz, the next speaker. Here you go.
u2016-05-11-115	Mr President, Dear fellow Members, At the time of the establishment of the 2014 Parliament, a new committee structure was established under the new Parliamentary Act and the Rules of the House. Previously, the Human Rights Committee was responsible for the ecclesiastical, ethnic and civil areas; from spring 2014, legislative tasks in these areas have been dealt with by the Judicial Committee. As previously the Human Rights Committee, I am now a member of the Judicial Committee, and I am convinced that the areas concerned should be treated as a priority. Many of them, of course, were of the opinion, especially the opposition, in a negative sense, that structural change would not bring about a qualitative change. However, as demonstrated by the 2017 budget proposal before us, these fears were not well founded, and, in addition to supporting families and creating homes, churches, ethnicities and the civil society sector are also highlighted in the proposal. Dear Parliament, Today I feel that the debate on the relationship between the state and the church has come to a standstill. Perhaps few question - and perhaps it does not make much sense - the need for cooperation between the state and the church, which is also enshrined in the Fundamental Law. [[19.30]] In view of the involvement of churches in the tasks of achieving Community objectives, the State shall grant specific rights. On the basis of this principle, the budgetary support provided under the legislation is a government instrument to facilitate cooperation between the State and established churches, a significant part of which has been legally determined. I would like to stress that the main benefit of this bilateral cooperation is the third party, that is to say, we citizens, and I am not just talking about spiritual care. In my opinion, working together in social, educational and many other sectors in all areas is almost fruitful and exemplary. In addition to the importance of financial support, I would like to emphasise the community-sustaining power of the churches here, and I therefore consider it very important that small settlements and sporadic church subsidies are available to church persons serving in settlements of less than 5 thousand inhabitants. For the same reason, it is of great importance to support those serving abroad, which refers to the internal legal person of the Church and its internal legal person, and to support the development of religious institutions across the border, which can also contribute to the preservation of Hungarians living in sporadics. Dear Parliament, As a Reformed Pastor, it is a special pleasure for me that the government will continue to prioritise the support of the Reformation Memorial Committee's programmes, on which it will provide HUF 1.1 billion in 2017. Activities related to the Reformation Memorial Year, programs of the Government 1035/2015. As a result of its decision No 13, they started in 2015. The tasks planned for 2017 are to support the creation of educational programmes, exhibitions and media works presenting Protestantism in Hungary and presenting the Reformation and its impact, as well as the publication of thematic proposals, the presentation of publications, the implementation of priority investments and the compilation of the Hungarian Protestant scientific repository in the Carpathian Basin. It is also important to encourage and assist the organisation of rural programmes, and it is also important for the implementation of this programme in relation to the 2017 jubilee, so that, thinking in a united nation, Hungarians across the border can continue to participate in the Reformation commemorations, both through scientific, artistic and faith-life programmes. And I'm also happy about that, and my heart is kind to the establishment of the Don Bosco Sports Centre in Kazincbarcika Salézi, in my constituency. The construction started IV. In order to achieve its pace, the resources provided by the 2017 budget are now necessary to complete the investment. It is also welcome to support the renovation and modernisation of the Reformed High School and Primary School of Baksay Sándor in Kunszentmiklós. Among the great initiatives I can mention the development of the Regnum house or the church in Bakáts tér and the renovation of the Vitéz János College in Esztergom, not to mention the reconstruction of the Basilica of Nagyboldogság Győr. I hope that, in addition to the investments listed and noted, training, youth clubs and, of course, summer camping as well as non-school training and services provided by church schools can also be implemented. In the light of what has already been said, the religious activities of religious communities across the border, living in sporadics and supporting the survival of Hungarians, as well as their cultural, educational and community-building programmes, are also very, very important; as is the fact that sporadic parishes can receive financial assistance for the construction, renovation of their infrastructure, publication of their liturgical and other publications in Hungarian, and for the implementation of their community programmes and projects. The budget can also finance the support and encouragement of church initiatives, the operational costs and related investments of religious charities, crisis management and multi-tasking facilities, along with programmes to assist disadvantaged small-scale catch-ups. Dear Parliament, Speaking of catching up, we should not forget that the budget also provides for programmes and specialised schools to compensate for the socio-economic disadvantage, to compensate for regional disadvantages. The budget provides resources to support, inter alia, model employment programmes. Competitive programmes of model quality help people and settlements prepare to participate in social economy-type programmes. It is also an important goal for sustainability and further development to reconnect the experience of catching-up programmes. The primary objective of the government is to bring an increasing proportion of those involved in public employment to the social economy, and to help the primary labour market with active labour market tools later on, or to become self-sustaining. This appropriation is intended to cover the social land programme, which promotes the livelihood of socially disadvantaged people. In the framework of the application programme to facilitate market access, the cultivation of kitchen plants and the provision of the conditions for keeping pets, the provision of a social land programme with public employment, and the purchase of equipment for organisations carrying out agricultural production can also be eligible. One of the pillars of catching up is education and, in particular, the promotion of equal opportunities and talent for disadvantaged students in this area. The budget also covers support for the operation of Roma ethnic education institutions, the further establishment and support for the functioning of specialised schools, as well as the promotion and support of further innovative solutions. Among the scholarship programmes, I would like to highlight the Travelling Chances Programme, for which more than HUF 1 billion is available in 2017. Programmes that promote the school success of disadvantaged pupils, especially Roma, provide scholarships and mentorships from the 7th grade of primary school to higher education. [[19.40]] The main point of the program is to accompany the student and student with continuous mentoring support from primary school to university. The Travel Scholarship Programme contributes to achieving the goals set out in the Hungarian National Social Catch-up Strategy in II and in the medium-term strategy against unqualified school leaving. The Travel Scholarship Programme supports thousands of students and students - at least 50 percent of whom are Roma - each year and promotes the achievement of the objectives, indicators and competitiveness of many strategic documents. Of course, we must not forget, in addition to the support of national authorities, the support of the various ethnic institutions. In the maintenance of minority self-governments and associations a total of 114 ethnic institutions operate, of which 74 institutions maintain the national minority self-government, 35 institutions maintain the municipal, ethnical self-government, while an institution maintainer of an association. The 2017 budget will also provide adequate coverage of the costs of the institutions maintained by the national minority authorities and their associated tasks. I would also like to briefly mention the National Cooperation Fund for the management of civil society organisations. The draft law shows that in 2017, 370 million more resources are available to the fund and to the civil sector, so that it can contribute nearly HUF 5.3 billion in total to the creation of the operating funds of civil society organisations, the recognition of their socially useful and community-creating activities, the promotion of their public interest and public benefit activities. Finally, I would also like to speak briefly about the national talent programme. Like this year's budget, next year's budget will also provide significant resources for the National Talent Programme, whose basic goal is to develop talent, identify talent and continuously help. The National Talent Programme is a complex programme that brings together public, municipal and civil programmes, coordinating the use of state resources and the development resources of the European Union. The promotion and development of talent will serve to stimulate and promote innovation and creativity, create opportunities, combat disadvantage, steer careers in the right direction, success, social mobility, economic growth, competitiveness and the cohesion of communities and society as a whole. Dear Parliament, All in all, therefore, we can say of the budget bill before us that it is for community creation, whether it be from ecclesiastical, ethnic or even civil territory. Investments, programmes and grants made can benefit and benefit the public. That is why I ask the Honourable Parliament to support the bill. Thank you. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-05-11-116	Thank you very much. Our next speaker was Congresswoman Bernadett Szél, LMP. Here you go.
u2016-05-11-117	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen of the Government, The thing is, a budget in the country's life is always a moment of truth. This is when we can verify how the parties we have honored with our vote are stewards of our common wealth. You say, my fellow Members from Fidesz and KDNP, that the 2017 budget is a budget for tax reductions and home creation. I think this is partly correct, because there will be homes for people - but who will have homes, and who will be able to give up again with this budget to get home? Whose taxes are reduced, whose taxes are reduced, whose taxes are reduced. I have often told you that the biggest problem with Fidesz and KDNP - apart from the great corruption - is that you give to the people who already have one, and those who have less, do not help to catch up or stay in place. That is why I do not agree with Prime Minister Viktor Orbán's statement that everyone can take a step forward, because the situation is - and this budget is also about - that those who are rich can run one kilometer forward, and those who are poor will stay in one place and may even move back. This imbalance can be seen in this entire budget. I listened with interest to my fellow Member, Mr Fidesz, particularly to the part about you returning public workers to the open labour market through the social economy. I would have believed you if we were going to write 2010 or 11 now, but it's 2016 and we're talking about the 2017 budget. I am going to talk about employment and social aspects, and the thing is, I would like to expose this lie. What I see is that you have been governing for years without a job creation programme, and I do not see any efforts in this budget to create jobs. Let's go back in time again. You came to government in 2010 by saying that a million new jobs will be created here in the open labour market in ten years. That's what they said. Then it became clear to you that you could not achieve this, and then you started talking about a work-based society and full employment. You are very proud that the number of people employed in Hungary is above 4 million. But I ask you, can these people make a living with the money they get paid? [[Dr. István Józsa: Yes!]] That's my problem. I think that if a person in Hungary works his working time fairly, it should not be poor. On the other hand, the facts are stubborn and speak for themselves. In 2015, almost 42 percent of the Hungarian population lived on income below the minimum living age. This basically means that these people can't afford the narrowest thing they need to make a living. We see that every third household lived on income below the minimum living age, and in a third of single - earning families, net income was below the living threshold. I have also told you a lot about the fact that half of the taxpayers are also below the minimum level of living, and I think that if we think about it, then I think that you should spend a lot more on raising wages. When I looked at this budget, it was the first thing I looked at, how much they gave me for a raise, and I see very, very little, almost nothing, and that's the problem. In Hungary, with the help of Fidesz, a public service system has apparently been created that forces people to permanently park. This is good for you from the point of view that it really does look good in statistics, because public workers can be counted as employed, and there is full employment on paper, and there is soon a workforce of over 4 million. However, this is not an answer to the employment crisis. The public work programme does not solve the problems of Hungarian people. What I see in this budget is that you are not aware or do not want to be aware of the fact that the proportion of people living under the minimum living has not changed in six years. You've been on government for six years now, with a very high legitimacy, two-thirds twice, and then you've been a little deprived of it, but basically you still have the power to change things, but you don't change things. So it seems to you that these people, who live under the minimum living standards, will remain there, if it is up to you. I was hoping a little, given that last year we talked a lot about employee poverty here in Parliament, that you are doing something about it, but unfortunately, I see that this budget is not doing anything about it. I must add that there are some ancient mistakes that have been the Fidesz criteria for a long time now. We all know - and these are professional facts - that if we want to lead people back to the open labour market, we have to give them active support, a lot of things in order to become employable, start up businesses, and everyone agrees at professional level that these active support can help people to go back to the open labour market permanently. You will give 16 billion forints for this purpose next year. And how much do they give you for community service? More than 20 times that. I think that this confession, that you have given up on active means for better wages than community service, is a way for people to work, and we can settle in permanently for community service. I think it's a deadly sin. I think that a historical mistake and your political responsibility is that in Hungary a primary labour market and a secondary labour market have been created and wages have been broken, not to mention the terrible abuse of public work. The news of the day was that in a village they were completely cheating on community service, buying never existing tools that no one had ever seen, and we also know that they took up money without any work behind it, and it's a place where we can find out. When I became a Member in 2012, I began by investigating cases where I was informed that public workers were working on private estates and private places, who, of course, are afraid to tell me what the truth is, because they are infinitely at the mercy of the local strong people - that's what we call a stump system - but I also discovered that there was practically a situation where employees were fired from their jobs and then they were taken back as public workers. This is a very insidious way of breaking wages, and according to BM data, 2303 cases of re-employment within three months have been reported by government sources over a year and a half, which is illegal. So you both admitted that it was a systemic phenomenon, and you wrote down the phrase that you gave the demon a re-employment rate, a name, so I basically saw it from the BM pen, and you promised me that you would investigate every case. I'd like to know how the investigation is going, and besides, there are people who have been taken back for three months, which, in your opinion, is not illegal, but I think it's a total abuse of community service. [[19.50]] Now we're talking about one in four state employees in this country. It's not a normal thing. I think that these people should work for decent wages, but we also know that since 2010, you have spent more than HUF 1200 billion on community service, and what is really a problem is that in the meantime, the active assets have been virtually decimated, so the funds allocated to active assets have been reduced to a third. I also see that there is a big problem in labour centres, too, and they are clearly busy administering community service, even though I remember that you promised to implement the profiling system and that the labour centres would conduct personalized counselling, modernise this system, instead virtually impossible, took away what it was. And I think that from the 100 billion forints of EU funding that would have been available for this, it should have come to the establishment of a system of customer classification, and I also think that it is a big problem that they will not allow these institutions to function correctly. If there is a central requirement to place 10,000 public workers from September to March, no matter where and no money is given to other means, there is no room for meaningful employment policy here. Of course, you're looking at it now, and you're wondering why I'm telling you all this, because I'm gonna tell you this pretty much every week. I know that this is your political goal, because you keep the country dependent, and you want to keep people dependent, but I would like to say that "Maybe Other" Politics thinks radically the opposite. We believe that there is a need for work in Hungary that can produce high added value, jobs where workers have rights - they also have responsibilities, but they also have rights - a code of work that respects the fact that workers and employers are not in the same position in the labour market, and I also think that voters who are watching mediation now [[Interview from the lines of the MSZP: They don't watch. On the Internet, tops.]] They're deeply in agreement with me on this. The other question is that they are at your mercy because you have very trickyly built a system of such dependence everywhere in the country. A lot of people are telling me that they'd love to tell their story to the television, to everyone, but they can't do it, because at that moment, they're gonna lose their job because they're gonna threaten him on the spot, they're gonna keep him in check and they're gonna blackmail him. Public work is good for this, but for this country to be strengthened, and for you to be able to fulfill the electoral promise that people made in 2010 to have a million new jobs, public work is not good for this. And then you have this community service and the job protection action plan, and that's basically what a country in employment crisis is going through. I must also add that it is also very sad that, despite the fact that labour shortages and high unemployment are present in Hungary at the same time in this economy, you do not even address this situation. We are talking about the fact that the number of unemployed people, together with public workers, is close to half a million, and there are only a hundred thousand people with secondary education among public workers, and 5800 even have a degree. Do you really think that community service is the best solution for these people? I don't think so, and I don't see it that way. There's the house building, the CSOK and the NOK, like your, I don't know, miracle weapons. You hope that if you put a lot of money into this sector in accordance with your rules and hope that it will boost construction, then we will go from one to two. My problem with this is that, on the one hand, there are a lot of people in the country who won't be able to pick up the CSOK, but let's just say that they could renovate their apartment or renovate their house, and I also think that these people deserve to be able to do that, and they should be helped to do so, just as they deserve to be helped in modernising their property and modernising their energy. We need a social housing sector, because I think that it is not morally possible for you to give up virtually everyone who earns under the average wage. Fellow Members! It just doesn't work. And if you think about the fact that there will be no quality vocational training and no decent wages for skilled workers, then who will do this project? Because I think that more and more people will be in Germany, England, and who knows where to work, more and more women - they say - are leaving this country at the best parenting age, with 1-2 percent a few years ago, and now they're making it 7-9 percent. These women are going to give birth out there in these countries, and these families are going to grow up there. Do you think they'll come home? I don't think so. These kids will be out there raising you, and we can give up these people. I think if they had a little insight into the demographic crisis in this country, they would have helped these people come home. According to our research, half of them still want to come home, connect to Hungary, want to be home, but cannot afford it. Let me draw your attention to the fact that there are a lot of single-parent mothers, so those who raise their children alone must choose to leave Hungary, because they have neither found a nursery for their children nor a job that would have made a living for them and their children. And out there, he had all the work he could do, he could support his child, he had a nursery where he could have his child enrolled, and there are complete Hungarian colonies next to him, so family and friends don't have to be missed so much. When will this goose turn over, and when will it be that more and more Hungarian people say that I am leaving because I have no hope here, and I can still hope for something out there? An irreplaceable loss, I think. So what I can say to you, in summary, is that this budget would be much better if, instead of forcing public work to do so, instead of investing energy and taxpayers' money in training. Unemployed people need to launch activation programmes, training and adult training, and you need to finance it. We would add 60 billion to labour market training and wage subsidies instead of public work, we would give 10 billion to a national adult education programme. And let me tell you one more thing, I would ban child labor, because it's really the top of everything, taking 16-year-olds out of school because the family can't make a living and taking them to community service. I've tabled a bill, you've voted against it, which would have forbidden children from community service. If you were to think a little longer, and you weren't just worried about 2018 right now, you'd understand that this country looks like we're treating these children in 20 to 30 years. What will happen to these 16, 17, 18 - year - old children or young people if they start their lives in community service? There's a good chance they'll be prisoners of the social services system for the rest of their lives. I think you should have voted in favour of this bill and not take the children to community service. I have to add that according to the latest data from BM, half the public workers, 100,000 skilled workers, qualified or high school graduates, so I'm talking about half the public workers, and among the registered unemployed, this figure is over 200,000. So there are 100 thousand plus 200 thousand, i.e. 300 thousand Hungarians in this country, a significant part of whom could be put back into the labour market with adequate support, training, retraining, vocational training or job search support. I would add that this would also require a job creation programme, which you do not have for 6 years now, but I think that this direction is ahead. I think it is important to say this in this Parliament, because I understand that you live in such a social romance, and I don't know if you want to slowly develop a heavy industry here, but I think it is the 21st century. We need to be aware of the direction the world is going in. [[20.00]] And Hungary must be able to sit on the trends that are now reaching us. Innovation, research, smart factory, startups, these things are important, they strengthen the country, the national economy. And there are the people who are untrained, and we have to help them find work on the ground. In our electoral programme, we have taken up 450 000 jobs so that so much could be created with green economy development. This involves local economic development, renewable energy and basically the use of modern insulation techniques. I think that the world in Hungary must come to see the future in this, not in building a nuclear power plant or in a public work programme. I must add that it is also a basis for the need for quality basic and vocational training, and let me allow myself the luxury of quoting a Fidesz representative word for word. I've brought you a quote from the former Secretary of State for Employment that I'd like to present to you right now. The root of the problem should be found in primary school. As long as functional illiterates arrive at the vocational school, whatever system we're working on will only work on paper. That's why there's a 20-30 percent dropout at the vocational school in the 9th and 10th grade, because what you couldn't master for eight years, the public school teacher won't be able to replace it. Therefore, it is necessary to strengthen the basic training. * Of course, I do not think that the former State Secretary is right in that he places all responsibility on basic training and legitimizes that the number of public education courses in vocational training will be reduced to a third, and the duration of training from four to three years, but this is a crystal-clear confession from the point of view that basic education is in a virtually catastrophic state due to the withdrawal of funds, and that the school forms functional illiterates. That should change. That's why it's a deadly crime for you to remove resources from this system. We would put an extra hundred billion in public education, pay better teachers - because this country has a huge debt to educators - and there would be more emphasis on competence training so that no one left the school as a functional illiterate. We'd like to strengthen vocational training. We could add 25 billion forints, increase - unlike you - the number of public knowledge lessons, mathematics, literature, information technology, language education, because in today's world - and the future is going in this direction more and more - it is the successful worker; he who learns the ability to adapt to the circumstances. Practically, students need to be prepared for lifelong learning, flexibility, constant renewal, all things that I think should be obvious to all thinking people in this House. Not such disposable workers should be trained, who then work at a company next to the production line, and if they no longer have to, they can go to the social care system or the government will give it up completely. People need to be helped to develop these abilities. I think it is a huge problem for you that you do not deal with these things at all, but what I would hope if the Prime Minister were to look at the various eastern roads and see how cheap we are compared to how well-trained Hungarians are. I will never forgive Viktor Orbán for this because he humiliated us, and I think that this is the view from the mouth of a Prime Minister who says that he is, with respect to Hungarians! It can't be said. How do we get respect when our own prime minister talks about us like that, for someone who's qualified, how cheap are we? Amazing! I must also add that targeted economic development, as such, should be one of the most important factors in your policy. I think - and it was really interesting to hear this speech - that you said six years ago that public work would be a temporary state, that they would develop a social economy and that these people could return to an open labour market. I've been listening to this for six years, and there's no change. You didn't build the social economy. There's no local economic development. When did you guys give this up? And why are you coming up with that again? I mean, I mean, it's amazing. We remember what they promised, and I remember it. On the other hand, with community economic development, we could make 70 billion HUF available to Hungarian citizens with local food and energy self-sufficiency, to meet local social needs, and these could be programmes that could gradually become independent, and these case-laws could otherwise build across the country and strengthen local communities, bringing local people together. Let me just give you a few examples: this could apply in fruit and vegetables production, organic gardening, organic farming. It's not normal to bring in a bunch of organic products from Germany. We could produce them in Hungary as much as we could. Why do we have to eat organic apples from Austria? Why don't you let the Hungarian farmers grow these? I think that doing local energy self-sufficiency, simpler renovation and modernisation work should all be part of this local economic development, so that I do not talk about local tourism, which I think is a huge break-out point in the life of the countryside. I think that Hungary is the most beautiful country in the world, and a lot of Hungarian people should be given the opportunity to get to know this country, and a lot of people could gain relaxation in the Hungarian countryside. Why don't we help these people make this happen? There's our green investment fund, we'd put 70 billion forints on it. We're talking about this at an interesting moment. The government took the hundreds of billions of EU money from the population, which was originally asked to be able to isolate our own homes, so that Hungarian citizens could do so. You are now transferring this to public institutions. It was also amazing how they tried to lie about it and blame it on the EU, and it turned out that the government itself created an apparatus that could not carry out this transaction. So you are unable to deliver EU funds to the Hungarian families, where you asked for them. We would be able to do this, and our green investment fund would serve this purpose. Hungarian citizens could expect LMP to provide them with the money they need on a normative basis to make their home more modern from an energy point of view and not to heat the Hungarian streets with Russian gas, but to use less energy to keep our homes warm. Not to mention that if we start such a program and, say, insulate our houses, we can create crisis-resistant jobs, and in the very vulnerable workforce that is not overqualified, in the countryside, they have low mobility, they would not like to move anywhere else, but they would be happy to work on their own homes. I think these people deserve help. And, of course, we would do what you wouldn't do, obviously: we would create a housing and renovation fund in this budget for HUF 20 billion. This 2017 budget really puts the support of the rich to the top; 211 billion would be spent by the government, for example, on the CSOK programme to help people with high income housing, while those who miss out would need housing support and cheap and affordable rentals. Therefore, we would extend the CSOK to house renovations, renovate apartments and create a separate basis for the construction of energy-efficient apartments. That's what it takes to make progress. You don't have to make sure rich people have one more apartment. They thank you, they're fine with what they have. But there are - and most of the country is in this situation - young families, you know. Man, woman meets, they want to start a family, but there's nowhere to go. They don't pay very much. I don't even know if they can keep their jobs. Where do they have a baby? Where are you going to start a family? How much money do they get if their parents can't make them leave with an apartment in life? That's how Hungarian people think. We like to have our own apartment, we think that if we have jobs and we have an apartment, then we're on our way to life. You say it's a family-friendly government. Why don't you give these money to the families? Here's the support of the multinationals. In 2010, you vowed to break up with the socialist tradition and support small and medium-sized enterprises. They said they'd give you a maximum of five million forints in one job, and in five years, you'll be able to get it back, that's what's in your program. Instead, we see that small and medium-sized enterprises receive such two to three million forints of support at work, and the multinationals typically receive ten times this, in many cases thirty million per job. And I'm just talking about direct support, so this is job creation, training support, and I didn't count on those indirect subsidies as subsidies in the form of tax relief. It's very interesting that I'm talking to you today about this problem. It took me a year and a half to sue the Hungarian government, the Ministry of National Economy, for how much you give to multinational companies in the form of various tax incentives, but you succeeded. Today, there is no appeal, the referee has stated that this is about public money, and it must be said that the multinationals have received so much indirect assistance from the state, I must add, with the taxpayers' money. [[20.10]] This is very interesting because I am curious whether you have kept an election promise, that this 5 million forints will be repaid within 5 years of work. What I know from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Trade is that almost HUF 24 billion - in total 16 cases - has been distributed to companies, but that is only a small part of the story. What is very important is what this investment tax reduction looked like in your policy and all the other subsidies. How strange that you have refused to say this for years, so basically from an opposition party, you have tried to take away the opportunity to control your work. I have the good news that we won, and you will publish these data, and we will see if you have really followed what you said about supporting Hungarian small and medium-sized enterprises or continuing the tradition of your socialist predecessors. Let's look at next year's budget for what these numbers look like. It is now tripled to HUF 30 billion in investment incentives. They will provide support and 15 billion large corporate subsidies. I think you could give these money to small and medium-sized enterprises. I think that you know that much of this support for the big ones would be implemented anyway, and I would like to see this reindustrialisation concept forgotten about 2016 - now we are talking about 2017 - in this way. This reminds me most of a strange social romance, and the problem with it is that he's locking us in a low-wage role. I would be very pleased if the Orbán government did not take the example of the socialist major industry, but preferred innovative and world-wide small businesses. I think that we should not make a strategic alliance with these big companies, but with the bakers and other local entrepreneurs, the small and medium-sized entrepreneurs who will stay with us even if the country goes bad, they will not pick up their tent trees and take out their profits and everything they have. Of course, and I must stress that higher wages are essential for things to go better in Hungary. Fallen leaders such as György Matolcsy and the management of the central bank and executives such as MÁV, Szerencségy Zrt., MNB, Magyar Posta leaders can, of course, enjoy their 150 percent wage increase. Technically, these people will make 5 million forints a month. With nearly two years of hard work, a Hungarian nurse manages to bring this kind of money home, and a social worker has to work for more than three years. How can a state firm have a 45-fold difference between the employee and the manager? You don't. This would not happen in a healthy, normal economy. If the country's better off and the reforms are working, then everyone better go better. Not only for someone who is in the lead position, but also for those who work, they work under their own hands and do their job. I think it is intolerable that the minimum wage does not even reach the minimum level of living in this country, the public burdens are so high. Technically, today, the state is taking half of a worker's total wage cost. That's a terrible ratio. It's practically like paying 1 forint in the state register for each forint. That's what it means. On the other hand, we would, of course, reduce the burden on work, and our proposal for a multi-key tax would be a great relief for those who earn below average; and we are talking, unfortunately, about 75 percent of workers, because three quarters of the workers in Hungary earn below average. Of course, we would also give 200 billion to pay for the public sector, I say that, of course, because more governments have to work here. Nine years ago, if we are talking about next year's budget, this pay table will be frozen nine years ago, there will be allowances and sectoral wage increases, which are like fire fighting. The basic wages of social workers will not rise now, there will be no career, I don't know what will happen to daycare workers, from HUF 3-4 billion they would be able to meet the wage demands of daycare workers, social workers could be put in a position of HUF 30 billion not to be shown on the street, because we protested with them, and they have absolutely legitimate demands. János Lázár promised, compared to this, that about one in three public service workers would receive a wage increase, so we believe that this HUF 200 billion would be in the right place in this sector. [[Dr. István Józsa, applause: That's right!]] Thank you. There's plenty of money in the budget. We found 600 billion forints in the base tone, and let us see where money can be moved to better places. There's this Paks II. investment, HUF 100 billion. And tell me, what are you going to do with this 100 billion forints with practically a thousand places in Brussels to investigate this project? Everyone knows what it's about, even if you're pro-nuclear, you tell me, oh, Paks II. It's not about the atom, it's about the Fidesz corruption business. So what are you going to do with this 100 billion forint? Give it to the working people, don't take this. There's this 32 billion-dollar coup d'état of Városliget, here's 45 billion forints, this is 18 billion for the National Hausmann Plan, plus 27 billion forints reconstruction related to the move of the former Ministry of Finance to Castle. Are you watching? So 27 billion for this reconstruction. I said that out of 30 billion forints, social workers would be able to solve their wage increases with integrity. It's completely irresponsible what you're doing! There's this program of modern cities, almost 153 billion forints, it's an election distribution. Rather, local communities should be placed in a position to decide what they want to do with their territory, their own environment. The Prime Minister shouldn't be telling us what's going to happen and what's not. There is the propaganda industry with a budget of 22 billion, and virtually three quarters of it is spent on government communication, and stadium construction is worth almost 47 billion forints. You know, in the life of a government, I think it's an important decision what you do with these money. You pour it into concrete, we would tell you to give it to the working people, to strengthen Hungary. That's the big difference. This is a huge choice of value, and what I see in this budget confirms the fact that it now seems clear to me that Fidesz has ceased to be a community of values, and you are, in fact, an interest community, a huge risk of corruption, a scandal, a scandal every day in this country, and you do not keep your own promises of choice. If you've observed this speech, I've asked for your election promises in a lot of places. They didn't do it. Secondly, in 2014, all they said was that we would continue, so I can't count them on you, so I'm forced to work from 2010, but then there were a few things you said to the voters. And there is this selective family policy, which is a very big problem, because I think that if you really acted like a family-friendly government, it would be very good, because we Hungarian people love our family, we love to be together, we take care of our children. We want to have a baby! There are a lot of kids in this country who can't be born. Compared to this, we are still fighting for the second child, and you are basically supporting families from three to three children up, but the fertility rate is a completely objective issue, and it is about saying that the second child should be helped to take on families. Why are you doing this 3+ solution? The increase in the family tax relief of two children leaves 15 billion for families, while the restrictions since 2010 - the abolition of the tax credit, the increase in contributions, the VAT raised to 27 percent, the transaction tax and all the special taxes passed on - have taken many out of the pockets of the families. You can't give me one hand if you take it with your other hand. No kidding, it's a negative balance for families. Not to mention that it is a big problem that two children are receiving disproportionately less support. On the one hand, I think it is infinitely unfair that families are practically being punished by the number of children. It's not okay. And it's not okay that a child's fate is so affected by what kind of family he's born into. I think we're all equals, and we need equal opportunities. I do not think that such selective family policy would be good for the country. Today, it is very difficult for many in Hungary to raise two or three children. It should be understood that having children is a long-term decision in the lives of families. Women will have children and families will have children if they see that they can raise this child or these children as planned. It would be fundamental, and it's out of the budget, but the Labour Code doesn't help families. You are the ones who practically deprived parents, mothers, of having children under three years of age, of being inexorable. So we're on the street. This was done by the Fidesz government, not a family-friendly measure, I think. Be nice - this is the lobby right now - take it back! So give this respect to the Hungarian people! After all, I don't think you should be surprised at the lack of a population turnaround. In 2011 and 2013, the least children have ever been born. The number of children born in one year went below 90,000. [[20.20]] We've managed to climb up a little from here, but we're not talking about a trend turn, and that's the problem, because it's not gonna happen. They would be able to have children if you didn't always support families earning above average wages, and they didn't say that the three-year-olds started having a lot of support. We're fighting for the second child! And there's the single parents. I would very much ask you not to do this in Hungary with every ten families saying that the reason why LMP's proposal is not voted is that parents who have children alone receive different subsidies, because they will abuse it and divorce on paper to get into the nursery first. Do not think that Hungarian voters are so tricky! I think that support for families in difficult situations should be implemented in many places. We would give a higher family allowance, raise it to 18 thousand forints, increase the amount of lawn and lawn by 25 percent. We also consider parents who are at home with a damaged, disabled child. Now there is a symbolic difference of 1500 HUF, which the government gives them in the budget, and we would raise the care fee by HUF 8850. It was you who led out the equity care fee, which is that if you care for an old, old, sick parent, you get financial help for it. How many women I know who both support their children and their elderly, sick parents! These people have been stripped of their equity fees. Please give it back. These people help the state, take over state work by taking care of parents in their homes. If you're the family government, you're gonna have to return the care fee you call reasonable. And let me tell you, there is a great need for three more things. Due to the shortness of time, I will mention these only in headlines. I will start with what is a great heartbreak for many of us here in opposition, with the question of ratification of the Istanbul Convention. We counted 8 billion forints without our wallets and ministries, so we could start with that. There is a great need for thinking, and professionals need training and help to fight effectively against violence against women and domestic violence. There is a need for places where abused women can escape with their children. Give this money to people who go through hell every day. And be kind, do not comment on what the Fidesz faction leader said yesterday. I don't think people like that have any place in public life. Be nice and put this back in order. This is unacceptable! Lajos Kósa, leader of the Fidesz faction, cannot talk about these matters that way. And there is the equal pay programme and the women's entrepreneurial programme, which is also an old request and demand from LMP. The gender pay gap should decrease in Hungary. This is a subject that the XXI. In the first century, we have to give priority to it in a country. And there is the Women's Entrepreneurship Programme in which we can specifically help women create jobs for themselves. Let's not give up on the huge achievement women give the country. Thank you.
u2016-05-11-118	Thank you very much. We'd have a two-minute window if the government hadn't made contact, but Mr. Secretary of State Peter Benő Banai came forward, so it's up to you. Here you go.
u2016-05-11-119	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, The establishment of the budget is a key element in the economic policy direction. This general sentence had to be said because I think that, first of all, the implementation of a good economic policy requires proper identification of problems and good measures to solve problems. [[Dr. István Józsa: These two are missing!]] If I look back at the past years and look at the facts, I think that the government has identified the problems in terms of job creation, as mentioned by the Congresswoman, and has found the tools with which employment has increased significantly. Let me say that the allegations made by the LMP are, in my view, not factually true. Let me quote some numbers from the European Commission's statistics again. With regard to the quote, I must start by mentioning the words of the congresswoman that we need to be aware of the direction in which the world is going. I am looking at a series of EU statistics available by anyone - not on their own, but on the basis of a summary by the European Commission - in which I see that average employment in the European Union increased between 2002 and 2006 has decreased with us when it was an economic activity. Between 2007 and 2011, it stagnated in the European Union, once again falling significantly, by 0.9 percent. What were the general trends in 2012? In the European Union, the economy has fallen, and the number of people employed has changed by minus 0.6 percent, so it has decreased and it has increased by 0.1 percent in Hungary. In 2013, the number of employees in the European Union still decreased by 0.4 percent and in Hungary by 0.9 percent. In 2014, there was 1 percent employment growth in the EU and 4.8 percent in Hungary. In 2015, the EU average change in the last Fact Year is 1.1 percent and in Hungary 2.8 percent. So when we talk about what international trends are like, what is the world economy environment in which the Hungarian economy must or can prevail, I see that there were just opposite directions in terms of employment. Thank God, after 2010, there were just opposite directions. From this point of view, whether the government had a job creation programme or not, forgive me, Congresswoman, I simply cannot interpret your sentence that there is no job creation programme. What do these numbers prove if it is not that the government has identified the problem well and has chosen the tools well? Let's look at the elements of the program. Workplace protection action plan, tax reduction, direct employment support, training system reform, instead of aid implementation, or SMEs, where a large proportion of the employees are employed. If we look at changes in the tax system for SMEs, Member, it was one of the first measures of the government after 2010 to reduce the corporate income tax to 10 per cent. Then, together with the introduction of the Action Plan for the Protection of Jobs, from 2013 onwards, the specific tax of small companies or small taxpayers was again intended to improve the tax environment of SMEs in the first place responsible for employment. It has also transformed EU funds to finance SMEs in the first place. I think these steps show that the government's employment policy measures have been successful, and the result is that the number of employees is permanently over 4.2 million. I think that the 2017 budget is in the spirit of this philosophy, and we can trust that the number of people employed will increase in 2017. There was another very important claim from the LMP. As lead speaker, Ms Erzsébet Schmuck said that the government has led the economy to a dead end, economic policy has failed, there is no internal demand, wages have not increased. Let me tell you again the facts about the change of lawsuits, whether there is a pay-per-view or not. Average net earnings change in 2015 is 4.2 percent, well above economic expansion. The expected net income change in 2016 is 5.6 per cent, well above economic growth. The projected net income change in 2017 is 5.1 percent, well above economic growth. What's this if it's not a pay-as-you-go? If someone does not believe government figures, I respectfully ask them to look at the European Commission's forecasts. These figures show that the number of people employed will also increase over the next period, and real wages will also increase in the next period. [[Noise in the ranks of the MSZP.]] It has also been said from the Member's point of view that there is no money to raise wages. Allow me to repeat the figures from the 2017 budget bill before you. Based on the different careers that have already been adopted, the budget will increase more than HUF 220 billion in wages next year, and in addition to the new wage measures, where the amount of specific wage increases has not yet been fixed - see healthcare - HUF 180 billion. The increase in wage expenditure is over HUF 400 billion. Members, please check whether these figures are included in the budget or not, and then check whether they contain the amount of next year's budget bill for wage increases or not. [[20.30]] We have often said that in the field of education and health, there has been no withdrawal, there has been no one such sequence of numbers. We still have some work to do. We've told a lot of people. We know very well that we have responsibilities, but the statement is that the expansion of the economy in 2017 will allow substantial additional resources to be available in the fields of education and health, in addition to reducing public debt and a disciplined budget management. Repeat, additional resources are available. With regard to our countrymen who have been broken down abroad, our countrymen working abroad, I think that these numbers in recent years, which have focused on the expansion of the economy, the change of real earnings, and confirm that I think that a catch-up has started after 2010, may also result in a more worthwhile stay in Hungary. Undoubtedly, in a globalized world, it is becoming easier and easier to go abroad. And there is no doubt that, although our economic development deficit has decreased significantly, it is still very large compared to the core countries of the European Union. However, I think that, based on the figures and the forecasts for 2017, we can trust that this catch-up will continue in 2017, and that more and more people will decide to return home, and more and more people will decide not to go abroad. Because those extra benefits, the tax incentives that are linked to the founding of a family and tax write-downs, the creation of a home and the aid that can be used, will make citizens stay home. That is why we say that next year's budget is a budget for tax cuts and home creation. I am confident that these positives will also be discovered in the bill by fellow Members of the opposition. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-05-11-120	Thank you very much. Two-minute round: Congressman István Józsa, MSZP!
u2016-05-11-121	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, There's something I want you to acknowledge. You are a civil servant here and you are speaking with elected representatives of the Hungarian Parliament. You're not a congressman. Have more respect for those who are here. You need to cut back on that lecture, because it simply doesn't suit the dignity of the Members and your professional dignity. How come you're here to read this and this? We'll read the submissions, don't worry. And don't make any assumptions that the profession has clearly refuted. He doesn't look in the mirror, he doesn't look the voters in the eye, he just looks at his numbers. Why don't you just back off from what you've been doing here all day? I believe you're very well prepared for the budget, because that's what you did in our time. But then, somehow, I didn't hear from you on the Economic Committee such loud statements. [[Interviews from the Fidesz ranks.]] So it's the whereabouts that define your manners a little bit. He correctly stated that only the correct identification of the problem would be possible to arrive at the right conclusion. Your problem assessment, by comparing the Hungarian situation with the Greek situation for 2010, has led to a miscalculation of the forint's exchange rate. It is a matter of treason that the value of the national currency has been reduced by 20 percent. This is what you should account for when you talk about the profits of the National Bank, because it is not a profit, it is the money of the foreign exchange lenders that you received more expensively from the National Bank for the settlement. And one more minute, ten seconds. You know, the one who treats public money as his own is the Btk. He thinks he's embezzling. György Matolcsy did this: he treated public money as his own. Thank you, Mr. President.
u2016-05-11-122	On behalf of the government, Mr. András Aradszki, State Secretary.
u2016-05-11-123	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Congressman! I'm very fond of your sanguine comment, especially because I think you're missing the 6 billion that Pakson's summing up. [[Interviews in the ranks of the MSZP.]] The fact is that my very prepared fellow State Secretary, my colleague, would like to see the honourable Member speak not to the world, but to debate the facts here in this House. And you won't do that. Instead, he attacks a man who does his job. He was polite enough to suggest that you look at something, and you wouldn't do it. [[Interviews from the ranks of the MSZP.]] And they refuse to count on reality, but they hit the secretary of state who works here. That's not reasonable. With all due respect, Congressman, you really should read the draft budget and really respond accordingly and make your comments. And don't attack Secretary of State personally, please. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-05-11-124	Mr. Secretary of State Peter Benő Banai!
u2016-05-11-125	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. I thank the Secretary of State Aradski very much for his contribution, and I promise to speak only on professional matters, but I would like to respond to the observation so much that I have tried to give due respect, and I think that in my comments I have said facts. If I'm making a statement that doesn't match the truth, I respectfully ask you to indicate specifically where I was wrong, which of my statements is not true. The other thing is personal. Yeah, I swore in 1998 that I would serve public affairs as best I could. With all due respect, I've always worked according to this in the last few years. If you look at it, Mr. Congressman, I have received recognition from various party-like ministers for this work. And I must also respectfully say that I am pleased that I have been able to represent a budget since 2010 as a state leader and have been able to provide information on the reporting of a budget that was implemented as originally planned. Which, I think, as an integral part of economic policy, has resulted in the fact that now, at the 2017 budget, we can talk about where tax cuts are, where additional resources are available. I do not argue that we have many problems ahead of us. I've always said that more than once. But yet, I repeat, I intend to continue a professional debate, and when I hear statements that are simply not factually true, I feel it is my duty to tell you what the proposal submitted or the facts of the past contain. I am doing this to help the work of the Parliament, to try to make a correct diagnosis of the situation of the Hungarian economy and the Hungarian budget. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-05-11-126	Dear Parliament, The two-minute lap continues. Congressman László Pósán, Fidesz, please.
u2016-05-11-127	Thank you very much, Mr. President. In short, I would just like to say that I was able to conclude from both Mr Józsa and before him that the intrusive proximity of the facts interferes with the large-scale conception. It was clear from Congressman Józsa's comments. What Congresswoman Bernadett Szél said, I would just like to highlight one thing. He said that the program "Modern Cities" was an election something, and it would be better for the local community to formulate its needs. I'd like to tell you that you know very badly. In the context of economic development and job creation ideas formulated by local communities, the government has concluded contracts with these settlements, not about someone telling us what to do. These are local needs, especially good programmes, related to economic development. So I suggest you look at some of these specific contracts and see how wrong you were. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-05-11-128	Z. Carpathian Congressman Daniel, Jobbik, in two minutes.
u2016-05-11-129	Mr President, Dear House, Speaking of facts, I would also like to contribute briefly to the debate. According to the Hungarian National Bank, a surplus of roughly 800 billion has been created on a three-year basis. It has several components, several legs. Basically, we can talk about the result of the weak forint. But we must highlight the surplus of more than HUF 136 billion, which is clearly due to the so-called conversion behind foreign exchange lenders. So we should agree whether or not this is really about money for foreign exchange lenders. [[20.40]] I'm telling you, I am. I claim that these amounts must not lose their public finances. We have also made our proposal that, when grouped into a compensation fund, you would have a dog duty to alleviate the credit-damaged situation of this amount, instead of the forinting at the market rate and other winking with banks, as I can come by imposing a bank tax, but we know that, together with the amount of the transaction fee, and sometimes it has been passed on to consumers, citizens. The banks admitted this at the transaction fee, and there was a detailed confession at the bank tax. Now they're even reducing the scale. Then they made a deal with the Banking Association that they would no longer be charged to save the victims. So I'm saying that this is the money of the currency-loan-damaged. But it is outrageous in itself that the excess MNB will not be rechanneled. You have not even moved to a Polish model for some reason, where you may only be able to channel the surplus back under certain conditions, such as investing in intelligent infrastructure and productive investments later on, not just applauding it in the budget. However, it must be stated that this money is missing from families with foreign currency credit, one of the reasons for the existence of a dehydrated economy, and that this situation calls for immediate intervention from the situation of more than 150 thousand unfit families. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2016-05-11-130	We now return to the list of speakers announced in advance. Congressman Gábor Törő, Fidesz, please.
u2016-05-11-131	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, In the 2017 budget, the government pays particular attention to further improving the health of the population, increasing the number of regular athletes, reducing territorial differences, which can contribute significantly to reducing health expenditure in the long term as a macroeconomic impact. A key objective is to strengthen the strategic role of sport in order to strengthen the state of health and cultural cohesion of the nation, as well as to maintain the traditional good Hungarian Olympic appearances and to increase effectiveness, the primary tool of which can be the foundation for child and youth health education. In addition to government measures to improve the effectiveness of competition, the government considers the promotion of sport as a priority sector. It is a strategic task to carry out sports professional tasks related to sports development concepts, including the implementation of the medium-term sports development visions of the priority sports sectors. These table tennis, athletics, wrestling, rowing, judo, kayak canoe, bike, skating, boxing, pentathlon, volleyball, sports shooting, tennis, gymnastics, swimming, fencing. It is important to employ the top coaches, to support the additional professional tasks of sports organisations and the strategic and operational tasks of the major sports associations, to think of the Ferencváros Gymnastics Club, Vasas Sport Club, the Újpest Gymnastics Association, the Budapest Vasutas Sport Club, the Budapest Honvéd Sports Association, the Hungarian Test Practitioners' Circle. It is also intended to support the additional professional tasks and development tasks of sports not covered by the above sports, but important for sports. The primary objective remains to support high-level domestic events. In addition to competition sport, the professional task is to support recreational sports programmes, in particular sport activities aimed at improving health, such as sport activities in nature, hiking, student and higher education sports, and sports for disabled persons and disadvantaged social groups. Dear House, Based on the draft law on Hungary's central budget for 2017, the budget for the financial recognition of sports results, sports activities, the Olympics allowance, the Aladár Gerevich Sports Scholarship, the Silvergely Arts Competition and the social support of elderly athletes is increased by HUF 91.5 million compared to the 2016 base. The additional resource was determined on the basis of the average gross salary at the national level calculated by the Central Statistical Office for the Olympic medalists, so that the payments for 2017 could be made smoothly within the specified deadline with the availability of the necessary resources, thereby supporting the recognition of those concerned by the sports profession. With an additional HUF 800 million in funding to carry out sports professional tasks related to the implementation of the sports development concepts, it will be possible to use the 2016 Rio XXXI. In the event of successful participation in any of the sports areas highlighted by the Hungarian Olympic Committee in the summer Olympic Games, we can provide additional support to the sport concerned to perform the professional tasks and provide support for the employment of the top coaches. At the same time, it will be possible to further increase the number of sports currently supported by the catch-up framework and the amount of support in the light of the results. In line with the government's decision, a HUF 100 million resource has been allocated in the budget to carry out the operational tasks of the Sport Nutrition Science Institute, which is capable of testing food supplements used by athletes for the purposes of the illicit improvement of performance. In order to ensure the successful operation of the institution, it may finance the salaries of professionals experienced in the field of doping analysis and food supplements, the operation, maintenance and continuous development of the necessary IT background, the operation of the laboratory and the cost of samples tested by the institution. The main task of the institution is to examine the composition of food supplements in circulation, mainly intended for athletes, especially in relation to the occurrence of the substances included in the WADA-tiltólista. This will significantly reduce the chance for athletes to doping in the absence of knowledge of the composition of food supplements. In the 2017 budget of the sport sector, it is possible to provide the same level of support as the 2016 budget for professional programmes, which will continue to be carried out smoothly in previous years. This appropriation is intended to contribute to the academic development of high-level training centres in order to establish and maintain a career in sports, to select Hungarian sports talents and to build a continuous monitoring system. In this context, it will provide enhanced professional training and the necessary background in sports health and sports sciences, institutionalised relationships. It facilitates interoperability in the system of public education in order to ensure flexible development of the load and timing associated with increased sport activity. Within the framework of the program of the Hungarian Football Association, 15 replacement centres are supported, and 3300 children from U7 in U21 age groups are involved in the academic training. The amount of assigned revenue in accordance with Article 21 (3) of the Financial Regulation is estimated at EUR 150000. The Bozsik programme affects nearly 70,000 children 5-14 years of age. The amount of assigned revenue in accordance with Article 21 (3) of the Financial Regulation is estimated at EUR 150000. [[20.50]] Support for sports, sports and sports science programmes is also used to improve the sport of people with disabilities. This appropriation is intended to cover the financing of sport rehabilitation programmes, regular, therapeutic sport activities, sports education and programmes for children with disabilities outside of school hours, recreational sports for persons with disabilities, national, county and local events in student sports and the participation of disabled athletes in international world events. A good example is the promotion of preparation and participation in the Summer Deaf Limpian Games. This appropriation is intended to cover outstanding recreational sports events, communication activities promoting this, related research, the operation of sports associations, sports organisations in this area, their professional activities and other programmes related to the dissemination of healthy lifestyles, recreational sport, the development of school and higher education sports, the development of sport for women and families and the promotion of sport for the elderly. This appropriation is also intended to cover the financing of work-related sports programmes, health promotion activities and recreational sports for disabled athletes and socially disadvantaged groups. I think that there is much less debate in sport than there are in other budgetary factors, so I call on the honourable Parliament to support this budget. Thank you for your attention. [[It's a rare round of applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-05-11-132	Thank you very much. Congresswoman Anita Heringes is next, MSZP. Here you go.
u2016-05-11-133	Thank you very much for the floor. As I watched this 2017 budget, I somehow thought of a song. I'm sure you all know the song of Zsuzsa Koncz, that as it happens, I can't guess the future. Well, that's about how the Fidesz Members and we feel, because we have a budget that is not yet established. When Minister of State Banai Benő tells us to read the budget, to give facts and to support it, and why we did not listen to the SAO and the Fiscal Council, the Budget Council expressed in its written opinion that next year's budget cannot be considered sound, because at the moment of referral, only preliminary data on the implementation of the 2015 budget can be seen, so there is nothing to base it on at this moment. They also stated in their opinion that the Council itself did not make clear from the proposal what type and extent of risks the government had planned the reserves. No family can plan next year's budget without knowing how much of the previous year he has left or how much extra money he has. I think you know that with common sense, you know that. Today, we have a budget with such magical numbers, so many magical numbers that they were able to bring even zero to the end: they planned how much we were going to spend, the government paired the revenues to exactly the same amount of expenses for a penny, and thus complete the cover - well, that's really the last thing we saw in the fairy tale. It has to be said: this is just a budget of fraud, they are preparing for election distribution, as it will be 2017. People are a little bit, I think, waiting for this election division, because in recent times they have only felt that there is something double reality in Hungary: there is a reality that you see here, on the other side of the horseshoe and in the velvet chairs, and there is a reality that they feel, and these two realities somehow do not meet. Because they do not feel that Hungary is performing better at the moment, they do not feel that they have more money or should pay less for anything. After all, when you go into the store, and by the way, if you go shopping often, you know and see that you are pushing the basket in front of you, and you can buy a lot less products for the same amount, because the prices have gone up so much. And, of course, it is easy to say that we will reduce the price of raw milk - only honestly, gentlemen, raw milk is bought by very, very few people in Hungary today, and, by the way, it is rare to find it even in rural markets. Yes, there are still a few markets in downtown where you can find a liter of it for 350 HUF, only when you go into a bigger store and buy that milk for 149 HUF, then yes, he will choose it, because he can buy at least two of them right away. The problem is, indeed, that you say that this is a budget for tax cuts, and then again, VAT will be reduced to products that we have been stressing for a very long time that the price of basic food must be reduced. But by the way, it's going to look like a pig, that when you go to the market, you don't see that amount of price cuts there, so it's not going to get to people the way it's supposed to get to people again. People are actually living worse today than they were four years ago, but it's not a lie now than when you put it on your campaign posters. It is very interesting to see that they are still pointing backwards after six years, even though after six years they should be pointing back at themselves, because in six years you have had plenty of opportunities, you could have done a lot of things for people, instead of at the moment the Hungarian people can only see that they did it for themselves and only for themselves. Just thinking about those little things, there's not a day that goes by that there's not a scandal that we can see, by the way, only what it's better for their own circles and what kind of paintings or other assets they can take home from the state community. People are very desperate, and they see that somehow they will not be better, and they are soon to accept it. After all, you see on the news that Hungary is performing better, everything is fine, and now you will be able to see how much better the country is than it has been in recent years, and people think that they are probably doing something wrong. But the bad idea that they're the majority is that they're probably not doing something wrong, they're just suffering from this whole situation. I therefore think that much more humility is needed on the part of the pro-government representatives, because this budget is not just numbers, but there are a lot of people behind it, we are here with a huge responsibility within the walls of Parliament, because we are deciding on people's lives. And when I'm really young, I think about how these people pay their checks every month, pay their children's meals and buy their things, and they don't have any money left to live, just pay their dues every month. By the way, this is the biggest cancer of the public work programme, because it has been proven by you, in a number of cases, such as firefighters, that people in normal employment have been fired and then rehired as public workers for much less wages, for a much lower standard of living. I think that this is really not a good solution by increasing employment by saying that everyone is doing community service. It's just that they don't give them life, it's just survival, and I think that the Hungarian population deserves much more than that, and Hungarian young people deserve much more than that. And, of course, you can point out employment numbers, only when student workers are counted among employees when they come in handy, and now, when they're no longer needed, we're taking them out of the labour code, and otherwise we're removing all rights, all the rights and opportunities they've had. By the way, just a day ago, we voted that you will withdraw 1.6 billion forints a year from student workers' pockets, 1.6 billion from the pockets of young people who work next to the school, and work because their parents could not support or educate them at the moment, or help them to pay the average check or even make a living every day. I think that you should notice that you are creating a life for the Hungarian population today that the Hungarian population deserves much more than that. [[21.00]] At the same time, I would like to say a little bit about our own things as a Paks girl, that I hope that next year, 2017 will not be the same as in the last two years, that the Paks, who do serious work every year, and otherwise, in the energy supply they create the opportunity to have all the lights lit here today, they will not have to beg to receive sports support, information support and anything else that would otherwise be normal. After all, gentlemen, I have spoken a number of times, and I have said that I find it outrageous that the Paks athletes, who are incredibly successful, have become assistant state secretary of one of the Paks athletes, because the communications director of the Paks Nuclear Power Plant is a very famous Paks athlete, and these people in the year of the Olympic preparation have been deprived of their support and only give them minimums to survive. Today they feel like a large part of the Hungarian population. I think it's outrageous, and I'm going to speak for them and for them as long as you refuse to fix this, because I don't think the Paks are supposed to lie down for anything. So I'm gonna demand every single time that this part be fixed. Please, gentlemen, consider every time these numbers are said and say that Hungary is performing better, that people who sit in front of the TV or just turn on the Internet and are willing to look at this debate, do not feel bad, and do not feel that they have done something wrong at the time, because somehow they do not feel that Hungary is performing better, but they feel what we can see in the numbers: that the highest rate and the lowest rate, the richest and the poorest, are ten times the difference; they feel that they are in the same place as in the first to second year after the regime change. Gentlemen, this is outrageous. These young people who can't make a living today can't have children and can't move on. You did not wish for such a life either for yourself or for your children. I ask you, very nicely, to fight to make it better, to replace pride with humility and arrogance with it. [[János Pócs intervenes.]] that their own representatives represent their own voters by their work. Because today we see one thing: that you do not sit in the ranks, you do not argue most of the time, and do not stand up for your own constituents, only when party discipline commands you here. Thank you very much.
u2016-05-11-134	Mr Béla Dankó, representative of Fidesz, is the next speaker. Here you go.
u2016-05-11-135	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, The development of road and rail transport remains among the government's priorities, as the development of transport infrastructure is important for further strengthening the national economy, reducing the development gap in the country, connecting rural and local communities to the economic and commercial cycle. In the last two years, strategic agreements between the government and the county seat have been concluded across the country in the framework of the Modern Cities Programme, which also facilitate the connection of cities and the countryside to the motorway network. For this purpose, the government allocates significant domestic budgetary resources. According to the bill on Hungary's central budget for 2017, the expenditure appropriation for 2017 for the maintenance and operation of the road network was HUF 73.2 billion, while the expenditure appropriation for the public road network renewal budget was HUF 10 billion, while the budget for the 2017 expenditure allocation for the priority road projects was HUF 280 billion. The main objective of the priority road projects is to provide the central budgetary resources needed to achieve the objectives set out in the national transport infrastructure development strategy for the period 2014-2020, including the re-building of motorways up to the border and the provision of motorway access to county seats. Among these projects, I highlight the construction of the M44 motorway, which will ensure the availability and future of Békés county. Ladies and gentlemen, The construction of the M44 motorway is the cornerstone of the advanced road transport of the county of Békés, which is essential both from an economic and social point of view. The Government of 1010/2015. The implementation of the M44 road between Kecskemét-Nagykőrös-Békéscsaba constitutes a major road investment. The construction of the M44 can help investors to come more intensively to the region, and Békés County can once again become our country's pantry, i.e. agriculture and the food industry will be given a great boost again, and it will also facilitate market access for businesses already operating there. This is particularly important, since in Békés county the investment performance per capita was only 72% of the national average in 2015. Advanced road transport is an essential condition for the economic development of our economy, which is currently not resolved. For people living here, it is necessary to create certain living conditions, which do not encourage them to leave their birthplaces. However, investments that create new jobs can only be launched by the appropriate transport infrastructure. Not only do economic considerations require the construction of the road, the truck's traffic on Highway 44 has increased tremendously by 33 percent after the introduction of the e-toll, which makes road transport dangerous. This development is also particularly important for the safety of transport. The section between Kecskemét and Békéscsaba can be divided into three stages based on preparation: Kecskemét-Tiszakürt, Tiszakürt-Kondoros and Kondoros-Békéscsaba, of which Tiszakürt-Kondoros is the best prepared. Dear Parliament, On 26 April, Prime Minister Viktor Orbán visited Békéscsaba, where he confirmed that the construction of the first section of the M44 road, the Kondoros-Tiszakürt section, could begin this year. The road will be fully financed from a public budget. During the visit, an agreement was reached on a 30 billion HUF development package in the framework of the Modern Cities programme. Investment in Békéscsaba, such as a printing knowledge and training centre, cold store, sports centre, airport and theatre development, will also help the development of the county. These funds are provided by the budget. On the basis of what has been said, it is safe to say that the budget for 2017 will be the winners of the people of Békés County. Please support the Peaceful County people by accepting the budget. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-05-11-136	Thank you very much. The representative of Jobbik, Congressman Csaba Gyure, is next. Here you go.
u2016-05-11-137	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, We have now come to an important chapter in the negotiation of the budget, and in this context I would like to talk most about the underpaid sectors which I feel have not been provided by Parliament or the government most recently. The wages of civil servants and the wage increases of civil servants were recently on the agenda here in the Hungarian Parliament. In this connection, the government and the Ministry of Justice submitted their new proposal, the point of which is that civil servants will in fact be divided into several parts, and some of them will now receive a wage increase and another part will not receive a wage increase. What do we need to see about civil servants' salaries and career models? For a very long time, they have promised that civil servants will change the system that has been there. I mean, what's been going on, what's the system, what's the payment system for civil servants? Obviously, they have to be divided into two parts here, because some people have university and college degrees, which provide them with a more serious classification, but those who work as civil servants with secondary education, let's say, in a government window, will receive virtually a lot more wages than public workers, can achieve about the same standard of living, and, where appropriate, they have worked in the Hungarian administration for 20-30 years, work for people, and will bring home 70-80 thousand net forints. Technically, if their partner makes that much money and they have children, there is no way to make a living in Hungary. [[21.10]] We were very pleased with the bill that it will indeed touch the wages of civil servants, that the government wants to touch it, and that we obviously support it in any way. But I think it is unworthy of civil servants who are not included in this package. How come some of the civil servants get a raise, the other part doesn't? Maybe they work side by side, maybe they're separated by a wall, they've been working together for 20 years, one of them's paying 30-40 percent, the other one's not. I think that it cannot be done with those who work in the municipalities, who do not work in the district offices, who work in the Health Insurance Fund, who work in pension insurance, who carry out these tasks. They are no less than those civil servants who will now receive the 30 percent wage development, if any 40 percent wage development, which they do need, they have not touched in eight years. Obviously, this has caused a very serious real wage reduction for civil servants, and this should be replaced in any way. So I think that no distinction should be made, and here in the Finance Act, we did, in this connection with my fellow Member Mrs Hegedűs Loránt, in which we do, we ask that the whole sector of civil servants be covered by the increase in wages, and not just one third of them be affected by civil servants. Then another problem that I would like to raise is that it was my former colleague, Tamás Gaudi-Nagy, who had the heart and the ponies, the legal assistance service and its budget in relation to Hungarians across the border, and obviously Tamás Gaudi-Nagy still has this issue at his heart. In this connection, I also submitted an amendment in which we would increase the amount of legal aid for Hungarians across the border by HUF 60 million. So I would certainly ask the Honourable Parliament for its support. Then, if I started with civil servants, I would continue with another sector, which is also similar to civil servants, and this is law enforcement, judges, prosecutors. It's worse than them. The judges and prosecutors hadn't had a wage increase in any form for 12 years, or what happened was that their 13th month salary was taken by the Parliament, and instead it was put into the basic wage, so it was chartered. So they didn't actually marry me, they didn't add me, so that's what happened to their salary. During the 2002 change of government, there was a decision on the part of the new government, the Medgyessy government, to raise the salaries of the judges. At that time, in two steps, in two years, there was 50 percent wage development for both prosecutors and judges, and nothing has happened since that decision in 2002. What we need to see is that even if it is now, there has not been any more serious inflation in Hungary in the last year, but previously it has. What did that mean? Overall, this meant that the decrease in real wages of judges and prosecutors was about 50 percent. That's amazing. Technically, their salary has decreased by 50 percent, working in this very important sector of justice. So there is definitely a need for a serious amendment here. When I drew up the budget bill and started looking at it, I looked at the judicial section and the court budget, and I was very pleased because I saw in the annex that, indeed, the personal benefits were raised by 30 percent compared to the last year's budget. So there's a 30% increase. I was very pleased, because last year, I proposed a raise of exactly this size, of the same scale and scale, and I thought that it would be found and installed on understanding ears somewhere. But I can see that it is not, because it is defined in the budget law - if I remember correctly, 63. In Section 5 - the judges' wage base, the salary basis, and it is not affected, there is no change, nor is there a bill to amend the multipliers in the law on the remuneration of judges. Therefore, it can only be concluded that this is not an amount intended to raise wages, as they will remain the same in 2017 as before, both for judges and for prosecutors. We need to see that the court is a very important sector, because classical democracy is based on separation of powers, legislation, enforcement and court, the three branches of power. If we try to take away the independence of the three branches of power, it means that we are taking a huge blow to democracy. I think that when we try to use wages to hold judicial power, so to speak, as a separate branch of power, and we are actually trying to steer it in some direction, we are going to strike a huge blow to the democratic system. It is very interesting to look at the trend that neither during the first Orbán government in 1998-2002 nor since the establishment of the 2010 Orbán government has ever been involved in the payment of judges and the payment of prosecutors. I would like to ask whether it is deliberate to treat this sector as a stepchild, justice, or any influence. We are constantly seeing, hearing how, where appropriate, the judgments made by the court are criticised. I do not think that revenge should therefore be taken without raising the salary of this sector at all. So I also tabled an amendment in this regard, and here the law is 63. In the framework of Article 4 of the Act, the amount of the judicial salary would be raised by 30 per cent and, obviously, in the Annex, the amount which is intended to be added to that amount would also be added. I would ask for the support, since it must also be taken into account that both judges and prosecutors cannot do any other work, there are very strict conditions for their work, and we require very high professional standards from them. If we really want the best, the best lawyers to come to the courts, then they should be appreciated, not let the whole profession, the whole sector, at least the loss of inflation that has been in recent years, be followed. We also know very well that the Council of Europe prepared a statement in 2014, when it examined the salaries of judges and prosecutors, and what we see from this statement by the Council of Europe is that our lawyers working in justice are looking for far away in Hungary, i.e. the least of the countries of the European Union working in the court, the prosecutor's office. We even beat Bulgaria in the back order, so we're the last. In Bulgaria, too, there is a 10% increase in income, and if we look at the surrounding countries, we see that wages are much higher everywhere. Obviously, if I am not talking about Austria, but Bulgaria has 10 percent more salaries, in Romania it is 60 percent higher, in Austria it is three times, in England it is eight times, in Germany it is six times, and in general it is several times more than in Hungary. So I think that this also needs to be changed, to which I have tabled an amendment with a 30% wage improvement. With this, Hungary would move from the last place, but it would be in the second-to-last place, it would only prevent Bulgaria, and Hungary would still be in the last-to-last position, in the dead race with Lithuania on the payment list. I do not think that, when it is possible to increase the salary of the central bank president to 5 million, when we talk about, of course, the need to give people international salaries, and someone has to push their salary down, so this is a dangerous process, I think that we should solve wage developments in Hungary in a broadly balanced manner. That is why I have made this proposal, and I think that is why it is necessary as soon as possible. Tünde Hando, the President of the National Court of Justice, has said this several times in his speech that it is virtually untenable how this sector is valued from the point of view of payment, and indeed the 50 percent real wage reduction that has been made, in this case it would in any case require that we touch it, and 30 percent would be the minimum that we would need in this case. It is also very important to talk about the average income, because in the territorial distribution Szabolcs-Szatmár-Bereg county, my narrower country is by far the last in Hungary. That's where the lowest average wage is. [[21.20]] It would be very important to have improvements that provide a higher income in Szabolcs-Szatmár Bereg county, not a gross average income of HUF 150 thousand, which is just enough to make a living. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2016-05-11-138	We have a two-minute speech coming up, Honourable Parliament. Bangóné Borbély Ildikó, MSZP, please.
u2016-05-11-139	Thank you, Mr. President. Honourable Members, Dear Secretary of State, There has been a lot of talk about the promotion of sport, and we know very well that this government is very concerned about the construction of stadiums, while, citing the data of the KSH, two thirds of Hungary's population are not engaged in any sport activity. 34 percent of the population is a mass sport, some 3 million people, covering the 10-84 age group. It is not negligible either, but the most popular sports include cycling - 830 thousand people cycling in Hungary - and the second is football, the third is running, the fourth is jogging and swimming. If we look at these figures and figures, then it turns out to us that we should not build stadiums for hundreds of billions of forints - and the 2017 budget also contains a lot of money in this case - but rather, let's say, small football courts, runways, bicycle routes, and perhaps they should be built for those schoolhouses and gymnasiums from which 30-40 pieces have been announced every year since 2014, and by some miracle they will not be built, see if we are talking about the pool in Putnok or Gödöllő. But every year, one Secretary of State stands up, announces several pieces again, and in the end, it turns out that they cannot be built. So, we should set priorities, Mr. Secretary, because when you emphasize that the budget is made up of numbers, there are people behind the numbers, people living in Hungary. A budget is not full of numbers. Behind these figures is the Hungarian population itself, and this should be the first thing the government should bear in mind. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2016-05-11-140	Thank you very much. We will return to the speakers that have been announced. Congressman Gábor Sombor, Fidesz, please.
u2016-05-11-141	Excuse me. [[Managing his microphone cord:]] The problem is, if I don't untie it, I'm gonna have to sit. Somehow, he snuck up...
u2016-05-11-142	There's so much time left for the Fidesz fraction, we'll just sit here and wait for him to figure things out. [[Dr. Gábor Zombor pinned his microphone.]] Here you go.
u2016-05-11-143	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, With regard to the 2017 Budget Act, I would like to say in advance a few sentences about what my colleague Bernadett Szél and I have tried to discuss in private here, as he attacked and criticized the programme "Modern Cities" with a somewhat pejorative interpretation. If you will allow me, as I have some experience in local government and parliamentary work, I have to say that perhaps one of the biggest aids of the last decade can be to local governments, large cities with county rights, because they can make improvements that are almost impossible from other sources or from their own resources, but they are also necessary to strengthen and improve the competitiveness of the region. In our narrower environment, Kecskemét, this program represents a HUF 100 billion development. So I would very much ask my fellow Members and Mr Secretary of State to insist on this, and in no way to change it, to increase the size of this. This is not only a self-serving development - as has been said here - but, for example, in relation to Kecskemét, investments such as the civil exploitation of the military airport or not only Kecskemét, but also the development of the power supply of the surrounding areas, which is necessary to strengthen the economic development that has started in recent years and has made the region one of the economic centres of the country. The result is that, for example, after the announcement of the largest employer and the largest investor, Mercedes, the modern city programme, made the decision to invest another HUF 200 billion in the Hungarian economy in Kecskemét, thereby creating new jobs, and we hope that it will strengthen economic growth and bring more money back to health, which would have been the basic theme of my speech. After all, perhaps the most wonderful item in the budget for the budget of 17 is the additional HUF 167 billion that will be added to the financing of health care. This opens up an opportunity that will perhaps mean peace of work and more balanced relations in the sector, which is very much needed, as also the negotiations that started about a year ago with representatives of the sector have shown that all stakeholders want long-term, predictable and, of course, at least, to ensure that healthcare workers develop to the level of the Visegrád countries, as this is a basic condition for ensuring security of supply, quality and keeping highly qualified professionals and doctors at home. So I can only congratulate you and thank you specifically as a private person and as a health worker for this. The information that has been made here on the debate day is very encouraging. I think that a multi-annual wage development programme could be launched, somewhere continuing the programme mentioned by the 2012-2013 Secretary of State, which could end up creating an agreement that, by 2018-2019, will lead to a serious wage development in the sector, and which, perhaps, with the residency scholarship system, additional support for young specialists, which could reach HUF 200,000 per month, will create a system that will help compensate for our competitive disadvantage in some way caused by the brain drain of the European Union or even the United States, as few people know how many doctors and health professionals are missing from the European Union. This is a multi-million-dollar scale, and government programmes are being prepared on how well-trained workers can be seduced by government tools and support, especially from Central and Eastern European countries. So it's definitely a chance and an opportunity that will help. This is likely to help both the quality of patient care and the safety of patient care. [[21.30]] I think that the steps that started in the field of health in 2010 have tried to solve many, many problems, many of them have failed, and tensions remain. This is partly for structural and partly financial reasons. However, just a year ago there was a health debate day, when the Secretary of State was here, and many of the people sitting here, when we tried to present the facts, and we saw and saw the changes in health funding and wage conditions between 2007-2008 and 2011. At the end of 2011, we had not yet reached the real value of these amounts in 2006, and as the country began to emerge from financial shock, and as the economy grew, it seems that the real value of financing and wages is approaching the level from which it once started. And this is the biggest problem in health care, in wages and funding, that many people view this issue only nominally, but the biggest problem is that there was a year when the real value reduction was more than 20 percent in terms of financing. We also know that Hungary's average national incomes have also affected the economic crisis, but it is very impressive to see in a European Union wage statistics how public sector, including health wages, have been hiccupted and there has been a much higher decline rate than in the competition sector, and this has to be addressed by taking such steps and involving additional resources, as this is the reason for the tensions that the rate of decline was much higher than in other sectors. Therefore, it is very important that the country's ability to perform improves, reforms work, with a disciplined budget, 500 billion HUF additional funds are added to the system and 167 billion HUF of this is added to the health care system. That is why I would like to ask that we stick to the draft budget, and I would also ask my fellow Members to support the adoption of the law. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2016-05-11-144	Thank you very much. Mr Sándor Szabó, representative of the MSZP. Here you go.
u2016-05-11-145	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, In relation to the budget, I would like to deal with the local governments and the situation of the local authorities in a little more detail on social, educational and health issues, I think my fellow Members will make these opinions and proposals. As far as municipalities are concerned since 2010, it is clear that there has been a central effort by the government, and it is obvious that the support of the municipalities has also decreased significantly. Before last year, the municipalities received 25 billion less, this decrease stopped this year, and we see that the municipalities will receive roughly the same amount according to the draft budget for 2017 as the planned budget proposal for this year is HUF 668 billion, which is 6 billion more than this year's budget. If I wanted to be ironic, this 6 billion Matolcsy would have a pen stroke if one of his friends or relatives had to hand out money, but it is not comparable to Matolcsy's money distribution with the municipal system, which is a serious sub-scheme of Hungary's institutional system. What's this 668 billion going to do? 155 billion general support, 198 billion children's meals and cultural tasks are essentially unchanged, and HUF 31.2 billion is included in the draft. Supplementary support is significantly reduced by the 16th, compared to 107 billion a year, to 62.7 billion, and a new line of stockpiling subsidies included 33.2 billion in the government. That's how the $668 billion budget comes together. At the same time, the municipalities will be able to raise an unchanged amount for the functioning of their office next year, and neither will the basic support for public lighting nor the maintenance of public cemetery and the maintenance of roads. At the level of the local government budget, however, it seems that with the exception of large cities, but including medium-sized cities and smaller settlements, it will cause increasing problems in the lives of municipalities, since we already see that a lot of municipalities have just enough money to pay their monthly bills. It is no coincidence that most of the settlements, by the way, need to contact the government during the year for additional support so that they can maintain their ability to function. The problem is, of course, the same as in many other Fidesz logics: obviously, the settlement where a government representative is leading the settlement is about the required, I say once again, the support necessary for their ability to function is also available. But there are settlements where it doesn't exactly turn out that way. What can local governments do to have more resources if the government does not provide them with enough? On the one hand, they can make use of what the government gave them as an opportunity two years ago, i.e. they can levy a municipal tax on the population, so they can obviously increase their income. But the majority of the municipalities obviously do not do so, because they perceive precisely that, in addition to central taxes and contributions, people cannot take on any additional burden, nor do I believe that the local leaders are interested in introducing another municipal tax. If they do not do so, then there is obviously another possibility that on the cash social security system, which is now becoming less and less experienced by the government, since last year there has been a significant change, this has actually ceased since 1 March 2015, but in some way each settlement is also trying to save some money for social expenditure, so what it can do is to try to save money on this care system. In many cases, it is obviously said that these expenditures are managed by the municipalities from the business tax. Obviously, this is not the role of the business tax, but rather the development of settlements, but there are a lot of settlements, especially in smaller municipalities, where otherwise this trade tax does not exist. We see, therefore, that since 2010, it has indeed been the downsizing of the municipalities, it can be said that they are being liquidated, because, as I said earlier, in addition to the fact that the State has taken on a number of tasks from the municipalities, it has also taken away a number of resources, and we are even firmly claiming that they have taken away much more resources from the municipalities than the State has taken over. They took away the right to maintain schools, next year there is news that there will be full nationalisation in the field of public education, which is completely incomprehensible, because if the KLIK system has not worked so far, which was about the maintenance system, then why does the government think that, by the way, if the management tasks will be taken away from the municipalities, it would work better. [[21.40]] Rather, I think that the path should have been to give back the resources to the municipalities, to the municipalities who would have assumed the right to maintain the schools, and also to act as operators. In 2015, as I said, financial social assistance for municipalities was significantly reduced. Let me give you the example of Szeged, while the city received nearly 900 million forints in 2010, last year it was 182 million forints, but because of the change in tax power this year, in the next draft budget, this means zero forints for the city. Obviously, the city can still create its own framework, its own fund, because however much the government prefers the work, there are situations of life and there are people who are in a difficult situation without their own fault, and these people must be helped at this moment or in this state. So what we see is that nearly 3,000 municipalities will not be able to use freely next year, and it can be said that the municipalities will in fact be fully exposed to occasional subsidies, as I said, and they can only become executives of the central will. And then we didn't really talk about the salaries of civil servants or civil servants. For eight years, the salary fund, which concerns civil servants and civil servants, has been frozen, and although there really is now a 30 per cent salary increase from 1 July, a request has been announced to those working in district and government offices, but they also want to reduce the number of employees, and they do not talk about the 24-25 thousand municipal employees who also work as civil servants, and indeed there has not been a salary or wage increase for eight years. It is not an answer, as the representative of the government at the public service agreement forum stated, that, in fact, the municipalities have nothing to do with the government, the municipalities are solving the wage increase for their own employees. What can you do? What do we want from the government? First of all, to initiate or amend, as far as possible, a series of decisions which significantly and seriously affect the freedom of settlements to decide and which undermine the economic autonomy of settlements. It is necessary to clarify what the tasks of the state, what the tasks of the municipalities are, to achieve a clear division of tasks and, where possible, to provide local governments with substantially more revenue. The residual part of the car tax should be increased, and the previous part of personal income tax should also be returned, which has been taken from the municipalities, and the Socialist Group will propose how to increase the revenue of municipalities. I was talking about the system of public education, and I think that if you give back the resources to the municipalities that are committed to the right to maintain and operate schools, those schools will work much more efficiently than if nationalisation were to take place in its entirety. There are also huge problems in the field of waste transport. On April 1, a coordinating centre was set up to which the waste transfer fee actually flows, but no one knows that local government companies or companies of local government associations, which carried out the task, will receive back the amount of this money and whether these companies will be able to operate at all. And I don't think anyone wants the whole country to be covered in eyes. In the end, I would therefore like to ask the government to grant greater rights, greater economic autonomy to the municipalities, to ensure that they receive more revenue, and the process that affects the direction of strong centralisation, towards the complete liquidation of the local government, to be stopped as far as possible. Thank you.
u2016-05-11-146	Thank you very much, Congressman. Congressman Roland Mengyi, representative of Fidesz. Here you go.
u2016-05-11-147	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to address the tax policy considerations and measures of the 2017 budget in my brief speech. The fiscal policy orientations of the 2017 budget are extremely clear and show the intentions of the civilian government, since the tax changes planned from 2017 are primarily aimed at supporting families, whitening the economy, simplifying taxation and promoting further economic growth. Tax measures in recent years have led to the establishment of a tax system to support families, employment and the most disadvantaged in the labour market. In addition to reducing the burden on living labour, the tax burden on businesses and measures to combat the whitening of the economy and the black economy have reduced the efficiency of tax collection and increased revenues from consumption and traffic taxes. The tax reduction, which also characterizes the 2017 budget, is in line with the Fidesz government's six-year practice. What are the most important tax policy measures? One of the most important cornerstones of our tax reduction policy, therefore, in 2017 it will remain the key to personal income tax, which is one of the lowest in Europe. From 2016 personal income tax decreased to 15 percent, so the annual income of a two-seeker family with an average income increase by about HUF 60 thousand compared to the previous year. We are, of course, committed to the policy of tax reduction and our aim is to ensure that Hungarians continue to pay the lowest possible personal income tax in Europe. The tax reduction will continue in other areas as from 1 January 2017 the overall turnover tax on key foods, milk, poultry and eggs will be reduced to 5 percent. Prior to this, the VAT on pigmeat decreased to the same level already in 2016. In fact, the reduction of the general turnover tax on key foods is one of the new, very important steps in reducing the cost of living for all generations, especially for older people. As a result of the planned reduction in VAT on poultry meat, milk, eggs and restaurant catering from next year, a family will be left with 35-40 thousand forints a year. The impact of the VAT reduction on the prices of the products concerned will be reflected, which, according to our calculations, will lead to an average decrease in consumer prices of more than 10 per cent, as can be seen from the experience of pigmeat. As you know, the VAT on pigmeat has been reduced from 27 to 5 per cent, which has resulted in significant results in a short period of time, as it has resulted in a 17 per cent reduction in prices, saving a total of HUF 25 000 million for families. A total of HUF 59 billion is saved in the food economy, and the total VAT reduction for the next year is HUF 100 billion. In addition to reducing VAT on basic foods, we want to reduce the VAT on restaurant services from 27 to 18 per cent in the budget and then 5 per cent in 2018. Reducing the sales tax on restaurant services to 18 percent in the first year could save HUF 8.5 billion for families. Tax incentives and family tax incentives are further expanded, as the budget supports families and home creation. As it is clear from the budgets of recent years and from 2017 we remain one of the most important tasks of strengthening families and reducing their tax burden. Thanks to family tax incentives, families with two children with average incomes will continue to have higher incomes next year, and by 2019 the tax allowance will gradually double, from HUF 10 000 per child to HUF 20 000, which will increase to HUF 15 000 per child in 2017. [[21.50]] The annual income of a family with two children may rise by an additional HUF 60,000. The tax relief of the first married couple, according to which the couple or one of them decided to reduce their combined tax base by HUF 33 300 per month during the course of the year in 2017, will be granted for two years even if the child is born. We all know that an increase in the number of marriages, together with the birth of more children, can significantly help to halt and hopefully also reverse the current negative demographic trends. The focus of home creation and tax policy will also be to reduce the VAT on the construction of new homes, which will continue to be 5 percent, from 27 percent. Ladies and gentlemen, The results of the national consultation on the Internet showed that Hungarian families also support Fidesz' tax reduction policy in the field of Internet usage. Reducing the VAT on internet use will save citizens HUF 15 billion. From January 2017, the VAT on internet use has been reduced from the current 27 to 18 percent. With the VAT reduction, subscribers will be able to save at least one month a year. Ladies and gentlemen, Since this morning, I have been aware that in opposition speeches, there is an identical idea: there is no tax reduction, if there is a tax reduction, it does not actually do anything for people, but if it does, this budget is not for people. And back to the old saying, the single-key tax system is not effective or even particularly harmful. I have just given a long list of the most important tax policy measures that prove the falseness of these opposition claims. But let me give you some more numbers. In the last six years, the single-key tax system of Hungarian families and people has left HUF 3600 000 million, or HUF 3600 billion. It is very difficult to say that it is partly non-tax reductions and, in part, that a single-key tax would be harmful for families. At the same time, the damage to socialist governance - we know that between 2002-2010, socialist-liberal governments conceptually increased the tax burden on families whenever they could, for sure every year - so, thanks to the family tax system restored after the damage of the socialists, in the last four years, around HUF 800 billion remained with Hungarian families. In the last four years, Hungarians have only remained around HUF 800 billion thanks to the family tax system. 1.1 million people have lost their taxes, including 300,000 do not have to pay taxes at all. Ladies and gentlemen, It is therefore clear that both the Fidesz government and its 2017 budget support tax reductions, support families, support businesses, strengthen the economy, and therefore I call for you to support the budget plan for these purposes. Thank you so much for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of Fidesz.]]
u2016-05-11-148	Thank you very much. Congressman Sebestyén, the representative of Jobbik is coming. Here.
u2016-05-11-149	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen of the State Secretary. After a lot of speeches, Mr Secretary of State spoke out of his mouth to cheer up the public work programme. As a social worker, I see it a little differently. I see the public work programme as being very good for improving statistical data, such as improving employment data or reducing social spending, but let us not forget that it is not yet an employment policy measure, but a social policy measure, and indeed social expenditure is the money spent on public work. In addition, if we are talking about statistics, we can also achieve distortions in statistics that increase employment poverty, employee poverty, in parallel with the development or extension of the public work programme, the risk of poverty or poverty among workers with eight general or less qualifications has increased. So let's not confuse these things. [[Dr. János Latorcai, vice-president of the Parliament, takes the chair.]] There is only one advantage, perhaps an economic advantage, in addition to the social advantage of the Public Works Programme, that the increased benefit - because it represents some level of progress for beneficiaries - increases the revenue from consumption for the State at some level, but we do not really see any advantage in it, nor do I see it from a professional point of view. During the introduction, we heard what we always said, that, unfortunately, since the change of regime, two generations had grown up without seeing their parents go to work in the morning and not seeing them come home tired in the afternoon. Now you may see him leaving in the morning, but you may see him coming home in a few hours, or you may see on your way to school or on your way from school what kind of activity they do or do not do or what alibi activities they often do with public workers. We've been talking about the wages of social workers. It's an outrage! For years, they have been promising to deceive the profession by introducing a social pay table. Instead, we don't get to see anything but give different allowances. There are several problems with replacements. One problem is its unpredictability, the other is that it does not give them the right to other additional benefits, nor can it be reported to the specialists or other allowances, so it does not increase their salary so much, and the third is that a government decree can give them a supplement at one moment and it can be taken away at another. So they've been promising it for years. If you look at this year's budget, you can see that the 2017 launch, which was waved at the end of last year, will not happen either, because we do not see any traces of this in the budget. This is a serious problem. We know very well that people in education are not very good at making money, nor are they in health care. And when we compare average salaries, we see that in the social sector, they are 38 percent behind on education workers and 22 percent behind on health care workers. Many social workers are struggling with hunger. As my fellow Member, Mr President Novák, has already said before me, there are a number of times when professionals may encounter the problem that people with financial or other social problems are in a better financial environment and in a better income environment than those who should be helped. When I started working in the social sphere in the '90s, there was a view that the social sphere was the occupation of the wives of well-earned husbands, because if both earners work in the social sphere or as civil servants in this sector in a two-seeker family model, then they can't maintain a family fairly. Unfortunately, this pay situation also contributes to growing the profession, even though we know very well that this is precisely the sector where the gender ratio should be balanced from the point of view of the workers, so that it could be really effective work. This does not lead anywhere, so the social care system will not be sustainable, because it is the main support of professionals working in it. And speaking of social services, child welfare and family support services have undergone a major transformation. From 1 January this year, children's welfare centers stood up, they received a lot of extra tasks, but they did not receive the guarantee of all these additional tasks. If we are talking about professional transformation, then we are talking about a technically justified transformation, only this justified transformation can be best implemented or effectively implemented if we give them the conditions to meet those professional requirements, they can make those professional developments, and the goal for which this transformation has taken place in passwords and in lonzunges can be achieved. As we do not see in the budget that this professional work or improvement of quality can be strengthened, we can only say that this is probably just about saving again and that again they want to put a sector that is not in a very good position in a worse position with their measures. [[22.00]] Now it is delegated to child welfare centers a task in which the government has been failing for years, which is the introduction of school social work. In the original idea it was so, and in the government's plans, there must be a social worker in every school on a compulsory basis, which would otherwise be justified in order to take the possible missteps at the beginning, at the beginning we will take the missteps of children's lives or even endangerments or abuse that such a professional could experience directly in the educational institution. On the other hand, when school social work was included in the legislation after a few years of failure, it came in conditionally that family support services could carry out this task. The two have been merged, the children's welfare centers have been established, the conditional mode is still in the law. But if we look at the fact that we don't really see an increase in professional numbers at child welfare centers, the strain hasn't really changed. Of course, some kind of load sharing can happen by merging the two services, but there is still an overload on the part of family care workers working in this area, especially when it comes to regional differences. Let's just say we're comparing an Ozdi and a child welfare center in Sopron, and we're finding that where there's a very big problem, they're working with multiple cases, even according to the legal regulations, which they can't really provide. And if we add that they should or have the opportunity to provide social work at school, then we can see that this is impossible. And without school social work, we can't achieve a lot of results in dealing with the problems we have in the educational institution. By the way, with our amendment, we also proposed that a larger amount be transferred to school social work, specifically, so that it can be launched effectively and effectively, if not with a social worker at all schools, but with the regular presence of a social worker. And speaking of children, in terms of the mental situation of children, or in terms of their psychic situation, we can see what we have been saying for years, and we have been submitting it as an amendment to each budget for years, but it should be spent to improve child psychiatric care in the country. At least every county seat should have a psych ward. Until that happens, we won't be able to achieve a result. Unfortunately, I'm not saying that we should stigmatize our children and call out more children to be sick and put out a picture of the need for child psychiatry. But if we look around and look at the cases we encounter, whether from the point of view of child violence or deviant behavior, or from the point of view of the psychic situation of children, then I say that at least every county seat would require a psychiatry, even because of its preventive nature. Without it, it is unthinkable to get out of this situation. But once again, among all the things I have listed in my own profession, the most important is the wage-setting of social workers, I think that instead of one or two wasteful, prime minister's or any ministry's editions, or perhaps one or two stadiums, or the creation or creation of a small railway, it would be more important to have a sound basis for the social care system, a balanced workforce that can achieve results. Because what are we experiencing these days? We see blinded professionals in a positive sense and placed in a quotation mark, who do their job conscientiously in whatever financial circumstances, under any strain. Otherwise, you can't do that to them forever. We see the process of many professionals, even with more degrees, going out to one of the Western countries, England, Ireland or Germany, and working as a loader in a multinational trading chain, or, better than that, caring for an elderly person or a disabled person to survive or to provide a future for himself. Or we can see that in areas with very limited job opportunities, this sector is being chosen as a forced career. But we know very well that this work cannot be done without dedication. Without dedication, really great results cannot be achieved. By the way, when I ask the Minister about the employment situation of social workers in any genre of Parliament, and I usually get an answer from the Secretary of State, I always get the answer to what great measures the Orbán government has had since 2010, they mention the allowances, which I just said, why it is not good, in many cases family tax relief is mentioned. But if we're at the point of getting a career-starting social worker, say a graduate, a social educator, or a social worker, he goes to work in the social sphere, takes home 100-110 thousand forints, when he gets to the level of starting a family. When will you get to the level of access to a family tax allowance for a child? The great measures of the CSOK are mentioned as to what results can be achieved. Again, I'm saying, by the time you get to the point where you can have a baby, how to use the CSOK to start a family. The other option is that simply a social worker who is working today, unless his or her spouse or parents are in very good financial conditions, does not have the opportunity to have his or her own property and home in the foreseeable future. So it is not necessary to find explanations, not to show good works that exist, or to show positive directions that do not exist, but to introduce the social pay table. To this end, we tabled an amendment to the 2017 budget. I ask you to accept it, and by 2017, finally fulfill your promises and introduce the social career model. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2016-05-11-150	Thank you very much, Congressman. In the absence of two-minute speeches, we will continue with the proper speeches. From the Fidesz Group, Mr Ferenc Hirt is next. Here you go, Congressman.
u2016-05-11-151	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Dear House, Dear fellow Members, We have Hungary's 2017 budget ahead of us, and I would like to start my comment differently from my preliminary plans. The attack on Mr. Péter Banai's Secretary of State led me to go down to the faction office and collect some data from the Socialist Party's budget, and I would like to read this here, because I think they are wrestlers for today's evening. So I started collecting data from 2001, and I would like to present 33 European countries as a comparison here. These 33 countries extend from Portugal to Turkey. Only to fix the starting position: in 2001 the general government deficit of the Orbán government was 4%. In 2002, the socialists were able to produce 9 percent of the general government deficit, the second worst figure in Europe. In 2003, they produced 7.2 percent, which was the third worst figure in Europe. In 2004 something was improved, 6.4 percent of the general government deficit was achieved, the second worst figure in Europe in 33 countries. Then 2005, when the socialists were still struggling with a wealth of money, they had a deficit of 7.9 percent, which was the worst figure in Europe. So they were European champions in 2005. Then, in 2006, as memorable, the autumn speech took place on 26 May, it was made public on 17 September, where all socialist representatives knew how bad the problem was, and in 2006 you showed a 9.4 percent deficit. They are so proud of this, the first worst shortage in Europe. [[22.10]] Then in 2007, there was a 5.1 percent deficit, this was the second worst, in 2008 they improved, 3.7 percent deficit, this is the ninth worst place. Let's look at the unemployment figures. The first Orbán government handed over 239 thousand unemployed to the country, in 2003, you raised this number to 244 thousand, in 2004 to 253 thousand, in 2005 to 304 thousand, in 2006 to 317 thousand, and in 2010 to virtually 475,000. So they're so proud of this, and they're scolding the budget that we planned with practically 2.4 percent deficit, and this year's figures clearly show that there hasn't been such a low deficit in public finances in the first four months of 15 years. Then, if we look at the public debt, in 2001 53.1 percent of the first Orbán government's public debt was raised to 55.9 percent of GDP, in 2002 to 58.6 percent in 2003, in 2004 to 59.5 percent, in 2005 to 61.7 percent, and in 2010 to 82.2 percent in the end. So they're so proud of that. But I don't want to go on with your rampage, and you're so proud of that, and you're scolding us and Mr. Secretary of State. I think we should slow down the jaws. That's enough. I'd like to talk to our next year's numbers. As a representative of the Paks constituency, I am very pleased that Paks II. Next year, we are planning HUF 99 billion for nuclear power plant investment, and I very much hope that the European Union will give this investment a green light in June and that it will finally be able to start. I am used to talking to the budgets in general in the social field and in terms of people with disabilities, and I am doing so now, and I am making an exception. I really like that you drink milk! The budget is 4.2 billion forints instead of 2.6 billion forints. Then, the disabled have HUF 841 million available in the next year's budget, HUF 160 billion in programmes to promote equal opportunities for people with disabilities, HUF 535 million in sign language translation and visual rehabilitation support, HUF 447 million in support of disabled sports, HUF 30 million in support of the Autism Foundation, HUF 30 million in support of Equal Opportunities for Persons with Disabilities, Közhasznú Nonprofit Kft. to support 252 million forints, to support the National Association of Deafs and Nagyodhalók 181 million forints, to receive HUF 176.4 million forints next year, to support the National Association of the Hungarian Blinds and Látók, to support HUF 181.8 million, to support the National Association of the Autists will receive HUF 55.1 million next year, to receive HUF 10 million forints from the KézenFogva Foundation, to promote the integration of people with disabilities into the labour market, to propose HUF 239 million forints, to support the employment of workers with disabilities, HUF 34 billion forints and HUF 63 billion forints for district and social tasks. So I would ask the esteemed opposition to support this budget, and the socialists to try to do their stunt a little modestly. Thank you very much. [[Interview from the ranks of the MSZP: We take the advice! Applause in the ranks of Fidesz.]]
u2016-05-11-152	Thank you very much, Congressman. Mr László Varga is coming from the MSZP Group. Here you go.
u2016-05-11-153	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen of the State Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, It's the 11th of May, and it's the festival of Miskolc. Today was the Miskolc Celebration Assembly, and this was a good time to review the location of the city. I would like to congratulate the city's winners. In other words, this morning, partly on the part of the city's leadership, beyond the fact that we could appreciate and greet real great performances in Miskolc, I could also listen to a success propaganda on the part of the city's leadership as a kind of interpretation of reality. And the other side of the medal is that yesterday afternoon I had a street hours in front of the Bükk Store in Újgyőri square, and people came to me with amazing problems. In addition to the fact that today is a holiday, I think it is appropriate to talk about both in a budget debate, because both are issues that do determine the future of Hungary. The problem is that you talk less about negatives, and that's what people are talking about in the first place, which defines their lives. In addition to the proganda of success, it is important to state the situation in the region today. There is indeed a 2.5 percent economic growth, which can be seen in this year's budget, but virtually everyone in the Visegrád Four is expecting higher growth. Slovakia with 3.2, Poland with 3.7, Romania with 4.2. This Hungarian growth consists primarily of the development, growth of the automotive industry and the use of EU funds. In my immediate environment, walking through Borsod County, Eastern Hungary, I find that Hungarian SMEs often find it difficult to get involved in development, often uncertain, and in this there is also a policy that seems anticompetitive, in Hungarian, that entrepreneurs close to Fidesz often come up in a tender, in a grant scheme, and that is not really the talent that determines who can prevail. In other words, SMEs, which could be useful in the long term, can continue to grow in Hungary even after using EU funds, thus making it more difficult for them to achieve economic growth. We are often accused of state debt in terms of how much it has increased during our government cycle, and this is a difficult to deny situation, by the way, indeed, it has increased, but then how do we appreciate that, compared to a state debt situation below 20 thousand billion nominal levels in 2010, today, there is over 25 000 billion, and this has been achieved by spending, by the way, three thousand billion more private pension funds. I would confirm now that I am going to say this again because either the government debt at that time shouldn't include or count this 3,000 billion, so we get a real picture of the state of the country, so the government debt has actually increased by over 8,000 billion in this period. It has been said many times, but not enough is the biggest problem in your policy, and this is the result of the past six years. In the last six years, the difference between the poorest and the richest has increased tenfold between the poorest tenth and the richest tenth. It's an amazing growth. I may have started my speech a little further because I have the reality, the narrow social layer that is the beneficiary of your policy, and you may indeed feel that you are living significantly better than you would otherwise have before 2010, but there are more than four million people living below the minimum living standards, and indeed these people have fewer and fewer resources, their real position is getting worse, and their everyday life is getting harder and harder. There's a difference, which is why we started our pay-raise campaign. My statement is that this is also the solution to the issue of emigration. So it is not just a social issue, it is obviously its importance, but it is Hungary's competitiveness barrier, and it is an obstacle to economic growth that, with such low wages, skilled workers migrate. So there is high unemployment in some regions at the same time, but a shortage of skilled workers. The answer to this would obviously be that they do not spread their hands and say that trade unions and employers will somehow agree, but, where appropriate, a very strong increase in the minimum wage is required with a multi-party consensus, and the guaranteed minimum wage should also be increased. Compared to 2010, the forint weakened by more than 15 percent. That has been said. This was felt by foreign exchange lenders, by the way. You can see that the MNB's policy is now this weak forint. I think it's a wrong story. A significant proportion of the profits were generated by this, which we see in the context of the MNB scandals, while foreign exchange lenders were forced to forint their own credit at a much higher price. [[22.20]] This meant a clear deterioration in their position; it should not have been turned over to the foundations of the MNB, but really solved the problem of foreign exchange lenders.In 2009, 17.7 percent of the budget was spent on the social field, according to the plan for 2017. Obviously, they will immediately say that because of employment. Obviously, we could talk about community service here, and the essential and truly worthless part of it. I'd like to put it back on the table, too dependent on local creativity for what happens in community service. Many times, if there is an innovative local community or mayor, this can create value, but mostly there is a very bad opinion of public work. Public workers, too, should have much more ambitious work. It has been said that 47,000 can be lived, and you have represented it for a long time. Indeed, they would like to live better, earn more, but create real value, because this is not very motivating, and only a fraction of them can find employment in the primary labour market. I feel like this situation is stuck. If the majority of the government cannot make a difference, it is difficult to come out of this, while there is a real shortage of skilled workers. I think there are a lot of things about this, and until these questions are resolved, almost half of Hungarian society will feel like a total loser. And the solution to this is not that the KSH does not disclose the minimum living data or uses other methods, but should indeed use meaningful solutions. In short, I would suggest to you, on this basis, that you face greater intellectual challenges in politics than eight years. It's been six years since your administration. There will also come a moment, and I think that this will be about the eight years that the Hungarian society will evaluate, compared to the start of the start of the ten, the 18th, and, of course, there are always inheritances in a government, and there are always perspectives, there are always promises, and then we will see, and the people too, I hope you will see what has come out of it. I say that Hungarian society has gone back to the state of the first half of the '90s when the social scissors open completely, and indeed, I believe that many people in your environment may not experience these social problems, but the people of the street put these problems on the table in Miskolc, Borsod County, Eastern Hungary. I would also like to talk briefly about two systems on which there were two days of debate before the Parliament: on the one hand, the health system and, on the other hand, the education system. I think the problem with both of them is that you were led by the misconception that if these are centralized, you can save a great deal of resources, because these are very wasteful subsystems. There may have been some truths in this part, so it has been said that the drug register can win money with blinds, for example, but I think that overall the resources extracted from health care have resulted, for example - that I should only talk about my narrower Patria - that, say, in Diósgyőr, adult general health care services have ceased, that otherwise, the Iron Factory hospital will be evacuated practically, that in a single hospital in Miskolc, where there are amazing lines, there are irritable people. Obviously, this is also a humiliating situation for health workers who are otherwise underpaid and their real positions have deteriorated significantly. This situation results in the average person facing the health problem by significantly worsening the level of care. While, by the way, much is being developed through EU funds, a significant part by way of pre-2010 decisions. You can't save it in this regard. Health care will collapse if there is no strong wage increase in this regard. This has been said once again with my fellow opposition Members on one last day of debate, which cannot wait. This is a fundamental question. As regards education, this wave of protests started from Miskolc, which started in early January, and on 3 February, the largest protest in the region brought together 5,000 people in Miskolc and then a national protest. To this day, I feel that they do not hear what is meaningful in this regard, they are trying to give purely political answers, and they think that teachers have had problems primarily with their own salary when they put countless problems on the table. What's the answer? I think centralization was the wrong answer in the first place. Now comes total centralization, as I understand it, which will provide even less autonomy for local educators. To make a point here too: I think that in small settlements there can be good state reservations in very disadvantaged districts. Maybe it's an innovative thing, because otherwise they could make an expense for the settlements. But in large settlements, in school towns, in Szeged - here is my fellow Member Sándor Szabó - or in Miskolc, where there is a really great tradition of education, I must say that it would also be in the best interests of the city to ask for our schools back. And that's what I'm saying even if our government - obviously pro-government - doesn't sound like it, because that city is capable of carrying out this task, and I feel, in health care anyway, but also in education, that when this story was directly attached to the bodies elected by local communities, the mayors, it was much more the local politics that felt that these two spheres had to work better and reacted more directly to these problems. I very much hope that we will be able to make progress in these, not only in this financial sense, but also in terms of the system as a whole. But what I hear about the future of local governments in general is not in this direction, unfortunately. Finally, one thing: this year again, I have tabled countless amendments for my constituency as a Member of the Parliament of Miskolc, but here I can mention Varbo, Parasnya, Radostyán, Sajólászlófalva and Sajólászlófabony, so all the settlements of my district. These are all problems that I think need to go beyond party policy. They're about old, long-awaited investments, social problems that need to be solved locally. I ask you to consider this from the point of view of the local community if any of my amendments come before your committee. I am an opposition representative, but I am an individual representative of this area, and I will fight for further improvements to be made here. Please consider my proposals and at least support some of them. Thank you, Mr. President.
u2016-05-11-154	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Government, Mr László Palkovics, State Secretary, asked for the floor. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2016-05-11-155	Thank you very much. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen of the Council, For the last comment, although this has been published in several elements, I would like to briefly respond to the situation of education as to how this will be formed in the 2016 amendments and in the 2017 budget. I think that - and this he did not understand it, as I have seen it, criticism - the fact that the budget for 2017 has an amount of HUF 270 billion in total in all areas of education, including universities, including state-owned institutions, including the institutional system of vocational training, I believe that this means that the government treats education as an absolutely important area. What the consequences of this funding will then be, or what systems will develop, I think it would be very difficult to say that saving would be the goal here, saving, in any way, by transforming the system. What is a good solution to the functioning of the institutional system, the Member mentioned the open letter from Herman Otto High School and what caused this. I went to Herman Otto High School, and I spent six hours there, trying to really understand, and we had a really good conversation with the faculty, by the way. Unfortunately, in a significant part of the contents of Herman Ottó High School's letter highlighted the problems of municipal operation. Obviously, that could change. I think that it is not the municipality that is important here, but that if the state takes this responsibility, then it must also operate. I believe that these guarantees are part of the budget, and partly with the measures that we have been working on for several months - and not only on the transformation of state reservations or operation - we can guarantee that the school system is stable, and otherwise it will work well. So I'm asking you to support this budget in this way. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-05-11-156	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. From the Fidesz Group, Mr Zsolt Csenger-Zalán applied for a speech. Here you go, Congressman.
u2016-05-11-157	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, My fellow Member, László Varga, repeated a recurring socialist mantra, which said that public debt had increased in our time. I'd like to tell you that government debt is measured to GDP. This has risen from 50 to 84 percent in your eight years in our time, and it's now under 80 percent in the past. [[22.30]] Undoubtedly, it does not decrease as much as we want it to. The other, also repeated mantra, which always returns, is the depreciation of the forint. I would like to point out that between 2002 and 2010, the value of the HUF decreased by 24-25 percent, i.e. from 230 to 285. But that's not why I asked you to speak, but to talk about budgetary issues in the field of foreign affairs. Well, if this year is characterised by the fact that, thanks to the successful economic policy of the government and, not least, the efforts of the Hungarian people, everyone can take a step forward, and this is what it is characterized by, the next year and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Trade, we can talk about two steps, or at least a very big step, because next year the Ministry's budget will increase by almost 40 percent to 177 billion forints. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Trade has already indicated on its behalf that it is responsible for two closely interlinked sub-areas which should be examined separately from a budgetary point of view. On the one hand, the aim of the portfolio's external economic activity is to facilitate the implementation of large-scale investment projects, which are of national importance in terms of operational capital inflows in Hungary, and on the other hand to increase the chances and share of small and medium-sized enterprises in Hungary's access to the external market. For this purpose, a total of HUF 33.7 billion is available next year, more than three times as much as in 2016, i.e. this year. Hungary is also on the right track to develop its external trade relations, as in February 2016 the foreign trade surplus was EUR 979 million on the basis of preliminary data from the HCSO. However, there is still work to be done, since unfortunately not all indicators are so impressive. Hungary's lack of foreign trade transactions with countries outside the European Union was HUF 1400 billion in 2010, i.e. in the year of the change of government, we bought from these countries for more money than we sold to them. The Orbán government has been able to reduce this deficit significantly almost every year, resulting in a decline of only HUF 140 billion in 2015 to the end, i.e. one tenth of the deficit. If this trend continues - and why shouldn't it continue, as all the conditions are given - this value may turn positive at the end of 2017. A country planning serious and continuous development, such as Hungary, cannot neglect the economic potential that lies in markets in countries outside the EU. For this reason, the government intends to continue to develop our external economic relations in 2017, within which the amount to be allocated to the external economic development target is more than eightfold, I stress: eight times higher than in 2016. This ensures further expansion of the successful foreign economic efforts that have begun, which considers the access of Hungarian products to the foreign market as one of its main tasks. What is good and beneficial for the country must be continued, developed, perfected. This is also the case by encouraging investment, which remains a priority objective for the government. This is also indicated by an increase in the investment promotion target by almost 190 percent. A significant proportion of these investments support sectors dealing with chapters such as machinery and means of transport or processed products, which together represented 88.1 percent of Hungarian external trade exports in 2015. At the same time, these investments are also important supporters of the Hungarian strategy for job creation. In part, thanks to such developments, they worked with 145 thousand people in the January-March 2016 period, more people work in the country than they did a year ago. I am even more pleased that more and more Hungarian-owned companies can participate in these programmes and become a significant factor in foreign markets. The latest positive example is the announcement of the state aid investment of a Cegléd car, machine and electric industrial component company with a total of HUF 6.3 billion, which is planned to create 250 new jobs. This project will therefore not only increase export capacity in Hungary, but will also have a positive impact on the preservation of the population in the region, helping the people who live there to live there. As regards the classic foreign affairs and diplomatic tasks, the budget for the central administration of the Ministry will increase by 20 percent this year to HUF 9.5 billion, with operating expenses of HUF 1.6 billion more than this year. The amount available for foreign representations will also increase by 20 percent, by HUF 12.5 billion. If we look back over the past years, we can see that the available resources are growing exponentially year after year: by 5 percent in 2015, by 13 percent in 2016 and by 20 percent next year. The operation of Hungarian foreign institutions under the control of the Balassi Institute amounts to 2.9 billion out of the 7.2 billion increase in the operating budget. In addition to 2 billion this year, a further 2.6 billion will be allocated next year to the expansion of the external economic attaché network. The amount for investments and renovations also increases to an unprecedented extent, to three times the amount, to HUF 7.7 billion. 13 key foreign representations, including Berlin, London, Paris, Warsaw, Moscow, Vienna, New York and Beijing, will be fully renovated for a total of HUF 4 billion. For car purchases, 150 million and 100 million forints for IT devices. The number of people working at foreign representations increases by 21 more than the 90 people received from the Balassi Institute, to a total of 1360 people. The line could continue. For example, this year's budget of the Centre for Democracy can be managed three times next year. There will also be four times more resources for international development cooperation next year than this year, and the latter also follows from Hungary's firm position that the causes of the migration crisis really need and can be addressed by helping to stay in place. Ladies and gentlemen, In my view, the main new element of the Ministry's budget, which is largely for national policy purposes, is support for economic development programmes in neighbouring countries. This completely new initiative enables the integration of Hungarian communities within and across borders, which are functionally interconnected, in an economic sense. A total of HUF 15.8 billion will be available for this purpose, of which 7.6 billion will be available for Vojvodina, 5.2 billion for Transcarpathia, 1-1 billion for Transylvania and the Highlands, and 0.5-0.5 billion for Croatian and Slovenian areas. Between 2016 and 2018 the government provides non-refundable support to small and medium-sized enterprises in Vojvodina and the farmers living there. [[22.40]] This year there will be 5 billion HUF 7.5-7.5 billion in 2017 and 2018. The resources spent on running the necessary institutional system next year represent just over 1 percent of the amount of the tender. The partners of the government are the legitimate political representatives of the Hungarian local community, the Hungarian Association of Vojvodina in Vojvodina and the Hungarian Cultural Association of Transcarpathia in Transcarpathia. As far as Transylvania and the Highlands are concerned, the specific economic development objectives have not yet been defined, but the government's intention is that the amount of aid is already included in the budget. It should be stressed that the amount of 1 to 1 billion currently available only relates to the pilot phase of the programme, on which it will be possible to implement a programme of up to one magnitude larger in the coming years. This cross-border economic development programme has moved an unprecedented amount of resources since the change of regime, significantly increasing the durability of these areas, helping the Hungarian communities to thrive in their homeland. To sum up, ladies and gentlemen, the budget before us enables balanced, firm and consistent development both in the areas of foreign and foreign policy and in our national policy objectives in the Carpathian Basin. That is why I ask you to support Hungary's 2017 budget. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause on the pro-government side.]]
u2016-05-11-158	Thank you very much, Congressman. From the Jobbik Group, Mr Dániel Z. Carpathian applied for a speech. Here you go, Congressman.
u2016-05-11-159	Mr President, Dear House, I try not to reopen the debates that we have not closed, but we have talked about each other, and everyone's position has become clear. For example, the issue of public debt, where a trend towards GDP and a nominal trend were roughly side-by-side in space, but both of them could tell their perceived or real truths. Here, the government has increased the annual government debt by an average of HUF 700-800 billion in seven years, and it will increase the government's debt if we just look at the figures and, in terms of the GDP-related debate, we can now talk about 75.3% of Maastricht in the period under which I opposed the 65-70 percent promise promised in the Széll Kálmán plan for this year. So there is a gap here, but I feel that it is very difficult for the current government or opposition to convince each other on this issue. On a large scale and systemic level, I see that the current government could not manage the debt mass better than the previous ones, since we are still above a HUF 1000 billion annual rate of interest repayment. So we couldn't go below 1,000 billion a year. This huge amount of interest and this payment obligation contribute to the drying up of the economy, so the systemic change has unfortunately failed. I'm just saying, unfortunately, because I'm not a fan at all, so I've been rooting for this government in this battle. At the same time, we could have much more meaningful discussions on economic growth, since it is quite clear that a country that is catching up should produce significantly more growth than a developed country. Here, even Viktor Orbán had a statement about thumb rules and other things, from which it could be concluded that we should grow and develop at twice as fast as, say, the Germans, if necessary, so that the desired approximation could be included. What we need to see is that at the moment we have to fight to ensure that the country does not fall behind or fall short of other countries in the region, because until the mid-2000s, the area was in fact only Czech Republic with a higher GDP per capita, taking into account the entire Eastern European region. At present, however, we need to focus on the country called Slovakia and Poland, and even Romania is approaching the point of becoming a serious competitor in this area. It would now be a perfect loss in proportion to Austria and perhaps unhistoric, since we see Austria's specific GDP is twice as high. This is painful because we have not had such a difference since Mary Theresa, and it is even more painful that by 1938 we reached about three quarters of the Austrian level. So there was a period in Hungarian history, and XX. During the century, when these scissors were taken a little tighter. At the moment, we're experiencing about a double difference. At the same time, Hungarian workers rightly want a wage level in Western Europe in the long term, saying that our prices are also Western European, and even Jobbik has brought a lot of topics here, according to which the prices paid here are in many cases higher than those paid in Western Europe. And with faster economic growth, we could clearly approach the so-called western level of development, bake a bigger national cake, and then perhaps reduce the long-term and perhaps stop the emigration spiral, which also contributes to the desiccation of the economy. This is precisely what we are missing from this budget because of the lack of the already mentioned public housing programme, namely the target group for young people and middle-aged people, and therefore the social classes most at risk of emigration. We also see that although the government has made a worthy effort to modify the family support system, which it has been able to give here with one hand, say in the form of family tax relief, on the other hand it was actually taken away by the 27 percent VAT, the accounting profession, which is now almost 60 tax types, tax types and tax types. We also need to see that, unfortunately, the rate of population loss in 2014-2015 has spread from a population loss of 35,000 to a population loss of 40,000. There are therefore very negative trends, in addition to the fact that there were positive movements within the margin of error in the previous period, which we have recognised every time. We also need to see that long-term research studies by the HCSO deserve attention. Now should this government notice that, when the KSH warns that half of the Hungarian counties, regions, and districts may be involved in an amazing depopulation spiral that could cause up to 30-50 percent population loss by 2050-2060, here perhaps Békés County has been highlighted as a region potentially suffering from the greatest loss of population, then this government should now take action to manage employment programmes and investment, so that the most underdeveloped regions in Hungary will definitely have development resources. Unfortunately, we do not see any traces of this in this draft. But to highlight a few other issues in the short term: the budget is not only lacking in implementation and implementation of the n-2 rule, but we can also point out that all public tasks have a number of staff, which is accompanied by additional expenditure: property, welfare and the rest. Since the largest share of budget expenditure is personnel income and expenditure, the financial government should have prepared, as an integral part of the draft budget law, a detailed establishment plan that could then be approved by the Parliament, which includes which department looks forward to the near future. This not only affects many Hungarian people, but it is also a fundamental question of economic philosophy how we treat the human resource, who, by the way, must be treated not as an object, but as a human being at all ages and under all circumstances. It can also be said that this draft budget would give us a very wide margin of discretion in that, if we could just expend its outrageous expenses, so I could start, say, from moving to the Castle, from more than ten times the framework for government communication, so that we can collect a few hundred billion of outrageous items, that is not so difficult for any of us. At least with gestures and at least with regard to last year's level - otherwise weighted by inflation - they should increase orphanage, the value of widow's pensions and pensions, the framework for invalidity, rehabilitation benefits and a 1% reduction in the framework for family allowances are not so certain as to be justified. [[22.50]] So, obviously, Jobbik always wants the government, the government at all times, to support producers, workers, people who pay taxes to the extent that we can bake bigger national cakes and get as much social expenses and transfers as possible. However, this should not, under any circumstances, be accompanied by a reduction in the envelopes for the forms of social expenditure I have mentioned. I must make two more remarks to the pro-government Members, and also to the secretary of state, who has been persistent since morning, who, if we don't agree, has thrown himself into this debate many times, we see that there are always more skeletons from the closet in relation to the issues that arise. So, regardless of how we look at it, there are issues here, not only to reduce orphanage and widow's pensions, but quite simply in the context of economic growth, in relation to VAT reductions, in relation to public debt items, there have been facts and figures that at least give rise to debate. We do not have to agree here, but I feel that there is no reason for hurrahoptimism. To highlight an example: while 27 percent of the EU record era applies, let us say, to child-rearing articles, we can say very harshly, but we can say that childbearing is being taxed in Hungary all over Europe. We understand that the system of family tax incentives is trying to appease this somewhat, and we also see that the total amount can be used by those who are luckier, belong to groups called higher social classes, but we also see that on the other hand, the many exotic tax types, the unjustified burden on the population and especially workers, and the brutal VAT burden, are taking away these apparent profits. Thus, childbearing and child rearing are the most heavily taxed throughout Europe, and it is very difficult to expect a demographic turnaround in these circumstances. Finally, I would like to see at least one pro-government Member express himself during the budgetary debate on the draft European-American Free Trade Convention. With regard to TTIP, we see that although there have already been few comments in the Hungarian Parliament regarding the fact that the government does not support this draft agreement, although we would very much like Hungary to declare that even negotiations are life-threatening for Hungary, even these negotiations threaten not only our country's GMO-free status, but in fact all our living conditions, all the moments that affect our lives. So what we want to achieve is that the Government of Hungary also declares that it does not want to hire a new EU Member State without obligations in the US, that it does not want to dump food waste and dirt on the European market and thus on the Hungarian market, that it does not contribute to the pollution of our land. We must add that there are a number of other Trojan horses that the American party now wishes to squeeze into the European market, which launches perfectly intolerable processes. Literally, there must be a fight for spiritual freedom now so that as many Hungarians as possible and as many European citizens as possible are aware of what TTIP means, what a carpet bombing means for our former healthy, predictable, decent life in Hungary. Because I claim that if citizens knew this mechanism, they would know that the traitorous European Union Members have already held thirteen negotiating rounds in a case where they should have been kicked off the American table and distracted, not only from the offices but also from the city, then these citizens, I say once again, if they could have been aware of this, would also have had unsearched questions for their own elected representatives. So, using the power of the public, Jobbik puts all its efforts to stop the madness called TTIP, the draft US-European Free Trade Convention, this life-threatening, catastrophic process system. We also call on the Government of Hungary to take a clear position on how it could have been that their MEPs had given their support to this madness, or one of them allegedly called on the representatives of the V4 region to at least support the continuation of the negotiations. If that is not the case, then these Members will stand up and deny the press reports on this. But what we expect in this literal economic freedom fight is for Hungary to make at least as hard a stand as any Hungarian voter would expect if he knew these very important issues affecting negotiating rounds. And if we get to know the real danger, then I say that the voters of Hungary will only give government authority to forces who stop this economic type of carpet bombing and will confront it with all their strength. Thank you for your attention. [[Dr. László György Lukács applauds.]]
u2016-05-11-160	Thank you very much, Congressman. On behalf of the government, István Nagy, State Secretary asked for the floor. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2016-05-11-161	Thank you very much, Mr. President. The congressman called on the person who could provide some information about the TTIP [[Dániel Z. Carpathian: I have made a request, I have not called.]] - I'm very happy to give you everything I know about this. TTIP would otherwise be an important thing for a country that is increasing its economy by most exports. Any convention which ensures the free movement of goods and breaks down customs frameworks will benefit that country. At the same time, Hungary has a very important value, which is also enshrined in the basic law, and the country does not want to allow it, and this is its GMO-free nature. Because we believe and believe that the country's GMO-freeness can deliver market benefits and generate a future for Hungary that we all need very much and we all want to see it as a value. So what I can tell you is that, since Parliament has to ratify this agreement, if this agreement is born at all, the Hungarian Parliament will never ratify a treaty in which there is a GMO direction, because Fidesz and KDNP stand firm for GMO-free products and feed. After all, we are now not only concerned that seeds are GMO-free and that only those that are GMO-free should be planted, but that we are there with very advanced research that feed will also be GMO-free, so that our animal products will also be GMO-free, which we will be able to consume. So Hungary will be about the first country to be able to say its entire GMO exemption. Now the Spanish have drilled our GMO-free trademark, which is why it will be a month or two longer, but by the end of June we may have our GMO-free trademark, thus tagging the products to another market segment, we will be able to gain another market advantage, and we do not want to replace it with TTIP's GMO business. Thank you very much. [[It's a rare round of applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-05-11-162	Thank you very much. For two minutes, Dániel Z. Carpathian asked for the floor. You're not here to discuss TTIP, are you? I'm gonna close that because it doesn't belong to the budget, the budget bill at the moment. [[Dr. László György Lukács: Of course it belongs to him! Our international commitment!]] I would like to speak to everyone on this day, so I would ask Mr Dániel Z. Kárpa to say just as much as is appropriate for this István Nagy State Secretary's reply on the subject.
u2016-05-11-163	Mr President, Dear House, With due regard to decency, I would also like to draw attention to Jobbik's proposals for an amendment to the drinking water conservation and, moreover, the conservation of genes, which also characterize our basic philosophy during the budgetary debate. Therefore, we cannot say that this issue does not fall within the scope of the budgetary debate. As regards TTIP, I was reassured by the words of the Secretary of State that Hungary's GMO-free status was guaranteed by the Hungarian government. What is part of the hideous TTIP, however, is that it is not certain that Hungary will be able to escape this horror simply by refusing ratification, because according to this draft, the US multi-companies could sue those states, including Hungary, in their own non-chosen court, for which they assume a loss of profit. Therefore, Hungary may, where appropriate, be brought before a private court in connection with the authorisation of a gene-picked product, where a multi-company can claim the benefit of the lost product and, where appropriate, force authorisation in the long term. It is a life-threatening mechanism, where we expect much more from the Hungarian government than not to ratify one of these. We would expect you to have your entire arsenal, Brussels representatives, lobbyists, diplomats and representatives here to stop even the negotiations. I would like to conclude this line of thought with one example: it has already been authorised by Brussels in the process of negotiations, and it has begun its authorisation process for chemical disinfection of different types of meat. So the negotiation itself has brought concessions out of the traitors in Brussels that are completely unacceptable, life-threatening to the Hungarian national economy. We therefore expect the government, with all available means, to act without delay against the rule of the world of private courts, of multi-company companies. Thank you for the opportunity. [[Dr. László György Lukács applauds.]] [[23.00]]
u2016-05-11-164	Thank you very much, Congressman. A proper speech from the Fidesz Group will be followed by Mr Erik Bánki. Here you go, Congressman.
u2016-05-11-165	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Mr. Secretary of State! Ladies and gentlemen, Allow me to mention, first of all, the aspects of the budget for next year's Hungarian economy in my present comment. I can tell you that the period behind us, perhaps the most important result of the period between 2010 and 2016, was that, while we saved Hungary from the financial and economic crisis, we managed to stabilise a collapse budget, we were able to set up Hungary from the stage of shame of Europe, where it had been forced under the socialist governments since 1 May 2004, and we have been able to set the Hungarian economy on a permanent growth path since the beginning of our accession. We have had many critics in recent years, the European Commission, the IMF and other international organisations, but they have now realised that the Hungarian economic model is working, and the Hungarian economy is able to perform continuously. It is a very big achievement that this year we have managed to get rid of the burden of the IMF loan and we have repaid the loan from the European Commission to the last penny, so in the next year's budget we will have to manage the debt service at a much lower cost. This means that we can use the savings of more than 100 billion on this line to further develop the Hungarian economy and increase the standard of living of Hungarian families. Allow me to list some specific items in next year's budget. I think it is a great success that we have managed to carry on the VAT reduction programme that we started this year. My fellow Members also recall that, on the proposal of the Government, the Hungarian Parliament accepted the reduction of VAT on pig meat from 27% to 5%. The past period has demonstrated that not only the level of consumption of meat has increased, but it has been significantly reduced, I might say, by slowly eliminating the black economy in this area. So we expect that in the continuation, in 2017, by reducing VAT on additional basic foods such as poultrymeat, milk and eggs, we will also be able to increase retail consumption and further reduce the black economy in the marketing of these products. We believe that it will bring significant relief for domestic tourism to reduce the VAT on catering from 27% to 18%. Hungarian hospitality, gastronomy is one of the branches of domestic tourism. May I congratulate Tamás Széll and his team, who have won the Bocuse d'Or tournament in Europe, and who have won it with a high priority! I think they deserve a round of applause. This is an unexpected success, because the preliminary odds were an absolute Scandinavian success. Not only have we succeeded in preventing Norway or Denmark, but we have sent behind us gastronomic powers such as France or Italy. So I think this is not only a particularly high level of recognition for Hungarian gastronomy, but also a marketing opportunity that will further increase the traffic of foreign and domestic guests visiting us. The results of the national consultation on the Internet showed that Hungarian families specifically asked the Hungarian government to reduce the level of 27 percent of the general sales tax on the Internet service. I am very pleased with the proposal that the government has made, as it has also demonstrated that it is listening to the people's voice and that the policy that we are pursuing is based specifically on relations with people. Another important sign of this is that we will also reduce the VAT rate for Internet services from 27 percent to 18 percent next year. This is what we want to achieve, and we want to take a significant step in ensuring broadband access in all Hungarian households. In 2016, the rate of personal income tax decreased to 15 percent. This will be retained in the proposal for the following year. This means that the annual turnover of a family with an average income will increase by approximately HUF 60,000 compared to 2016. We believe that this tax reduction policy, already decided by the government in previous years, will continue to work in 2017. As a result, we will not only keep our previous successes, but we will take further serious steps. It is not possible to mention the outstanding level of the system of family tax incentives enough. We believe that the Hungarian family support system is the largest family support system in Europe, which supports families with children to the greatest extent. This is necessary, ladies and gentlemen, because when we look at demographic forecasts, we see devastating data. We see that if we fail to permanently reverse the trend that shows the decline of Hungarian society in recent years or decades, the population of Hungary may decrease by up to 2.5 to 3 million people in 15-20 years, and this would have an inaccessible impact, among other things, on the maintenance of the pension system. That is why I support it, and I am very pleased that we will be able to report on new family tax incentives in the following year.By 2019, ladies and gentlemen, the rate of tax relief will gradually increase by twice, from HUF 10 000 per child to HUF 20 000, which can be used by workers. As part of the increase, the amount of tax relief will increase to HUF 15,000 per child for the first time in 2017. Compared to the previous ones, it is new that the tax relief of first-marriages will continue to be two years in the event of the birth of the child. It is also important to note the possibility of using a family home-building discount, which is available to families not only this year but also in 2017. Parents with 3 or more children and parents who undertake them can receive a HUF 10 million non-refundable allowance for the construction or purchase of a new apartment. Support for families with one and two children is also important for the Hungarian government and Fidesz. Therefore, they will be able to receive between 600 thousand and 2 million 600 thousand forints in the event of the creation of a new home. In addition, the tax reduction for the construction of new apartments, which, like this year's changes, will be 5 percent next year compared to the previous 27 percent. In addition, the government supports housing savings with the help of national home-building communities. We can also see decisive steps in the 2017 budget for the whitening of the economy, which we are particularly pleased about. Let us not forget, ladies and gentlemen, that the introduction of the EKÁER system and the extension of the use of online cash registers in 2015 meant HUF 550 billion in additional revenue for the Hungarian economy. The government is quite correct in calculating that in 2017 it wants to further expand the use of online cash registers. This will allow another 10 billion HUF to flow into the state register. Let us say a few words, ladies and gentlemen, about the possibility of using EU funds, as they are also part of the development of the Hungarian economy and the improvement of the competitiveness of domestic businesses. The government intends to use 60% of the HUF 12 000 billion of development aid available between 2014 and 2020 specifically for economic development, job creation and the strengthening of the small and medium-sized enterprises sector. This is a very significant change compared to the previous development cycle prepared by socialist governments, since at that time aid to the SME sector did not reach 20 percent of the amount of resources that could be used for competitiveness. As we are committed to speeding up the spending of EU funds for the period 2014-2020, the Hungarian Government would very rightly like to make sure that most of the available development resources are tied down by 2018, so we are thinking and we support the government in ensuring that the use of resources for the 2014-020 cycle reaches 100 per cent compared to or in line with the current closed period. The Hungarian government, which we support, also makes a great deal of relief for the use of EU funds for the period 2017. For example, in the case of a group of beneficiaries other than large companies, the possibility of drawing an advance increases to 50 percent, and the maximum available is increased from HUF 300 million to HUF 1 billion. [[23.10]] This means, ladies and gentlemen, that Hungarian companies with a lack of capital, which have not yet been able to run the EU development tender because they simply did not have the resources to pre-financing or had a credit line that could have solved this, are now being removed by the government's action and have the opportunity to participate in this significant process. One of the great winners of next year's budget will be tourism. We are talking about a sector, ladies and gentlemen, which represents an opportunity to create jobs in the country in areas where this job creation programme could not be implemented with other activities such as industrial development. Tourism performance has increased significantly year after year. Last year was an incredibly outstanding success, as according to our latest data, the number of hotel guests was close to 600,000, which represents an increase of 11,3%, and the number of guest nights spent exceeded 1 million 345,000, which means that we could register an increase of 11,6 percent here. We have recorded an increase of more than 10 percent in accommodation revenues, namely 14 percent, so I say we say that tourism has been the greatest result since the 2008 crisis. Compared to this, this change has not stopped in 2016, and we hope that this increase will continue in 2017 on the basis of the budget for next year. Why do I think that, ladies and gentlemen? I think this because the amount of the tourist destination, which amounted to only HUF 2.88 billion in 2014, was nearly HUF 5 billion in 2015, and in 2016 it was HUF 5.37 billion, which will amount to HUF 600 million more next year, i.e. nearly HUF 6 billion for tourism marketing purposes. This is a wise idea on the part of the government, because it is not satisfied with the existing results, it is not satisfied with the fact that the best performing sector in the region is domestic tourism, it wisely increases marketing expenditures even at a time when otherwise the performance of tourism is skyrocketing. I think, ladies and gentlemen, that if this programme can continue to develop in this way, then with the expectation that the government decided in 2010 that tourism would achieve at least one third of the million new jobs that would be created in the 10 years, we are perfectly well on time. Mr President, Ladies and Gentlemen, I think that if the targets for the 2017 budget period are met - and the disciplined budget management that the Hungarian government has shown over the last six years suggests that there will be no change in 2017 - then the performance of the Hungarian economy can be 3.4 per cent or more as expected, while the budget deficit is around 2.4 per cent. In addition to a disciplined budget management, the Hungarian economy will continue to remain on a growth path, which will mean that new jobs will be created, that Hungarian businesses will be strengthened, that their competitiveness will be improved, and that overall Hungarian people will live even better, every family can take another step forward in its own prosperity. I think no one can expect more from a budget. I ask all my fellow Members to support the adoption of the budget law. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-05-11-166	Thank you very much, Congressman. Ms Ildikó Bangóné Borbély is coming from the MSZP Group. Here you go, Congresswoman.
u2016-05-11-167	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, Dear fellow Members, Mr Secretary of State has repeatedly mentioned today that we have not read the budget from the opposition, and we are not prepared for this material. Then I would like to read some of the sentences of two experts to the Secretary of State, since we are not prepared for the budget. One is Petschnig Mária Zita, the Financial Research Company. I would like to quote what you said about the 2017 budget. As regards the budget, he said: "The transparency of the budget presented in 2017 has deteriorated because it is based on rolled-up planning data. The budget is based on the plans for 2016 and the plan number for 2016 is based on the plans for the,, 15, so this budget is very far from the real processes. Previously, the Ministry of National Economy provided data on the expected processes, but now this has not happened. For this reason, the budget is not transparent. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I'd like to quote another expert. Gábor Oblath, senior research fellow at the Research Centre for Economics and Regional Science of the Hungarian Academy of Sciences, said the following about the budget. He stressed that it is not worth watching next year in itself, but that it is worth examining what medium-term ideas it fits into. In his view, if we look at the budget in this way, we cannot be satisfied at all, because the medium-term path outlined in the Convergence Programme is too optimistic and macroeconomic forecasts are unrealistic. In his opinion, this is only aggravated by the fact that the prognosis for macroeconomic growth in 2017 is not realistic. Then later he says:. The recent analyses and international comparative studies have clearly shown that Hungary's position in terms of the institutional environment is significantly worse than in terms of overall competitiveness. The most serious problems are seen by economic operators in legal certainty, protection of property rights and predictability of economic policy. This change is to attract additional capital and improve competitiveness, not primarily through the tax system. I think it's a pretty serious word from these two experts. But now let's look at the 2017 budget, see if we're trying to say something in this which proves that we may have read or read this budget. According to the draft budget, next year the government will spend less on the social field in terms of GDP and expenditure distribution than this year. Social assistance remains largely unchanged, but only a few benefits are increased, but to an unspeakably low degree, while the state will spend more on itself and its leaders next year. All this, in addition to the rise in the proportion of people living below the minimum, means that the government will give nothing of the growth that can be expected. Hungary is still underperforming in terms of social expenditure. Given the need to amend this year's budget now, it is pointless to discuss next spring's draft budget. We don't even know the 2015 accounts. In addition, it has to be said here that you have made a law that you can do anything at any time in a government decision, so the budget itself is almost unnecessary. One or two improvements in the social field, compared to today's figures, are still not making meaningful progress in order to reduce the number of people living in poverty in Hungary, so that people in need of social services, especially children, elderly people, can get access to social services, subsidies in an appropriate quality and quantity. The government still does not correct the crimes it has committed over six years, the anti-poorness, the training of scapegoats and the severe austerity of previous years. The next year's budget will also serve to further enrich the rich. Here's some data I'd like to give you. It is worth noting that the revenue side shows a number of increases in taxes, regardless of the objective of the tax reduction. For example, the government expects an increase in revenues of 25.5 billion for retail taxes, despite allegedly reducing the number and amount of levies. [[23.20]] It should also be pointed out that next year the financial transaction fee will be HUF 205.7 billion, which means an increase of 5.7 billion. Mr Secretary of State, you know very well that this is being paid by Hungarian residents. Ultimately, this is also paid by people, as is insurance tax or telecommunications tax. Compared to this, we found a line in the budget, which I hope will be explained by the Secretary of State, because a rather interesting number: 25 percent less revenue is expected from the toy tax next year. This year, HUF 41.2 billion was expected, and this line will be reduced to HUF 30.8 billion in 2017, although I would mention that there was a year when nearly HUF 100 billion of the toy tax was entered into the budget, when the government did not fill Andy Vajna's wallet, but had to pay this amount into the budget. Of course, the reason why Andy Vajna has been added to the wealthiest list of hundreds, where he is only in 16th place, but it would be good if he could be in the first ten, so let's give him some money quickly from the budget. Maybe she didn't get enough, and she couldn't buy enough diamond rings, and it's a shame a husband can't buy diamonds for his wife. Let us also point out that not only did we criticise this budget and economic experts, but it is also interesting to read a few lines from the SAO's report, Mr Secretary of State. The State Audit Office's report on the budget has never been so thin, and it has also been quite breathable. All of this shows that the body is becoming more and more a dungeon, which either does not do a thorough job or dares to put what it thinks on paper. It is interesting that according to the SAO, the element increasing transparency is the triple grouping of revenue and expenditure, operating, domestic accumulation, EU development revenue and expenditure. They just forget to add that it makes it harder to compare it to the amounts of previous years when there were spending, income, support columns. At the same time, it is worth highlighting the following from the report and I would like to read only one item, Mr Secretary of State. A general risk to the achievement of the budgetary objective is that 53,3% of expenditure appropriations are so-called "top-up appropriations', i.e. appropriations which can be exceeded without amending the law. Mr State Secretary, we have listened to the pro-government speeches that praised the budgets of the last few years, and there have even been speakers who have taken over half of their speaking time with the budgets of the previous governments, and have only spoken for a few minutes about the 2017 budget. I think that there is nothing to be happy about for the Hungarian families, neither the 2015 budget, nor the 2014 budget, nor the 2016 budget, nor the 2017 budget. They kept saying that next year's budget will reduce VAT, it will be good for pensioners, because now they will eat ten eggs every day, they will drink two kilos of chicken meat, five liters of milk, because we know that pensioners will eat and eat so much each day, and how much will the income of pensioners increase, how much will they save, and so will the Hungarian families. What they don't tell us is how much they're going to increase the price of gasoline. How is this going to happen, Mr. Secretary? How's that in the budget? We know very well that if the price of petrol, the sales tax on petrol, increases, it will be charged to consumer goods or transport costs. Moreover, economic experts say that to date they do not know how they will implement the calculation method in which they will try to increase excise duty if the world market price for petrol will decrease. Minister of State, if the support system for families in Hungary worked so well, which many people have said - Erik Bánki also said that there may not be another generous country in Europe that spends so much on families - then someone will explain to us why poverty in Hungary is not falling. Why can't we use numbers to support the spending on families on one side and reduce poverty? Because maybe they don't support families and layers that need it year after year, and they really need help. They never say that the 16 percent tax winners are 74 percent families without children. I haven't seen a statement yet in the family tax reduction, Mr. Secretary of State, showing by numbers how many families of three or more children there are in Hungary, who can use 99 thousand forints a month at 100%. It takes more than 600,000 forints to make a family to use 99 thousand forints a month for the three children. Mr. Secretary, how many families does that mean? We are talking about 4.2 million people living below the minimum living standards in Hungary. They're nowhere near this amount! We can say that perhaps the reason why this family support system is not working is because the distribution in Hungary is perverse, the support of the rich is very high, and the poorer ones are not at all, or to a small extent. That should change. We've been saying for years that we should think about this. When they say how many thousand forints the minimum wage has risen, they do not say that it has not risen as much as it should, which the worker takes home in his pocket. What we pay to the state, the additional costs, of course, have increased greatly, but what the employee receives has not increased so much. The employee doesn't take home as much as he should. Tomorrow, I will discuss in detail the KSH data that will support why the family support system, which has been operating in Hungary for years, is distorted and perverse. Perhaps only one figure: during the Socialist Party's governance, the minimum wage was tax-free. You started your administration by imposing a 16-percent tax on the smallest earners. It would be nice if you thought about it after all these years. I will continue tomorrow with data, Mr. Secretary, only working from the KSH, and I hope I can convince you of some data. One more sentence for my fellow Member, Erik Bánki. I'm afraid of tourism. In recent years, it has not been noticed that this is a success sector. After the downfall of the Trafiks, the land, the casinos, there's another sector that should be stolen very quickly, because there's been a lot of revenue in the last few years. Don't do it, Congressman. Don't do it! At least leave one sector alone and let it work. I have noted one sentence while I'm alive, Your Honour. When the casino bill, I don't know, was modified for the last time, he said in his speech that we had cleared the market first. That's what happened because he became a two-player. Don't do this to tourism. Let at least one sector in Hungary, which could still be operational, because what they touch will be destroyed! Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2016-05-11-168	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. State Secretary Péter Benő Banai asked for the floor on behalf of the government. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2016-05-11-169	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, I think it is natural that the economic policy ideas of the opposition parties differ from those of the ruling parties, and this has also been shown in the comments that have been made so far, and I think that this is right. All the figures I have quoted, which anyone can look at on the websites of international organisations and on the basis of which the 2017 budget was made, however, show that economic policy is going in the right direction. In addition to the fact that there is a consensus that next year the Hungarian economy may grow around 3 percent, in addition to the fact that there is no debate in the extent of the reduction in public debt, in the substantial level of the general government deficit below 3 percent, in the expansion of employment or in the maximum surplus of the current account, it is worth talking about what this budget means for families, as Mrs Bangóné said. It is also worth talking about how clearly all the changes that are emerging from the 2017 budget bill have been made to us, how transparent and transparent this budget is. [[23.30]] In the context of the expert comments referred to by the Member, I would like to say that the 2017 budget bill was based on expected expenditure and revenue for 2016. It is understandable that in the parliamentary debate, we compare the original figures for 2016 and the fact numbers.17, but in our prognosis, both in terms of the macro path and in terms of budget revenue and expenditure, the Honourable Parliament can see an updated line of figures for 2016. Please look at the 2016 macroeconomic projections, compare them with the projections made a year ago: you will see the differences. Like inflation. In terms of 0.4 percent inflation, the significance of which, if I may, I will draw attention to later. It is true that before 2010, there were forecasts of the expected expenditure and revenue of the budget that the broad public could learn. The problem is, unfortunately, these realities had nothing to do with them. The government reports details of the past in detail. On these treasury websites, these figures can be checked over a decade, and provide information on the expected processes to the National Assembly, information to the Board of Budgets and information to international organisations. This is not only from the budgetary material, because if you look around the 1300th page of the proposal submitted, you will see a longer outlook by 2020, but also from the Convergence Programme, which will also outline the expected macroeconomic and public finances by 2020. As to the idea of how lasting this Hungarian growth is, again, if there is any doubt in the number of government, I would ask you to look at the numbers of international organisations. The series of figures of the European Commission with which we have had serious economic policy debates. The series of numbers of the IMF with which we also had serious disputes. Or look at the OECD sequences. They will see that the economic policy that has been strongly criticised by these organisations leaves recognition in the latest documents. Secretary General Gurria, the Secretary-General of the OECD gave a long interview last Friday on the Hungarian economic processes. I think that if he acknowledges the results he has achieved so far, then these factual results must also be recognised by us. Undoubtedly, we still have a number of tasks ahead of us. I'll always say that myself. I'll tell you about the budget. But I think that if we look at the 2017 expenditure and budget revenue from this fund, the economic policy, we can be confident that this budget will be lasting and stable. Sustainability and stability, I think, are proof of the 2016 budget so far. It has been said that the balance of the central level of public finances has been the best balance in the last 15 years. And the amendment to the 2016 Budget Act before you gives you the opportunity to carry out additional expenditure without prejudice to the 2% level of the general government deficit and the reduction in government debt. On the basis of this stability, the woman representing the specific figures for 2017 has highlighted areas where she believes that a tax increase will be detected, if I understand correctly, in the words of the Member. I think it is appropriate for tax measures to look at the tax changes in 2017 before the Honourable Parliament. There you will not find representative woman tax-enhancing measures in the field of these retail levies or financial transaction fees. Why is it that we're still counting on more revenue? Because, thanks to government measures, family home-building benefits, the real income of the population increases year by year, real estate traffic is significant. Real estate's spinning. As a result, tax revenues are also increasing. The point of economic policy is that it is possible to increase the revenue of the state by not touching the individual taxes. I would also like to point out to you, Congresswoman, the changes that have taken place in the area of SAYA. In 2016, there will be a 1 percentage point reduction. However, due to the increase in the number of employees and the increase in gross wages and real wages, it is not expected that income will decrease. Individuals pay less, but overall, at the level of public finances, there will be no reduction, I repeat. With the increase in the financial transaction fee, I see that Mr Dániel Z. Kárpát is certainly wrong when he talks about the desiccation of the economy. After all, together with the expansion of the economy, we are also looking at the expansion of financial transactions and lending, and as a result we are also looking at an increase in revenues from the financial transaction levy. The relevant law clarifies who is liable to pay the levy and that financial institution. We also know that in the case of cash withdrawals, citizens do not have to expect any financial transaction fees up to HUF 150,000. So I think that a regulation has been put in place that seeks to distribute the burden fairly and proportionately. It's a toy company. There are types of taxes where public offerings can reduce the tax to be paid. This is also the case with the toy tax, as is the case with corporate tax, where the tax can be reduced for sports, artistic and cultural offerings. Finally, it is a question of appropriations opened from above. Yes, Mrs President, you are right that the bill, just like in recent years, ensures that expenditure can be carried out, in a number of appropriations, on an open and transparent basis. These are typically normative expenditures such as family allowances, maternity allowance, where the amount of care is fixed, but estimates of the exact number of users can only be made. However, these estimates have been quite well achieved, and this is why the State Audit Office and the Fiscal Council say that the figures are well-founded. The system of appropriations opened from above therefore ensures that all beneficiaries receive their funding, such as EU grants, which are also paid from top-up appropriations, reach the beneficiaries fully and, at the same time, in the planning of the budget, that expenditure is best planned in these top-up appropriations. I think this has been confirmed by the State Audit Office and the Fiscal Council. Finally, I think that the macroeconomic framework, the classification of the draft budget as sound by organisations independent of government, gives families a realistic chance to benefit from this budget. Congresswoman asked why families would be pleased. The families would be pleased, and I hope that they will be pleased if the Honourable Parliament accepts the government's proposals that the VAT rate for a significant number of basic foods will be reduced. They will be pleased that the housing discount will be available for an increasing amount in 2017, not only in the case of the construction, purchase of new apartments, but also in the case of the purchase of used apartments. And I trust that families will also be pleased that the number of people employed will increase and that the proportion of people living in poverty will decrease. In this hope, I would like to see, in addition to the problems and tasks ahead of us in the budget referred to by the Member and the Members, solutions and support for the budget proposal. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]] [[23.40]]
u2016-05-11-170	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. From the Fidesz Group, Mr János Pócs is next. Here you go, Congressman.
u2016-05-11-171	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, I am in a bit of a difficult situation, not because we are negotiating the budget for more than 16 hours, but because I have to speak after a socialist Member on the budget. Ladies and gentlemen, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and If the current government had done nothing else after 2010, it would have gone further on the path started by the socialists, thousands of billions of forints would be missing from the pockets of the Hungarian people and thousands of billions more in the pockets of the Hungarian state. [[Ildikó Bangóné Borbély: See if Matolcsy could have had less!]] Ladies and gentlemen, After the 16-hour debate, I was left with some important, offensive and unfounded words from opposition representatives. The budget was affected by words like railroad, pervert, sports hall, public employment, plumbing, depression. But perhaps those words also characterize the spirit of opposition representatives. [[Defiance in the ranks of Fidesz.]] In addition to what I believe we cannot leave without saying, when opposition representatives have repeatedly said that the budget that we have negotiated today and that we are going to negotiate tomorrow is about squandering hundreds of billions of forints. Ladies and honourable Members of the opposition, ladies and gentlemen, I'd like to ask you to go out with the people. [[Ildikó Bangóné Borbély: We do!]] Tell me what you consider to be squandering. Is it the thousands of billions of forints that are considered to be the lowest value in Europe? Tell those people who take thousands of billions more forints home because of their szya, to the Hungarian families, that you see this as a waste of hundreds of billions of forints. The next budget year will be the family tax relief of Hungarians and spouses raising children. Tell them that you see this squandering as hundreds of millions of forints. But tell healthcare workers who will receive special support in 2017 that you think this has squandered billions of forints. Or for families whose basic foods do, milk, eggs, and poultrymeat, along with pork, have reduced their VAT, leaving more money in people's pockets, you see this as being squandered by hundreds of millions. As is your opinion of the restaurant service. The family tax relief for two children will continue to grow in the following year. We are talking about the tax relief of first-married people, and we are talking about the fact that every family in Hungary must provide for the possibility of a new apartment or their own house. VAT is reduced from 27 per cent to 5 per cent in the construction sector and families receive tens of millions of forints in order to have a separate house and a separate apartment in Hungary. The salary of teachers will increase significantly. In higher education, 10 percent, then 5 percent, and again 5 percent. For professional law enforcement and defence workers, we are talking about a 50% wage increase. We are talking about a significant additional resource in the health and social sphere. If you see this as a waste of hundreds of billions of forints, I would like to ask you, with respect, to go out, tell people that you consider this unnecessary, that you think it is squandered, and you think that the way out is what you did when you took away a month's salary from pensioners, teachers and everyone. Yes, ladies and gentlemen, in the hope that the Hungarian economy will grow, the Hungarian economy will be strengthened, we have been able to repay the IMF loan, the European Union loans, and public debt will be reduced. In this spirit and in their possession, we can say that 2017 will be about tax reductions and home creation. I propose to my fellow Members, to my fellow opposition Members, that those who wanted to provide the legislative package with all the other indications already mentioned, that they should deepen in the previous budget proposals, say seven or eight years ago, to study the planned measures and compare the budget budget budget for the following year with them. With the recovery of Hungary, which was on the brink of ruin in 2010, economic strength and growth have now succeeded in reducing the burden on families and businesses and boosting consumption. For several years, the budget has not been about debt, crisis cuts, clumsy budgets, but about falling burdens, construction, well-designed, predictable budgets. Of course, we know that the liberal press can't go without saying that next year it's not about who gets harder, who gets less, but about who gets less and who gets easier. It will be easier for Hungarian families, my fellow Members, the year 2017. True, against your expectations, not for banks, not for multinationals, not for illegal immigrants. [[Ildikó Bangóné Borbély: Only for Matolcsy!]] No matter how desperate this may be for you here in the opposition benches. [[Dr. István Józsa: How do you know?]] The preferences for families have already been mentioned by the speakers before me, and I would like to mention the measures that are in the food sector and are a relief and security for the Hungarian people. In 2017, Hungarian families will be able to put healthy agricultural products on the table cheaper than before, as the price of poultry meat and fresh milk will also decrease by 5 percent after reducing the VAT on pig meat. Such a low VAT rate of 5% under previous socialist governments was not in any food area. However, the current economic stability allows it to help the poultry and dairy sectors by sacrificing HUF 35 billion of tax revenue, making the livelihood of families easier, and this time by boosting demand. Ladies and gentlemen, The measures taken to date to reduce VAT may also contribute to the whitening of the sectors concerned. This will hopefully also be seen in the case of measures that will enter into force in 2017. VAT cuts will make it easier for companies to follow the law, so to speak, to be honest. This will complement the measures taken to better detect VAT fraud. Further expansion of the EKÁER system, which was already HUF 550 billion in additional revenue, which the government can return to people through various measures. The effective work of the NAV will increase the safety of honest businesses. The safety of food on the table, as well as the safety of families, will be provided by the Nebih. The aim is to ensure that Hungarian food of high quality is placed on the table of as many families as possible. To this end, the budgetary resources provided in 2017 provide the opportunity to carry out the same level of official work as before. From the point of view of the safety of Hungarian consumers, it is important that we gradually exclude from our country low quality foods, sometimes counterfeit, and we can ensure that small producers are increasingly sold on local markets, in the cafeteria and in public catering. Hopefully, small farmers will have every opportunity to do so, and the government wants to spend more than ever on eating children. The Nébih's official work and certification programme based on budgetary resources will certainly allow for steps to be taken in 2017 that will guarantee the establishment of a secure food chain on the table of all Hungarian families with regard to safe food access. [[23.50]] The most important thing in the budget is the safety, livelihood and health of Hungarian people. These things are guaranteed by the next year's budget, which I ask my fellow Members with respect for their support. Thank you, Mr. President. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-05-11-172	Thank you very much, Congressman. Mr László György Lukács is next from the Jobbik Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2016-05-11-173	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen of the State Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, If you are interested in health care, you usually look for the answer or are looking for the lines to determine if there will be enough money for what you want to provide for health care in a year or so. In other words, many do not even think about whether there will be enough money for the bureaucracy or the background institution needed to provide care, whether there will be enough money for the institutions needed to provide the patients, and whether there will be enough money for the human resources and the means, so that all that, if you like, the wearer part and the so-called daily lubricant for health care, will be enough money for the budget. Also, the search eye looks at whether there will be any substantial change in health expenditure, typically in public expenditure, as the budget serves this purpose. But perhaps in order to understand why it is important that we look for these things, we also need to understand what is going on in health care at all. Perhaps it is evident that the rapid development, technological development of the past decades, the shift in age, people's age, attention to personal health care and the increase in demands have resulted in a tremendous increase in costs in health care. If we look at it in relation to and in terms of other sectors, we see a straight trend and we can safely say that if this trend continues, health will be the area in the sector and public expenditure that will have the highest cost requirements and a continuous, evenly increasing trend. And, of course, it should also be added that it is true for health care that more and more money spent will not result in ever greater health, more and more functioning health care, because somewhere this figure will break, and there is no way that the money poured into it without bottoms will result in a much better or bottomless health care. But when we look at the budget figures, we have to look at two relationships: one is the regional aspect, that is Hungary and the like, and here I say specifically the regions, because, although we have heard today, that with Greece, Portugal, Spain, but we can also add Luxembourg, so we get a more interesting picture compared to countries, but in our own area, compared to the Czech Republic, Slovakia, Romania, countries with a similar social background and a similar historical background have to be seen, but we have to look at how we stand in the line of years, that is, what health spending shows, the range of public expenditure in Hungary. If we take it a little wide, so we look at the neighbouring countries and, as I said, we look at the neighbours, then we see that the Hungarian health system has suffered a great deal, but also all the countries in Central and Eastern Europe have suffered the years after the changes in the system, and if we look at the figures of expenditure in proportion to the national total product, we have seen, from the 1990's onwards, a huge wave of public expenditure, which started up and down, depending on the political will that has affected how much we spend on health care. In any case, we are there now, and we have been there for the past time, and this is not about bias, but about the report of the good state, which can still be based on the state's public expenditure on health as a percentage of GDP, in which, if we see the figures clearly, we can see that until 2010-2013, there was a decrease from 5.6 per cent to 4.7 per cent, and then there was a rise, if not a large, but a smaller increase, which now froze the country at around 5 per cent of GDP. If we look at the neighbouring countries, we see them as a poet, but unfortunately we see countries that translate much more from public spending on health. This is how the Czech Republic or Slovakia became, for example, the Czech Republic or Slovakia, who, if you will, are standing next to it, I think we have been preceded. Of course, these data are derived from the OECD's Health at Glance 2015 summary or statement, so an international organisation has measured these data here. What can be identified as a further problem, and this is perhaps an increased problem in Hungary, that not only the state spends on health care, but also individuals spend on it, but their spending is relatively high compared to the neighbouring countries, among which the spending of drugs comes out of their own pockets, so citizens spend 2.2 percent of GDP on it. On the other hand, the evolution of the E Fund is indeed true and it can be said that nominal growth in the E Fund's overall amount is, for example, an actable increase and an increase has continued. Of course, this includes the number of invalidity benefits and rehabilitation benefits in 2013, which went directly to 300 billion in this budget line. So there is essentially a slight distortion, but we have been able to show GDP-to-GDP growth in a very solid way. The problem is therefore also in funding for the future, and here I would like to draw the attention of the Secretary of State to one thing: perhaps this is suitable for consideration or for debate, that the composition of the Hungarian public health expenditure has increased steadily, and the tax-funded part has increased steadily, while the part of the contribution financed was in a decreasing proportion, due to the reductions in contributions. However, in view of the objective of reducing contributions, the government's aim was to encourage employment and to create jobs, if we look at contributions reductions and even increases in a longer figure, there is no interrelationship in employment, at least I have such a diasor. So, probably the idea of increasing job creation by reducing contributions, or creating more jobs, is not true, but on the health register, I see that it is hitting a gap that means an opening pair of scissors, which means that a much greater excess of funding from the tax should then be allocated to health care. [[Dr. István Hiller, vice-president of the Parliament, takes the chair.]] Another huge problem with the financing problem is that nearly 4 percent of Hungary's own pockets, the so-called out of pocket spending, are the largest in developed countries after Mexico, Switzerland and Korea. So it is clear from the picture that there is a place to come up, a place to improve, and a place to spend. And where we stand, it is safe to say, as a critical remark, that there is still no stable strategy for resource creation in the health care sector, with public health spending being the last percentage of public finances in all neighbouring countries, we are spending 10 percent on public health, and this does not seem to be in line with the will of the people, because in the population survey, over 80 percent of those who would spend even more money on health care. For example, education is at 50 percent. But let's just dive in the details, and the details are as follows, and I don't want to repeat the figures that we're talking about a surplus of HUF 167 billion, but we really have to acknowledge the surplus that health now receives, if you like, in a broader view. No one has disputed this, and I see the problem simply in this, and the criticism of the opposition is in this way that, in our view, the country's ability to carry on the load, the will of the people, had foreseen much earlier that such an increase should have been achieved. I think it wasn't necessary to wait seven years. Of course, it is possible to argue in the economic policy conservative approach or in the attitude to stability, but the attitude of the people would have been to invest in this sooner or more or more. What stands out, perhaps, is the growth within the curative-preventive cash register, for benefits in kind, the so-called healing-meal. In-case growth. Here the Jobbik Movement for Hungary is, by the way, trying to put a realistic modification package on the table, which I think will offset the fact that within the curative-preventive cash register, we will offset the overweight of the combined professional supply and, for example, catch up with dental care, such as basic care or rescue. After all, we have seen that compared to the 2014 budget, where the combined specialised care was 66 per cent compared to its ratio, it has now gone up to 71 per cent, so, if you will, it is a combined specialised care, so it is a difficult medical treatment. We work with a cash register, so it's certainly appropriate to upgrade the cash register in the breaker, I'll tell you that it's either a doctor's or a patron's or a dental register. We have, by the way, been living with modifiers, fully in order to rebalance this balance and actually to achieve a proportionate distribution within this. [[0.00]] What we cannot find and what is missing: we have touched on it, although Mihály Varga talked about a career model in health care, but we do know that this is not going to be a career model, but we are talking about wage development, if wage development, then maybe we have another line, and it is not yet being stepped up, so it is not specifically named how much it will be, and we accept that there are different negotiations on this. However, I-II. the pace of the previous year's budgets, HUF 10 billion - we can't find this now, even though it is a III. I really needed a beat. The other question is, what happened to the tobacco special tax? This was about HUF 11.5 billion, now half a billion in total, so there is HUF 500 million in total. It is also interesting, perhaps, where it has gone, or where it has been transferred, because it is specifically a sectoral special tax to compensate for the damage caused by health care, and I think that a dangerous industry - and it should be received here, and remember that, as the e-cigi-lobby has not spoken of us, and not the cigarette lobby has spoken of us, here is the eloquent proof that the cigarette lobby does not speak of us - this tax, this special tax, should indeed be paid, and should be charged with additional income, precisely so that it can take an even greater share of funding in the health register. So the question is, where is this tax? The second is that we do not see clearly where the hospital debt will be. In the last year's cash register, we were counting hospital debts, if I remember correctly. It is also worth setting up a separate line now, so to speak, because the institutions are struggling with a debt of $40 billion, which should be clarified in any case. Of course, this should also be prevented from being re-produced, but I would like to note here that, in the case of a combined specialised supply, the funding surplus may, for example, point in the direction of preventing this accumulation. So this should be clarified or knocked out at the same time. The other is a very pitiful, but important question for people: the question of patical duty. It has been planned for a very long time in the field of patio, and one of the planning plans was that they would receive additional resources - we are not talking about a large amount of money, we are talking about 1-2 billion - but this does not appear either, which assumes that by 2017, the system of patical on-calls will not be clarified. This is a question of how the government would offset the so-called losses during the opening hours, with a financing fee, i.e. a state grant to the on-call pharmacy. It doesn't appear, so this one here has given a parentheses to see if there's going to be a pacical change at all. As regards how much we could spend, one of the big problems is that when we talk about wages and wage increases, we still don't know how many health professionals or, for example, how many doctors Hungary has, because it doesn't have a credible HR record in Hungary. I asked myself on a written question whether we knew how many people are actually working actively, and not those who are otherwise registered to a hospital in different jobs and relationships, and not based on a stamp number, and not based on a register, but based on actual HR records, so how many of the main active workers we have, how many active workers we have. Without such an HR record, we may not even know how much wages should be consolidated or raised. On the other hand, it is also very important to see that - the SAO also stated - there is a very serious wage tension. According to the comments, it would probably be a HUF 150 billion to start a catch-up. As far as I'm concerned, 150 billion forints will not fit this year or 2017 for wage development. I was talking about institutional debts, so now allow me to draw your attention to some of the amendments that I think are particularly important here. This is the support of non-governmental organisations in the field of health, which, although on an ongoing basis, is not enough. For example, we could mention the Hungarian Institute of Paediatriconcology, the National Association of Cancer Patients, the Hungarian Anti-Crab League, all of which are worth sacrificing extra budgetary resources, and not big money - we are talking about 20 or 50 million forints - because they carry out complementary activities within the Hungarian health care system, which in many cases the state itself cannot carry out. Also, allow one more line called the Mályvavirág Foundation, which could carry out a particularly important preventive activity if the amendment was acceptable. But we have thought of a raised wage increase or a consolidation of hospital debt, and even though it doesn't belong to it, but to amend tax laws, I had an earlier amendment, a bill to extend the local business tax and its exemption so that all persons working in the basic care can use it as a business. This was swept down by the Economic Commission - and this was a subtle reference - by waiting for the submission of current tax laws. With all due respect, this part is not included in the current tax laws either, so I dared to act as otherwise revealed by György Rubovszky, saying that he would even do what he had to do outlawly, and I also submitted it as an over-extensive amendment. They are encouraged to make use of this amendment or to support it where appropriate. I believe that this is not only a question of fairness but also a question of equality, and no matter how technical the detail is, it must be resolved. Overall, with regard to the health budget section, there is a reason for the profession to be a little happy, perhaps it makes the picture worse that it now had to wait six and a half, seven years - we do not know what took so long, obviously there is an explanation for this. I believe that health care must, however, be expected to have much more or more money in the coming years, much more money in its proportions, and that this should be taken into account by decision-makers. Thank you very much.
u2016-05-11-174	Thank you very much. Welcome. It would take two minutes, but before that, on behalf of the government, Secretary of State Péter Benő Banai asked for the floor. Here.
u2016-05-11-175	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I will try to respond very briefly to a number of specific questions, to raise what Member László Lukács has just done. First of all, health expenditure: we can say again that next year's budget includes nearly HUF 167 billion in extra expenditure, that it is a matter of many or few points of view. There is no doubt that we can look at Hungarian health expenditure from the Luxembourg perspective, and I mentioned the Mediterranean countries because the economic situation of these countries was comparable and comparable to that of Hungary in 2010, when the government started its governance. If we look at the countries in the region, the Member is right about the fact that there is a country with a higher proportion of public expenditure on the proportion of GDP, but, for example, it is smaller in Poland, and let us not forget that these three countries, the V3 countries, have 40-50 percent of public debt and, as a result, they can also spend less on public debt financing. As regards specific issues, it is necessary to strengthen the provision of basic care by general practitioners. It is recalled that in 2015 the budget included HUF 10 billion plus, the budget for 2016 also includes HUF 10 billion plus, and in 2017 beyond the fact that these increases are maintained by the budget proposal, there is an additional HUF 4.5 billion for the development of basic supply and public health. With regard to the tobacco special tax, the government had a proposal, the Parliament passed a law, and then the European Commission attacked it, if you will, so because of the discussions with the Commission and the action of the European Commission, the Member cannot find the amount in the Health Insurance Fund that we had previously designed from a tobacco special tax. At the same time, I would like to say that, thank God, this loss of income can be replaced by budgetary resources by the government, so that the health expenditure that we have included in this year's budget or that is included in the 2017 budget proposal is not damaged. [[0.10]] As far as hospital debt is concerned, the key thing is to prevent debt from being re-produced. This requires not only additional budgetary resources, but also structural changes. I am thinking, for example, of the Chancellor's system, which was already discussed on the special health debate day. I therefore think that, together, organisational, governance, financing changes and additional budgetary resources can result in institutions not being in debt. I can also say that public debt has been declining in recent years, and we see progress in many areas of financial management. I hope that this progress will also be very significant for health institutions in 2017, while the current level of debt is also lower than it was a year ago, for example. And finally, we know the number of people working in health care, of course, because as it is a public institution, the amount of wages will be paid through the Hungarian Treasury, and I think that all those working in health care, nurses and doctors in the 2017 budget will encounter a substantial wage increase. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-05-11-176	Thank you very much. There are two-minute speeches coming up. Congressman Erik Bánki, Fidesz. Here you go.
u2016-05-11-177	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Ildikó Bangóné Borbély asked me yesterday how Hungarian families live, yet I answer him today. [[Ildikó Bangóné Borbély: How nice!]] Well, Congresswoman, I don't know what statistics you're reading. [[Ildikó Bangóné Borbély: Much!]] I can tell you honestly that I listened to your words with great interest, but I couldn't find the truth behind it. I'll tell you the specific data on the situation of the Hungarian families, okay? [[Bangóné Borbély Ildikó: Clean it up!]] For a family with two children, where there is one earner, I do not say the average, for a gross wage of HUF 105 thousand, which was only HUF 79 580 in 2010, in 2015 the net income of these families increased by HUF 88 thousand, in 2016, by HUF 94 800, i.e. only from 2015 to 16 and by HUF 72 thousand per year. In the case of 235 thousand HUF, which was the average wage in 2015, this savings, i.e. from 2015 to 16 HUF 88 thousand in net terms. In the family with two children, where there are two earners, let's take this as an average example in Hungary [[Bangóné Borbély Ildikó: The two search engines? No way!]] In the case of the lowest earners, where we are talking about a gross wage of HUF 105,000, we have saved HUF 85 000 annually, and in the average income, and in the gross income of HUF 235 thousand, HUF 116 400, Congresswoman, the income remaining in the family increased by HUF 9700 per month. And it's purely income, then we haven't talked about how much tax cuts, family tax relief schemes and other extra subsidies, such as access to housing, have brought in in recent years. So I think there's plenty to be proud of. Let's see what you've done to the Hungarian families. The tax relief of housing loans was abolished, 120,000 forints were taken from the families. The lowest VAT rate was first raised from 12 to 15 percent [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] And then from 15 to 20 percent, and I could go on with the constant increase in the price of electricity, the increase in gas prices, which constantly hit families. That's the difference. Excuse me, Mr. President, excuse me, I have to quote Miklós Zsolnay's favourite saying, "What's the difference between a theologian and a geologist?" Sky and earth. Ma'am, I'm sorry, ma'am. I'm sorry, ma'am. That's the difference between your government and our government. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties. Ildikó Bangóné Borbély: It was very funny!]]
u2016-05-11-178	We are very happy to hear the most beautiful of Zsolnay's sayings at 0:00 to 13 minutes. So now Ildikó Bangóné Borbély will have the floor for two minutes, MSZP. Here you go.
u2016-05-11-179	At least this issue is now clear, my honourable fellow Member, just as the market before Andy Vajna, as you have cleaned it up. By the way, the average income in Hajdú-Bihar county is less than 160 thousand forints, just to clarify that the two hundred and eleven thousand forints are not uniform in Hungary. I do not know if my fellow Member knows that the COS programme now has victims, and it has some pretty tough victims, because they simply made the laws unprepared, they first announced them, and then they made the laws afterwards, and then they changed them. We can now read from the news that the number of victims will be up to a thousand, who the government may even bankrupt, for example, because of the common undivided property. In VAT, let us talk about the constant mention of the importance of a healthy diet for the Fidesz government. Then why did we reduce the VAT on pork in the first place? Why not the VAT on healthier meats, and where are the stuffing products, of which Hungarians consume a lot? I'm sure Secretary István Nagy will answer because I can see him shaking his hand. It could have been done sooner because we have always said that increasing consumption is primarily a reduction in VAT on basic foods. When are you going to cancel the nursery care fee you introduced? And when are we gonna get people who don't get married, let's say, tax breaks? Today, 42 percent of born children are born from partnerships, and you are unwilling to acknowledge this form of partnership in Hungary. For people who don't want to get married, you've decided not to give tax breaks to people who get married. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] Why must the Fidesz-KDNP government distinguish between family and family? Thank you, Mr. President.
u2016-05-11-180	We will go back to the speeches that have been announced. Congressman Richard Hörcsik, Fidesz. Here you go.
u2016-05-11-181	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, In this late hour, I would like to look at the central budget for 2017 before us very briefly from a particular point of view, from the point of view of the use of Hungary's EU resources. My fellow Members obviously remember that a few weeks ago, we held a debate on the use of resources in the EU budget cycle 2007-2013 in the walls of this House not so long ago. Well, it was said several times on the debate day that Hungary has also made history that in the last cycle EU funds have been called down by 100%, i.e. HUF 8600 billion of EU development funds have been paid, and if I add the Hungarian supplement to this, it has totalled HUF 9223 billion. Ladies and gentlemen, In order to achieve the same success in the next seven-year cycle, so that no single cent should roll back to Brussels, it is important that every year, so that the 2017 year ahead of us, the country has a budget that will ensure, in other words, help draw EU funds. Ladies and gentlemen, Therefore, looking forward to 2017, in the context of the EU relationship, it is important to mention that next year only the resources of the 2014-2020 budget will be available. So we have a total of HUF 12,000 billion of EU funds from a development period up to 2020. When drawing funds smoothly, I believe that three important aspects must be taken into account. 1. A scheduled, rapid drawdown to ensure that there is no disproportionate amount of payments for the last closing years of development; 2. to promote a competitive economic structure; 3. to reduce regional development differences. As far as the first aspect is concerned, so the scheduled call for funds, I say that the budget contains an extremely ambitious planning. Over 50 percent higher than this year, for example under the title of EU development. The Cohesion Policy programmes stand out among the items in the amount of HUF 1882 billion. Let's look at rural development. The budget envisages HUF 206 billion and direct area payments represent HUF 400 billion for farmers. The rate of the domestic budget contribution or contribution, if we look at it in the EU budget, is similar to that of previous years, i.e. total HUF 317 billion. [[0.20]] Ladies and gentlemen, Overall, the total amount of EU funding programmes amounts to more than HUF 2100 billion in 2017. The smooth use of EU funds to this extent is conditional on adding nearly HUF 700 billion to the revenues from the European Union, i.e. more than 2 per cent of GDP, if I calculate correctly. So this also means, ladies and gentlemen, that after the current 2016 year, when the amount of EU funds will be reduced due to the natural cyclicality of drawing on EU transfers, there will be significant resources available next year, so to speak, to dynamicise the growth rate of our country. I see, ladies and gentlemen, that, in addition to these ambitious goals, the government is not, quite rightly, abandoning disciplined fiscal policy, since there are still a number of 3 percent, below the Maastricht criterion, the deficit is expected, and the public debt-to-GDP ratio is shrinking to 70 percent. This trend is not a one-off trend, but since 2011, if we look at it, it is constantly and predictablely representative of the budget, reflecting the correctness of the economic policy chosen. By the way, ladies and gentlemen, I note that these results are recognised by the European Commission itself. In particular, through the reports and recommendations issued in the context of the European Semester, as last analysed at our committee meeting. In the case of the European Semester, a procedure should be considered where Member States' budgetary and economic policies are coordinated and opinions of the European Commission within an established agenda. Now it is enough to mention only the so-called country report, which, as has already been mentioned before, has been acknowledged by the European Commission, including the total outflow of the retail foreign exchange loan pool, and it has found that the unemployment rate has decreased in parallel with increasing employment and that long-term unemployment rates have also decreased. Ladies and gentlemen, The other important aspect of drawing Union funds does not concern the extent of consumption, but primarily the way in which it is drawn up. How do resources serve economic competitiveness? How do resources help to reduce regional disparities? Just last week's debate, as I have just mentioned, has shown that, unfortunately, in the period 2007-2013, the competitiveness criterion has left much to be desired. Next year, EU funds and related national co-financing will therefore contribute, for example, in a targeted and significant way, as has been said by the Secretary of State, to the development of health, education and employment, but also to the achievement of transport, environmental protection and territorial and rural development objectives. Ladies and gentlemen, In addition, the efficiency of the use of resources in this budget will be supported by the fact that the so-called repayable subsidies, which can provide funding through multiple placements and thus in the longer term, will be launched at a significantly higher rate than in the previous financial period, in order to ensure the continued development of stronger companies in the future. Also in the budget, the efficiency of the use is supported by a significant increase in the rate and maximum value of the advance paid to the Union programmes. I think it's very important. For example, in the case of a group of beneficiaries other than large companies, the rate of the advance may reach up to 50 per cent of a given project, while the ceiling for the advance is up to HUF 1 billion, which I also believe is a major help for the successful Hungarian SME sector. Ladies and gentlemen, So what we see is that the budget bill before us outlines an overall well-founded development path and ensures a significant proportion of EU funds by the middle of the cycle, so that we can use it. I believe that this is of paramount importance for Hungary's competitiveness and economic growth. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of Fidesz.]]
u2016-05-11-182	Thank you very much. Congressman Árpád Velez, MSZP. Here you go.
u2016-05-11-183	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Once again, the Fidesz majority expects opposition representatives to vote in favour of a Bianko budget. Once again, the government decides to pay people, to operate institutions, to levy taxes and to collect taxes, that it has no idea what will happen and how it will turn out, say, half a year or three quarters of a year from now. Maximum forecasts of changes in the domestic and world economy are available, which are only plans or estimates. At the moment, no one knows exactly how, for example, the market price of oil or domestic economic production will change, whether there will still be frost, hail, flooding, drought in Hungary, or how VAT revenues will develop, or where and what new war will break out, where there will be earthquakes or floods. Once again, the country will have a budget that will not thank you for the numbers that are actually being passed. You guys are gonna take care of this the farthest you can. The legitimacy of next year's budget is also at odds, if we look at the budget law a little bit more, then it is obvious that the facts are only available from 2015. From 2016 you can see only plans with good hopes, just as from the 2017 figures. If we add that you, pro-government representatives, this year adopted the proposal of János Lázár to make any funds with a simple government decision, that, unfortunately, already, in the future, without questioning Parliament, you can generate funds at any time in a less transparent way than ever before from the budget. If we are aware of these facts, it can be said that next year's budget is also a fictitious budget. If we do not know the facts, only the plans and the plans can be shaped at our convenience, then we can only talk about fictitious things. It is incomprehensible that this great government rush is taking place around the adoption of next year's budget. We know it's not a unique example, it's not the first time, it's not the second time, it's months, it's years earlier than it should be. There is only one reasonable explanation for this haste, namely that they want to adopt an election budget, and they are already starting to cataphorunge people, companies, businesses or institutions that are kind to you. We have now come to the point that all this is happening without shawls. By studying next year's budget ahead of us, we can say that the government is not, in substance, approaching the real zero budget, either in terms of the balance of payments or in terms of profit or even in terms of the higher deficit target identified. This also confirms that next year's budget is full of tricks that have only one task to hide the truth. Such a transparent trick is the allocation of government expenditure to operating and stockpiling costs. In addition, for some reason it was decided to set operating costs to zero until such requirements were imposed on accumulation costs. If the calculations are correct, next year there will be a deficit of 2.4 percent, i.e. HUF 1166 billion, which is higher than what would have been planned for this year or earlier in 2017. For example, by 2016, the plan was originally a deficit of 770 billion, which in the meantime increased to 1000 billion. Because of changes like this, you can't take your spring-summer budget seriously. By raising the budget deficit to 2.4 percent, the government violates the rule imposed by the European Union, which was also passed by the Hungarian legislation into the Stability Act. The medium-term budgetary objective requires Hungary to meet a deficit of 1.7 per cent in proportion to GDP in relation to the structural balance. However, according to the justification of the bill on next year's budget, the government will calculate a structural deficit of 2.1 per cent next year. In the opinion of the Fiscal Council, the government has failed to demonstrate clearly that the deficit target under the Budget Bill meets the EU's structural deficit criterion and the stability law-based requirement. [[0.30]] Of course, it is well known that the Fiscal Council is rather lenient - and mildly speaking - in relation to government policy. The Fiscal Council also made further criticisms of the government, as it believes that the bill does not clearly show the type and extent of risk that the government planned the reserves. It is not exactly possible to see exactly how the government will use the National Defence Fund with HUF 50 billion and the rules for its interim use. In view of next year's budget expenditure, it is also important to consider whether the government is actually spending taxpayers' money on the right things at the right time. Such a consideration could be, for example, the support of more than 70 billion people in public media. A word or two of this support is worth mentioning separately. Last year, the company had a further consolidation of 47.2 billion in addition to the 70 billion forints already given routinely, as it could not manage its operations either from state support or advertising revenue. But here you can also mention the plan to move the government to the Castle, which consumes many, tens of billions of forints or the non-stop stadium building fever that also costs tens of billions of forints. Next year, as planned - but as we know, anything can be rewritten in the budget - the government wants to spend nearly HUF 16 billion on government communication. Ladies and gentlemen, There is much more to say and need to be said about next year's budget, but nothing is going to turn out the way the majority of the government here is going to accept it. The government will sew and sew the budget at its own convenience the way it will not be ashamed of it. It is the responsibility of the pro-government representatives to give their name and vote to a quasi-bianko budget with a calm heart. Dear Parliament, The budget submitted by the government for 2017 cannot be supported and voted on under such conditions and circumstances as I have just mentioned. Since the Hungarian Socialist Party does not agree with the government's spending policy, it does not see the budget figures for next year as real and acceptable, it will not vote in favour. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2016-05-11-184	Thank you very much. Mr Sándor Kovács, representative of Fidesz, is the next speaker. Here you go.
u2016-05-11-185	Thank you very much. Mr President, It's been said here that this budget is dry, dried up. I think that the Greeks would like a budget so predictable, so dry and so securely designed for themselves, under the pressure of the IMF and the pressure of the European Central Bank, which the Socialist Government has so much been able to worship. I think that the 2017 Hungarian budget is predictable and safe, with which everyone can take a step forward. Although it is said by the opposition that this budget is not sound and safe, it is their job to give it to the Hungarian people. It is very easy to promise a raise in wages, my fellow socialists, as Péter Medgyessy did: he gave you a 50 percent raise, which you are shouting, but there was no economic achievement, and therefore the country started on the economic slope on which it had to start. I think that making responsible political progress and careful progress, this kind of disagreement is the basis of your budgetary policy and the budgetary policy of the Orbán government. Allow me to give you a few words in the area of social benefits and benefits. For pensioners, too, the government considers the promise made in 2010 as a deal, a pact, an agreement that the government will increase pensions to the same extent as the current inflation. The figures presented by the Secretary of State showed that last year inflation was negative 1 percent, and it is planned again this year by 0.7 percent. It should also be noted here that, in addition to the increase in pensions fixed in the budget, we believe that the reduction in the cost of living can also be called a reduction in the cost of living. This is another disagreement between you and us, when you do not count reducing expenditure as a social policy benefit or maintaining the balance that the budgetary balance requires. But the disagreement between us is that you demand the government to raise wages in the whole society, but they do not take into account that the vast majority of society produces the wage increase that the government has an influence on, in Hungarian, to regulate the wages of civil servants and civil servants. For these reasons, the policy of economic performance, which the previous Member indeed compensates in his speech by balancing expenditure, the volume of wages and the slightly releasing of resources for accumulation and development for deficit purposes, as we hope to generate economic growth, and not only by 3 percent, but also by using these economic policy steps you call unorthodox, we can also target the budget for 2017 and the foundation for 2018. But I think that we also need to talk about the government's action to help our elderly people in need, such as elderly people's benefits, support for elderly people who do not have a living income, which depends on age and marital status and income. Annuities may be established by the person who has reached the statutory retirement age and the monthly income per capita calculated on the basis of the income of his/her spouse/partner who resides with him/her does not exceed 80 per cent of the current amount of the old-age pension. In different situations, it goes up to 130 percent. This item also provides an average increase of 5 per cent in 2017, to be exact 110 million forints. The amount of care premiums is also increased, although my fellow Member Bangóné misses the so-called equity care fee, which is incorporated into the local government's relief system. In this relief system, a family member who provides an elderly relative or a disabled relative but does not receive this support on a normative basis can resort to the municipality and receive the forms of care that are otherwise defined from the basic amount of the care allowance in the current budget law and will also be increased in the year. Here, too, we make a distinction between the patients in their condition: from 150 percent of the minimum old-age pension rate to 180 percent, and it will mean 5 percent more this year. This represents 54 071 people and is available at 1.2 billion. There is also a higher amount, with exactly 350 million forints, for the regular child protection discount. Within this framework, in accordance with child rights, we help children in need for material reasons to be able to care for their families at home. The benefit is granted to children whose per capita monthly income in their caregiver's family does not exceed 130 per cent of the minimum amount of the old-age pension, or 140 per cent in special cases. Therefore, aid elements related to regular child protection benefits are granted in kind. Based on the social situation of the children who are entitled to benefits, they are entitled to receive free or reduced institutional meals and a holiday meal, as well as to benefits in kind at two times a year, currently worth HUF 5800, on occasion, and other benefits provided by special legislation, such as textbook support, which you do not normally take into account, or dorm fees. The provision of benefits in kind twice a year to a child entitled to benefits will require consumption, in the form of a child protection Erzsébet voucher, which can be used for the purchase of clothing and school supplies. [[0.40]] The budget for next year includes a differentiated increase in the amount of aid in kind granted twice. The increased amount of aid will be eligible for all disadvantaged, cumulative disadvantaged children, with a subsidy amount of HUF 6500. This means that nearly 200,000 children have a 12 percent increase in the amount of support. While other children entitled to regular child protection benefits will be eligible for basic aid. The amount of aid in kind for children who are entitled to the benefit and who are not deemed to be underprivileged is also increased by 3 percent. In this way, it is sometimes insured for 6,000 HUF, which affects a total of 445,000 children. Ladies and gentlemen, Let me also mention the development of social services and basic child welfare services next year. In the case of social and child welfare services, the specific amounts of central budget support remain unchanged between 2016 and 2017, with the addition that the change in the professional content of home assistance is also followed by a change in funding. In the case of social assistance, the state aid is HUF 25,000. We know that they provide it not in the form of care, but in the form of assistance. This can also be requested, as well as the level of state aid in the case of personal care and higher levels of care, on the basis of the bill submitted, against the support of the previous single, 145 thousand HUF/year. A new title is included in Annex 8 to the bill in support of people with autistic diagnosis who care for people with disabilities at home. In 2017, the State aid factor will increase from 1.27 to 1-5 with the new title, i.e. the specific aid will increase from HUF 827 418 to HUF 977 thousand. The government will provide HUF 20 million in additional resources for this purpose in 2017. Similarly to the 16th year, the budget bill of 17th year includes an appropriation for the development of certain social and child protection services, which provides a HUF 200 million amount of funding for the development of social and child protection and child welfare services. Let me also say a few words about the social sector and additional allowances. On 1 December 2016, the social sector bonus and the supplementary allowance were merged. The submitted bill already provides support to municipalities and church and other non-state maintainers for the new social sector's consolidated bonus. The combination of the two allowances also simplifies the application for aid. The amount related to the increase in the specific amount of the consolidated social sector supplement shall be covered in the provision. So the Fidesz-KDNP government intends to take steps to introduce the sectoral career of the social sector this year. The budget available for central budget support for church and other non-state maintainers will increase from HUF 79 billion to HUF 83 billion to HUF 718 million in 2006-2017, with an increase of only HUF 4 billion to HUF 303 million. The budget for individual social, child welfare and children's meals will increase from HUF 187 billion to HUF 719 million between 2016 and 2017 to HUF 198 billion and HUF 548 million. This amount is increasing by HUF 10.8 billion. What I must also mention is that there has never been so much money to feed children. While in excess of previous plans, a total of nearly HUF 74 billion would be allocated to the social meals of next year's budget. This subsidy is more than HUF 2 billion higher than the amount adopted 1 year ago in the 2016 Finance Act. The surplus is due to the fact that from January this year the government extended the holiday meal to every inter-annual break. Thus, not only in summer, but also in spring, autumn and winter, children in need can eat free of charge. In addition, in order to prepare better quality food, the already increased daily support amount will be calculated in the draft budget for next year. Local governments can use HUF 67.2 billion to feed their institutional children, more than HUF 6.6 billion to support the holiday meals of children in need, which is almost HUF 2.2 billion more than this year's source. The draft budget for 2017 has provided the largest amount of food for children since the change of regime. In addition, I would like to ask you to support the 2017 budget. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-05-11-186	Thank you very much. Congressman Ádám Mirkóczki, representative of Jobbik, notary of the Parliament, please.
u2016-05-11-187	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, who are still present at this late hour, or I could say slowly that I wish you all good morning. Obviously, I would like to add the debate to the fact that I would like to add a few additions to the field of commission positions I have held, but rather to raise awareness, which is important and perhaps common in terms of either the country's security policy or future challenges, in the form of certain critical remarks that are indisputable. I believe that the challenges of this time, whether in terms of the immigration crisis or in terms of the most diverse and recent spread of terrorism, are not to be seen as requiring very serious extra resources in terms of both intelligence and counterintelligence. It is neither a question nor a big surprise to say that there is no money in the world that any secret service cannot spend either on modernisation or on human resources development. In this sense, we could always say that more resources are needed, that more funds need to be transferred, but I also consider it a result that, compared to the previous year, the budget of the organisations that are priority to the security of the country will not be reduced, and even additional resources can be added. While I add with some critical edge that, after a propaganda that often addresses a particular challenge, rather than addressing it properly, it exaggerates, and, playing to the fear or naivety of people, creates a kind of communication panic, a particular government can do nothing else if it wants to justify its own policy, it will, as a matter of fact, increase these budgets. To add, I do not wish to lose in particular the details of the secret services on budget lines, but I would like to highlight a few things in the area of law enforcement. I do not want to imply that the programme that you call a career model, which has started in law enforcement, has brought about a salary increase for actual professionals, but I would also like to add that there are shortcomings in this system. I am thinking here about paying overtime and not having many other benefits that we had before. Of course, every law enforcement worker experiences this on their own. Some people were particularly good, others less, but overall, it can be concluded that if this process were not necessarily to be achieved only in a 5% increase, but at a more serious level, it would indeed be possible to call it a career, but I also understand the critical voices who regard it as a scam, but of course I also understand the position of the Ministry of Interior, who calls it a major step forward. There is a true conclusion at both readings, and there is, of course, a strong slippage at both readings. What I think is important to point out is that, although in recent times, we have heard from Secretary of State Kontra at least three thousand and five hundred times that we have initiated 3,500 new police officers, your government. [[0.50]] However, I would like to note that, of course, not to dispute the increase in police numbers, that there are a lot of residential communities in the 3200 settlements of Hungary, especially in small settlements, and there are a lot of settlements where policemen continue to be lacking. There is no doubt that there is no officially, on paper, settlement in Hungary that does not have a district agent, but I would like to stress that while a district agent sometimes has four or five small settlements, it is physically impossible to perform the service. So the fact that each settlement has a district agent and a permanent police presence - although this is usually in the sound of the Ministry of Interior - is not true. In a budgetary debate, I think it is important to note that if this objective, which should be fully eligible, and not a police officer, if any, and not a police district commissioner, but two or three, because, unfortunately, in some areas, in some regions or regions or in some municipalities, public security is such that it can withstand all this, then in a budget it should also be borne in mind that, in the medium and long term, I am not talking about officials, I am not talking about traffic cops with trampipax, but about professionals who actually serve patrols, how should I be able to set up 100, two hundred or five hundred more police officers specifically for this task. Unfortunately, this does not come back in this budget. Once again, of course, we see the 53 billion extra resources that appear to be suitable for continuing the career model, but the truly key developments, the increase in the number of effective, actual, public security patrols to prevent crime, cannot be seen. The same applies to the area of detention. There's a big problem there, too. As I recall, it was Mr Péter Ágh who welcomed the fact that new prisons would be built and expanded. We're not saying there's no need. I do not know the latest statistics, but last I remember there are some 140 percent saturation of prison institutions in Hungary, which in itself makes it necessary to build more such facilities. Obviously, this can be appreciated in many ways, if only it were not necessary, but unfortunately it is necessary. However, it would also be necessary to estimate employees in prison institutions at a level such as to welcome back a kind of career model. A predictable wage development should appear over a period of at least a few years, because it is not enough that they work under step-by-step conditions, it is not enough that they carry out one of the most unthankful tasks on a daily basis, but in terms of their salary, their appreciation is in the last place among the jobs under BM. We have, of course, tabled an amendment to this. We are not naive, of course we do not expect this amendment to be supported, but we are confident that the competent authorities or the department will assess what is very legitimate in this area. And if I add what funds will be spent in the next year's budget only for government communication and propaganda - I would like deliberately to parallel non-breathing machines and incubators - then we see that there is no area of life in which these funds could not be spent much more important, either on wage developments or in other areas. What is now, perhaps, is a huge problem in the Hungarian police for decades, is the equipment, its quality, its nature and its incompetence. Without losing myself in detail, let's look at the weaponry. It is interesting that the PA 63 pistols were organized by the Hungarian police in 1963. And although the demand appears regularly and we hear a lot about it every year, since 1963 it has not been possible to resolve at least the continuous exchange of this, which would be essential, simply because in our environment today - not for the whole of the European Union, but for our immediate neighbours - nobody uses it or has it to a minimal extent that puts Hungary at the forefront of a kind of shame list. They shall be replaced immediately. If I remember the statistics correctly, 20 to 30 shots a year will be boasted by the Hungarian police. They cannot be used safely or effectively. In this sense, maintaining public security and serving the purpose for which these units were created cannot be. They need to be replaced immediately, which, in turn, costs money. Here I would also like to highlight what might increase the subjective sense of security. We have seen AMD machine gun professionals on the streets of Budapest, but I would like to stress that God forbid any police officer or soldier carrying these weapons should use them, since these weapons were specifically designed for military units with de-arms. These weapons have such characteristics that, at close range, within a certain distance, their only shot can penetrate the 10-inch concrete wall, which means that in the streets of Budapest or in an area where there are more civilians, even though they want to use the armed attacker effectively, this can carry about four human bodies. I am only saying this, and I really do not want to lose myself in the details, because such inadequate weapons are currently in the possession of Hungarian law enforcement. At that time, we had not yet discussed the lack of an adequate background to establish a confident and safe application. In this respect, then, we should again reach into pockets, and obviously the sky is the limit here. However, it should simply be taken into account how countries at the same economic level have managed this in our immediate environment; Hungary could do this much more and more. We will, of course, submit a budget amendment to this, specifically with a view to taking seriously the modernisation of police arms and the replacement of at least a certain percentage of the police's arms each year, because God forbid these weapons should be used or used, because they are much more damaging to our colleagues than they would use. The Immigration and Nationality Office would also need greater resources because of its priority and additional tasks. I think it does not need to be explained in particular that, in this crisis, when so many requests and all other bureaucratic activities need to be dealt with as efficiently and quickly as possible, there should be a significantly greater additional resource for hiring new staff or paying overtime. On the other hand, these are not the items that could not be managed from less important areas in a budget such as government communication, for example. [[1.00]] Here I would just like to mention, if we stick to the issue of immigration, that there is still no border guard in Hungary. There's no proper border control, border protection. And all of this causes when illegal immigration was at its peak, or, let's say, at its peak last summer and autumn, then almost every county in Hungary, but from the vast majority of counties not only the Alert Police, not only the different grade students of the officers' and deputy schools, but also the district commissioners and a lot of police officers were taken to the southern border because they were needed. But this means that if you have to think of not only the Serbian-Hungarian border at a time, but also of other places, if a wave of this kind happens again at a time, and all of this, let us say, is that people with bad intentions, criminals and ill-meaning citizens, the various settlements, counties and regions of Hungary will be completely defenseless, because there is no police physically. Obviously not as a budget proposal for 2017, but I continue to say that it must be considered very seriously that there is a need for an independent border guard in Hungary. It's not for the soldiers and not for the police, it's for the time being, it's for the border guard. There is no better proof of this than the fact that, among some Member States with Schengen borders and even without Schengen borders, only Hungary can say that it does not have an independent border guard in the European Union. It's very easy to look into. I propose this for further consideration, and I trust in the wisdom and responsibility of everyone, in the sense that they handle these security policy issues properly, and that, for the future, political work should serve to put these issues aside as effectively as possible, even jointly, in order to achieve the right goal. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2016-05-11-188	Thank you very much. Since no one has asked for a two-minute speech, we will continue with the speakers announced in advance. Congressman Attila Petneházy, Fidesz. Here you go.
u2016-05-11-189	I would like to thank the President with respect and pleasure. Dear House, Dear fellow Members, Forgive me for making a personal sound at this late hour. And my personal experience is that for the first time in my life I've had the pleasure of looking at a budget, or, if you like, for the first time, I've had the pleasure of going through a budget - even though it was a city budget, it's true, it's my beloved city, Nyíregyháza's budget - and I've said to myself, "Yes, I'm sorry for the expression, it's not nothing, it's a manly thing to do. Well, I'm telling you, it was a city budget. Then what would one say when it comes to a country's budget, a nation's budget? I don't think it's easy to prepare this, even if you lack those important funds, and I'm thinking about the budgets of the past, so when you lack the basic things that are important for preparation. It is indicated if it is based on non-enhancing economic performance. If, don't give, God, it's not based on real economic data. 'Cause, you know, we remember there were times like this. I could use the term "false economic data" here. Or if the budget deficit isn't low. Well, then, what kind of task is that if all of this is the opposite? True, that is true for the present budget. Although it is true that it might be a subject of debate, I am not going to agree on which one is more difficult to bring together, the budget placed on real foundations or the budget placed on a non-real basis. Dear House, Dear fellow Members, It is not easy to judge how I post a budget, how I approach it. Mr Tobias said that in terms of preparing the budget, there could be different aspects, different ideologies. That's right. That's right. Well, how the hell is that not so, please, honourable fellow Members? Ideology and thinking are different, and attitudes are different. I think maybe that's okay. Or maybe that's okay. Predictability, security, and, if you will, yes, in a conservative manner, as Minister said in his speech to the lead speaker, and, as he said, this budget has been drawn up in a conservative manner. I'd like to underline that twice. It also includes the prevention of unforeseen events, which may not have been discussed today, if I recall correctly. Yes, it's very important. I do not have to say that in today's Europe, unfortunately, there is a chance or a chance for these unexpected events. Unfortunately. I must once again quote the words of Congressman Tobias. If I remember correctly, he said, and I saw that he wasn't kidding, but he was talking about budget, and he couldn't walk with his legs tied. Well, I could say you can't look blindfolded, you can't listen with a blindfolded ear. What I don't understand is what this has to do with the budget. [[Dr. István Józsa: Everyone step forward.]] But he also added to the bound leg that we could try. We're pro-government now. From certain experience, our fellow Member Tobias spoke to allow a little eight-year period, and he must have thought of the past in terms of bound legs. By the way, what I would suggest on my part is that if you were to make a criticism, and that was often, unfortunately, typical of today, you should be a little naughty with words. I'm not just talking about rough sentences, I'm thinking about demagoguery. I'm sorry, there's a lot of good people in this. Last time, I'm sorry you're gone, Miss Bangóné and Anita Heringes, who may have repeatedly suggested that we pro-governments would be insensitive. I personally would also refuse to question the goodwill of any of us. I think that what someone has to say doesn't make a lot more sense by using phrases that can safely be described as lavish terms, and he dares to say that many times, several times and several times again. Dear House, Dear fellow Members, I could have started by saying that anyone who would not vote for this budget will not vote in favour of increasing support for health care, not voting in favour of increasing support for education, or what was very painful for me and hit me in the heart, to support the programme of modern cities. As a representative of Nyíregyháza, this has been particularly sensitive, because I believe that, among other things, Mr Csaba Tóth said that he may be having difficulty with this kind of support. I think that such support could not be found, no matter how much I would go back in time, and no matter how much we search. For example, the tourism sector mentioned by my fellow Member, Mr Bánki, will benefit from this support. Let me be proud to say that the development of the tourism sector in Nyíregyháza at the national average, which, I say, my fellow Member, Mr Bánki, has just praised and made an improvement of one and a half times. [[1.10]] But I could mention the development of the industrial park. At the beginning, I mentioned the so-called ideology, which I do not think is from any devil in a concept, it was also another ideology, if you will, a different aspect, a change of perspective when the Orbán government changed its tasks in relation to Hungarianism beyond the border. These were historical changes compared to a decade ago, remember, heaven and earth, as my colleague Erik Bánki has already said. If my fellow Members think back 12 years ago, at this time the party on the current government, some of which, sitting here, still remember those who campaigned with great forces so that Hungary would not support or represent foreign Hungarians, we remember such things. They succeeded then, but today, I think they also consider this a bad decision, at least if I mention one, a certain apology confirms this, but the current Hungarian government is thinking in a nation. When the Fidesz government came to government in 2010, it was one of the measures, and it is well remembered that they gave us the opportunity to take on citizenship by our countrymen living outside the borders. He assured them, I think, that he would take responsibility for them. This was done in a very difficult situation, in a difficult economic situation, but it has been discussed many times today, proving the Committee on National Inclusion, and I am particularly pleased to say this as a member of the Committee on National Inclusion, because I believe that this is not a question of money. That is, if you will, an ideological question, an expression of something, an unshakable starting point, which is the basis of Hungarian civic thinking, if you will. Yes, this economic assistance is on a historical scale, which has already been discussed, which my fellow Member, Mr Chenger-Zalán, has also spoken about, I am thinking of helping Vojvodina, and this is a new era. I believe that there has not been such a government before that, which would have supported Hungarians living beyond the borders to such an extent. The 50 billion HUF mentioned, which is good for the Hungarians living outside, is also good for the Hungarians living within our borders, because this kind of economic recovery also triggers a system of relations, and it is good for the EU as well. With this step, if you will, we will show the Hungarian communities across the border a future. What a change this is compared to the steps of the previous decade. It is also proof of the Hungarian government's economic policy that Hungary can now advertise such a large scale economic development, such a program in which it supports Vojvodina, and also Transylvania, Transcarpathia and Felvidék. Upland, Transylvania with HUF 1-1 billion and more than HUF 5 billion in Transcarpathia, the proximity of which is even more dear to my heart as a birchist. Ladies and Gentlemen, Dear fellow Members, Perhaps we can say that this kind of initiative, which is only a beginning, at least in my best hope, is a beginning, this kind of support for Hungarians beyond the border will start a trend that is all useful to us Hungarians living within the border, but to the Hungarians of the entire Carpathian Basin. Thank you very much for your attention at this late hour. [[Applause from the Fidesz ranks.]]
u2016-05-11-190	Thank you very much, Congressman. Our next speaker is Mr István Józsa, representative of the MSZP. Here you go.
u2016-05-11-191	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, Perhaps, as such, I would like to ask you a few questions. Is it possible to present a well-founded budget to the House without the laws establishing the budget being discussed by Parliament? I'm not saying we don't know them, because, after all, they're going to trial on Friday, but there's a saying that it's unfortunate for the car to avoid the horse. Why could it not, according to the natural logic of things, first adopt the laws establishing the budget for Parliament, then negotiate and adopt tax laws for a better definition of the source side of the also logical order, or, say, also on Friday, the law on the amendment of excise duty, which even has doubts about its houseliness, because it was presented in versions A and B? It would be bad enough if it were adopted in this way, because then what will be used in the future. When we say that this proposal is fundamentally doubtful, I mean the budget, then in a legal sense, I think it will definitely stop. So there is no legal basis for this proposal. In a legal sense, it should be preceded by the adoption of laws on the basis of which the budget is based, the adoption of tax laws and, say, the knowledge of certain facts. I'm not saying they didn't make in-depth estimates and preliminary calculations in the Ministry of Finance, but it's different, let's say, to know most of the data of a year and finalize a year's budget in September, October, like not even waiting and bringing in the semester. So much has been explained to us by Secretary of State Banai, if you would explain to us the urge that you were brought into the spring session last year, you will bring the budget in the spring session again this year, when you really can only build on previous planning data, less fact data. I would like to clarify Mr Petneházy's quotes a little bit, because I have been here since morning and I have heard the lectures you quoted well and badly, so Minister Mihály Varga said in his speech in his speech that the '17 budget guarantees, of course he plagiarized the Prime Minister in this sense, so that all Hungarians can take a step forward. That's what Mihály Varga said. [[Attila Petnehazy: I didn't say that.]] But he didn't understand what Mr. József Tobias was reacting when he said that he couldn't move with his legs tied. [[Petnehazy Attila: Understood.]] In fact, this was already a reflection on the speaker's speech and your approach to trying to tell the Hungarian people that everyone can take a step. Well, not everyone can take a step. Anyone who's wealthy can make a big move. Who is not wealthy, let's say, is 41 percent of those who are forced to live under a minimum of living, let's say, rather typical of what Mr.József Tobias said, that they expect him to be bound to feel that he can move forward. [[1.20]] His mistake in the other use of words - I do not blame him for not dealing with philosophy - was a social philosophy approach, so he did not speak of ideology, but he did not use it, Mr. Group leader, but he spoke about social philosophy in the introduction, and he described that in his social philosophy this budget - as in the past - carries the durability of hopelessness for millions of Hungarians who live in a modest line, because your conservative government specifically favors the wealthy. So you believe that they are building a civil Hungary, saying that they are trying to put the middle layer in the position, but far from the middle layer, because what is positive in your tax policy is clearly in favour of the top 10 percent income layer, less for the others. If we mention the decylis used in sociology, there was never such a difference between the lower and upper decylis, the income relationship of the lower decylis is ten times higher than the top 10 percent. We say that this budget is not moving towards justice, but towards a further division of society. What makes the effectiveness of economic policy, let's say, to some extent comparable, is the result of Hungary compared to other countries in the region. Here we can clearly say that this budget is forecasting further delays from the countries of the region. So you are eight years old in a country where you have been ruling for six years, and there has never been such an economic and social difference in any number of years. If we look at what your economic policy has brought since 2010, I have already mentioned one: lagging behind in relation to the countries in the region. The other is improving the balance of public finances. You are very proud of how much it has been improved, well, the debt of less than HUF 20,000 billion has been upped over HUF 25 000 billion, and you do not even shy away from certain year-end tricks, which, for example, is likely to play a significant role in the opinion of credit rating agencies, that Hungary is still not out of the Bóvl category. Poverty has unfortunately increased in the majority of society. As I said, the distance between the poorest and the richest layers is increasing. According to the OECD study, the investment climate has not improved, there is no reliable legal environment that can help this. You are clearly responsible for the weakened forint. Since 2010, the forint has lost about one fifth of its value, the euro exchange rate was around HUF 260-265 at the time of the change of government, now it is around HUF 315, and you have considered HUF 312 in the budget. I'm afraid that's your conscious economic policy goal, but they'll never admit it. There are also a lot of claims in the country that the national currency has lost 20 percent of its value. In real terms, the EU's inflows of funds needed for investments will be less than in the 2014-2020 budget period than in the previous seven years, although you claim the opposite by showing the forint value. Smaller resources are also intended to be used in full prematurely, so organic development is not guaranteed. A great deal has been mentioned between welfare measures to reduce VAT in certain areas. We say that it is right to reduce the overall turnover tax, because this 27 percent is extremely high. It is also not exactly stated from the last eight years that we have raised the general sales tax. We never went above 25 percent, we went below for a short time. You, on the other hand, keep the general sales tax at a constant rate of over 25 per cent, 27 per cent. But our biggest problem is this. We have made a firm proposal in a welfare approach, because everyone knows that the general sales tax is a tax on the poor, because the wealthy do not consume that much more, so they will not pay substantially more sales taxes, but they will buy the products needed for life with a conceptual tax of 27 per cent, which means they will pay a usury tax. So we said that basic food should be included in the reduction of the general sales tax to 5 per cent, as we have already reduced the sales tax on district heating to 5 per cent at the time of our government. Instead, you are using turnover tax reduction to solve sectoral problems, where there is a problem with the proportion of the black and clean economy, where you are trying to operate with the general sales tax. Of course, I do not deny that this has a certain social welfare effect, but the basic goal of making people with lower incomes cheaper to the food circle they need to make a living is only a fraction. In the OECD's view, Hungary's economic indicators have been acceptable over the past period, mainly due to the acceleration of the drawdown of EU funds and the achievement of tax revenues has improved. So I can say positively both about the outcome of the introduction of online cash registers and about the impact of electronic transport control, and we even suggest that Mr State Secretary had such a condition that this would be made more extensive, that is what we believe is right, that there is a great deal of reserves in the whitening of the economy, and that when the world enters the IT era, we must also make use of the opportunities offered by IT in the field of whitening of the economy. At the same time, we are missing figures compared to the countries in the region. Even the government expects a 2.5 percent increase in 2016, while the growth rate in Slovakia is 3.2 percent, in Poland 3.7 percent, and in Romania is expected to grow by 4.2 percent, according to the European Commission data. The government's forecast for a 3.1 percent growth next year is overestimated by both the OECD and the European Commission, and they can predict a 2.8 percent expectation. According to the findings of international organisations such as the OECD already mentioned, Hungary's economic indicators have improved, but their sustainability is difficult to guarantee in the long term under current economic policy. The Hungarian government is either not doing enough to change the things that underpin growth in the right direction, or sometimes even worse. You always say that the MSZP is on the side of banks. Well, you're on the National Bank's side, as we've seen in recent times. In our opinion, growth is currently more likely to occur through investment by foreign multi-company companies and through EU transfers, while Hungarian companies, especially small and medium-sized enterprises, are barely willing to invest in the uncertain market and legal environment. [[1.30]] The reason for this is that the essential elements of the regulation are changing too quickly and unpredictablely. The lack of investment and the lack of inflow of foreign working capital compared to its possible level can substantially contribute to the fact that, among the macroeconomic indicators reported by the government, Eurostat does not consider the number of sovereign debt to be fully reliable or credible. This in itself could also cause far more damage to credit rating agencies than if the government allowed in this debate and corrected sovereign debt indicators. A fair procedure, agreement with these organisations, is likely to increase confidence and help the Hungarian classification to move out of the Bóvl category. I do not believe that it strengthens confidence in the extortion of György Matolcsy into the foundations. The budget does not even happen to mention the results that individual wallets and targets could achieve with the 266 billion that the Hungarian National Bank did not pay to the budget, but to the foundations it itself grunted about. In fact, the strengthening of confidence is significantly reduced by the fact that György Matolcsy, the chairman of the Board of Governors of one of the foundations, decided to use the amounts allocated. This, I think, is a question to be decided whether it is against the law or the law, let us say that it would be the task of justice and law enforcement if there were consistent law enforcement in Hungary, but I believe that, by breaking good morals, my fellow Members should also agree. It is not compatible with the good morals that György Matolcsy is doing with public funds. If I go further, where will the example appear? So when it comes to setting standards, what sets the standard of the behavior of a nation, a people, the conduct of the leaders plays a significant role in it, in any case, in what example they see. The President of the National Bank is a person in the spotlight who should not be lobbying a bill to encrypt the hundreds of billions he has shoveled, but should show an exemplary attitude by which, let us say, tax discipline would improve, rather than show an example or practice of concealing revenue. I would like to say a few words about what we have noticed as an innovation in the budget, that the otherwise very good expectation that the balance sheet of the domestic operating budget should not show a deficit was solved by a clever technique, that it was divided into three parts: a domestic operating budget, a domestic stockpiling budget and an EU development budget, and we see that it has been set sufficiently unilaterally so that the operating budget has a deficit of zero, and that the deficit has been shifted to the other two areas, which are significantly higher than in the period of the previous announcement of the budget. We therefore do not see the commitment that should be made between proclaiming the stability of the budget and presenting the budget. It seems that this rigour is more of a hoax, it's actually an election budget, an election division. The important consequence of raising the budget deficit to 2.4 percent is that the structural deficit will also rise next year, thereby violating the regulation imposed by the EU, which is also enshrined in Hungarian law, and the Hungarian legislation states in the Stability Act that the structural deficit should not increase, and accordingly it would be desirable to meet the structural deficit of 1.7 percent next year. This has been resolved by you, when the State Audit Office and the Fiscal Council have commented on this, by referring to a generous remark on different calculation models, and by increasing the level of reserves, thus bridging it as if it were not such a big problem. This also weakens the possibility of creating confidence in the budget. I think that, in a serious case, this should not be done. Ladies and gentlemen, In our opinion, the very controversial hiatus of next year's budget, which you claim to be positive, is that a higher amount is included in health care and for certain social and educational purposes, that, in our view, there is a much greater problem in the health sector, and that there is a much greater problem in education than that which we believe can be soothed by these appropriations. Therefore, the Ministry of Finance, now called the Ministry of Economy, may think that it has set a generous amount, but seeing the realization of this, through what mechanisms it takes, seeing that the annual debt of hospitals is regenerating year after year, and that permanent support packages are needed for consolidation, shows us that health care, especially hospitals, is underfunded. The fact that hospital departments, say, three of its eight wards, have to be locked up because there are not enough nurses in the department, because of a lack of nurses, they cannot employ the number necessary for their full operation, it shows that there is a very, very serious problem, and that the flow is no longer in the direction of going abroad, it is already apparent that college nurses undertake to transfer themselves to the electric car instead of their net salary of HUF 120,000, or to work elsewhere in Budapest for a net price of HUF 175,000. So when the situation of the dominant human resource in a sector becomes so uncompetitive when it becomes so questionable, we think that it is too late for the government to take measures and that not only at the level of the budget, but it would require much more urgent action. Fellow Members! There may still be a little debate, so I'm gonna thank you for your attention and save some time to see if there's anything more to respond to. Thank you, Mr. President.
u2016-05-11-192	Thank you very much. No one asked for a two-minute speech, so it is up to Mr Mihály Witzmann, representative of Fidesz, as a pre-notification speaker. Here you go.
u2016-05-11-193	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, First of all, I would like to thank you for your persistent attention to everyone who is still in this room at this hour of late or almost early in the morning, in order to debate and discuss next year's budget figures. In this connection, I think it can be said in any way that 2017 will be the sixth year since the 2010 change of government when the civilian government is given the opportunity, the mandate to prepare Hungary's budget, so we can also say that it is now the sixth year that we have tried to correct the failed policy and economic policy of the socialist governments by continuing an irresponsible budget for the country, that our country has been put in bankruptcy, and that the total collapse has been prevented only by taking on the gigantic IMF-EU loan. [[1.40]] I think that I would respond to the sentence of my fellow Member István Józsa when he spoke about budgetary tricks, putting aside any serious friction or debate. I find it rather interesting when a socialist politician talks about tricks in terms of the budget, especially after the fact that during the Gyurcsány government he was deliberately kept secret before the parliamentary elections - and then I gently expressed myself - a set of fresh economic statistics so that voters would not be able to face these disappointing and ominous data and information. We now know that there was little to be boasted of with these data, as the then government managed to bring together a 9.3 percent deficit in 2006 without any war, crisis, migrant flow or financial difficulties. And in peacetime, a budget with such a deficit may in any case not be excessive if we say that it is also a historical record. Of course, irresponsible fiscal policy was once again indebted to, and dollar- and Swiss-based loans came, as we saw at the time. But we could get used to it, because this is how they did it in socialism, in the '70s and '80s they also took on a series of loans based on dollars and Swiss francs, with which the country suffered a great deal of interest and exchange rate losses, and with this whole economy, unfortunately, the bitter effects of which, to this day, whether we say it or not, can be economically justified to feel. In fact, the country's debt in the period of socialist governments or its coming into economic bankruptcy is clearly confirmed by the fact that, while the government debt-to-GDP ratio was at 53 percent in 2002, it increased to almost 84% after the eight-year government administration of the socialists. Fortunately, the change of government in 2010 has led to a clear turn in economic policy, as the economy is on the growth path, we are out of the so-called excessive deficit procedure, and, in addition, the Hungarian economy is characterised by declining public debt, low government deficits, increasing employment, in fact, by record low inflation, increasing industry, rising trade. This year, the last EUR 14.3 billion of EU-IMF loans received by the aforementioned Gyurcsány government in 2008 at a panic-like speed were fully repaid by the country. In fact, what a burden this big loan really is, I might try to show it here in terms of the people living in my own constituency. The EU-IMF loan package for the inhabitants of the Somogy County 4 constituency totalled around 36 billion, while the seat of my constituency and the city of Siófok had more than 11 billion forints in debt at the time. Fortunately, however, as I said before, this is a thing of the past and a bad memory for all of us. I would like nothing more to do with the past, but as an introduction, as a reminder, I thought it was important to mention the facts listed because, as in the budget, in politics, in history, I think that things should be seen in the process. There's nothing without a history, and everything has consequences. Sometimes it doesn't hurt to remind ourselves where we started and what kind of government mistakes they were that shouldn't be made again. Ladies and gentlemen, In view of the economic policy achievements of the last few years, I believe that we can safely say - even though many people are doubting this, we have already heard from several speakers in the benches of the opposition - that the Hungarian reforms really work. We hope that the 2017 budget will really make it possible for everyone to move forward, and we think that no one has to tie their limbs, and we can do this without it. [[Dr. István Józsa: The government has already concluded!]] You don't have to do an acrobat trick. At least, that's the goal, so that more people can move forward. And the fact that, following the traditions of previous years, next year's budget can be adopted in the spring session, I think that it will in any case increase predictability and predictability for families, the population, for businesses, for municipalities and for the public sector. Dear Parliament, The continuously improving macroeconomic indicators I mentioned earlier, we know that, although they are undoubtedly important and perhaps even of strategic importance from a national economy perspective, but if we are completely honest and go to the electorate, we go to the population, we talk to them in forums, then these indicators are not of any interest to them. Therefore, before I deal in more detail with the development of public debt, as I indicated in advance, I would like to share with you a few concrete examples of the easiness of the 2017 budget for the people of Somogy who live in my constituency. We have also heard that this budget is favourable to the wealthy, and I would like to say in response to this, that in the case of taxes, the personal income tax rate reduced from 16 per cent to 15 per cent last year leaves more than HUF 1.1 billion in my constituency, the people in Somogy County 4 and, in particular, in the seat of the constituency, and in the pockets of the taxpayers of Siófok, nearly HUF 350 million per year. In the case of basic foods, VAT cuts - from 27 per cent to 5 per cent of VAT on poultry, milk and eggs - mean hundreds of millions of dollars for people living in the region. We have only calculated, as an example, that in the case of families with two children living in Somogy County District No.4 this is 134 million forints per year, and for families with two children in Siófok about 40 million forints per year savings resulting from a 1 percent tax reduction. The reduction of VAT on the Internet is another good example, since it only allows savings of HUF 45-50 million in Siófok and nearly HUF 140 million in the region among Internet subscribers in 2017. I looked at the family tax relief in more detail. As a result of this increase, families with two children living in Somogy County District 4 can expect an additional annual income of about HUF 100 million, while Siófok can expect an additional income of approximately HUF 29,5-30 million for families with two children in the coming year. I think that some of the examples mentioned without the need for completeness also show that the draft budget before us can make further progress for all Hungarians with tax cuts, broadening family support, home creation opportunities and wage rise programmes and career models. In addition, I believe that the current government, as it has always done in recent years, will continue to maintain and maintain the deficit targets next year. This can be guaranteed, among other things, by a number of items included in the budget. This was already referred to by my colleague Attila Petneházy, who spoke before me. For example, this is the HUF 110 billion planned for extraordinary government measures, or the HUF 60 billion allocated to the possible expenditure of the National Defence Fund. If we look around Europe, we can see that the continent's debt has continued over the last five years, because the debt has increased by nearly 10 percent in terms of the EU's 28 Member States. On the other hand, in Hungary the level of public debt has fallen below the European average. Since 2010, Hungary has managed to reduce the debt ratio by about 8.2 percentage points to 75.5 percent in proportion to gross domestic product, as well as the debt reduction process in Hungary alone. The 2017 projections show a 71-72-percent reduction in government debt-to-GDP ratio. Our country is also one of the six European countries that have been able to reduce its debt compared to 2010, and we have had the largest reduction in public debt after Germany and Latvia in the last five years. I think that next year's planning clearly shows that, as has already been the case, the civilian government will continue to place great emphasis on the ongoing decline in public debt. The reduction in public debt must be considered among the most important economic priorities, because if the debt did not decrease, the accumulated debt would once again become unmanageable and we would move back on the path of debt. For this reason, I consider it important to highlight the activities of the Government Debt Management Centre, the efficient and effective operation on which I would also like to draw attention - we have heard a number of comparisons here - that for 14 years there has not been an example that the returns of Hungarian sovereign debt fall below the yield levels of the sovereign debt of Poland, which has an otherwise dominant economic potential in the Central European region. [[1.50]] I believe that this is a pretty clear sign that the market has, in fact, already clearly flooded Hungary's economic performance a long time ago, and that the qualification, I think, is waiting for you. We also find that these international credit rating agencies are talking more and more highly about the Hungarian economy, but unfortunately they are operating and weighing in a political way, so this rating is still waiting for you for some strange reason. In the opinion of economic experts, if the three largest credit rating agencies were to finally raise domestic sovereign debt to the category recommended for the investment, the return on long-term sovereign debt could be further reduced by at least 40 basis points. This quality change could make Hungarian sovereign debt even more sought-after, as it could finally open the door for investors who have not bought from the so-called non-investment sovereign debt. This would clearly increase demand for Hungarian sovereign debt, further reducing returns, extending the maturity structure, which would make the debt service more predictable. I would also like to mention one more important point, since we are at the level of public debt. In addition, it is worth considering how the structure of this Hungarian national debt has evolved in recent years. In 2011, about 70 percent of total debt was held by foreigners and the foreign exchange debt ratio was around 50 percent. On the other hand, the foreign exchange debt ratio has now fallen to 31 percent, domestic funding has improved significantly, and 50 percent of the newly created Hungarian household savings are already incarnate in sovereign debt. I think it is also important to mention that the improvement in the structure of public debt has also had positive consequences for investor confidence. This is also shown by the fact that the country's CDS prices have decreased significantly, as while, in the time of the crisis, the CDS share of Hungarian sovereign debt was largely 400-500-600 basis points, this value has now fallen to 150-160 basis points. I also consider it an extremely important step that, in addition to the issuance of euro and dollar-based sovereign debt, the Hungarian State is already appearing on Asian markets, which resulted in a successful auction in China in the spring, which increased the diversification of the investors' circle. The transaction was carried out with more than double overtones in the amount of one billion yuan, or 136,8 million euros. From the yuan bonds thus issued, Hungary will certainly be able to cover a significant part of the foreign exchange debt due this year, and the remaining part will be paid from the forint market by the State Debt Management Centre, which will further reduce the foreign exchange ratio of the debt. Ladies and gentlemen, To sum up what has been said so far, I believe that, as has been the case in the last six years, the government has presented a responsible, realistic fiscal bill, which is counting on significant tax cuts, growing family support and substantial wage increases in many areas, doing so without prejudice to budgetary discipline, and that public debt remains on a downward path. That is why I ask you to support the adoption of next year's budget with your votes following the debate. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause from the Fidesz ranks.]]
u2016-05-11-194	Thank you very much. On behalf of the government, István Nagy, State Secretary asked for the floor. Here you go.
u2016-05-11-195	Thank you very much. Very briefly. Mr President, Dear fellow Members, There is a question that has remained in the air, and I would like to thank my fellow Member, Józsa, for recognising the activity, the struggle that the Hungarian government is fighting for the whitening of the economy, both for the EKAER and for the online register, and for raising the question of using VAT reductions to solve sectoral problems. I must say, my dear fellow Member, that we do not want to step into the shoes that your government has already done once, that it has made a wage increase that has not been covered by economic performance. The current government can only make decisions and measures that have an appropriate economic background and allow for adequate funding. And here's another question for Congresswoman Bangón, why the pig's VAT first. And the answer to that is precisely that, as long as there was a steady market access opportunity in other sectors, the pig sector was very infected, and in many grey zones, there were many black parts, VAT-fraud products. The results of the reduced VAT have very well shown how it has cleaned and bleached this sector. And I have to say that your wish, wish, is when to reduce the VAT on basic foodstuffs will come: you can see the budget before us, and I urge you to support it with your vote, even because of the VAT cuts, as will all my fellow Members. Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. [[Applause from the Fidesz ranks.]]
u2016-05-11-196	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, No two-minute speakers. Our announced speakers have run out. But we can welcome Mr István Józsa as a representative asking for a normal word. Here you go.
u2016-05-11-197	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I would like to draw the attention of the last Member, Mr Fidesz, to the fact that this budget proposal, compared to the previous one, does not have an impact on improving budgetary discipline, but rather on relaxing it. Take a look at the figures, as compared to last year's budgetary discipline, this is an important relaxation, and it is definitely a relaxation compared to previous plans that were formulated at the initial stage of budget planning. So it would be nice to be a little more specific, so that you don't say exactly the opposite of what is the trend. The other one. It was interesting to hear about the issuance of Chinese bonds and the transfer of loans and the repayment of the IMF loan within the same comment. You know very well that this means that, in the case of the IMF, other loans have been used to provide the current repayments or repayments of the IMF loan, and I would also like to say that if you did not remember that you have spent exactly EUR 1.8 billion of the IMF loan on the purchase of MOL bonds, which, of course, you can say, you have bought a dubious asset from the loan we have been criticised, which then lost 30-40 percent of its value. So we need to be more careful about this. The other one. He also stepped into the pit with which he himself proved the fact that we say they are tearing society apart. So the fact that foreign funding was able to go to 31 percent, because the value of the Hungarian residential savings has risen, is a numerical proof of what we say about the nature of the Hungarian population, that you have benefited a lot from the 3200 billion that someone here has shown that they have stayed with the people in five years for tax relief, and you have also calculated how much better the people who earn well. So this shows what you have read numerically naively in debt financing, that it will fatten the savings of a very narrow population, and that consumption in small-time earners, unfortunately, has been missing for a long time from living. Of course, it can be said that consumption has already increased in recent years, really, but it stagnated for four years, or it was a year when retail consumption went backwards. So you're mixing this conservative term, using it in two ways. In one sense, as I have used it, your government is a conservative government, so it does not move towards social justice, but it favours the affluent part of society. You say that they are building a civil Hungary, and we say they are increasing social injustice. The other approach is to plan a budget in a conservative way, which means that they prefer to take pessimistic variations from the different options that can be taken into account. In mathematics and engineering, this is called a conservative approach, that it is not optimistic, but rather calculated with worse opportunities. Well, I wouldn't say that it's conservative in that sense, because 3.1 percent is very optimistic. [[2.00]] I would very much like it to be fulfilled, before they say, as they say, the MSZP is pro-immigration, we are not pro-immigration at all, we have asked you for humanum, which is what you have been trying to screw out in a different sense. Here, I would very much like the 3.1 percent increase to be achieved, as, if you recall, Mr Secretary of State - he was still head of department - the 50 percent wage development at the time of Péter Medgyessy had its growth cover. At that time, the economy was on a very dynamic growth path - of course the result of the previous government was included - and it was the President of the Central Bank of Járai Zsigmond who overpowered the forint in an extreme way, with a euro of HUF 230, with a base rate of 11-12 percent. So Zsigmond Járai has significantly curbed the Hungarian economy through monetary policy. So our plan was not to irresponsiblely raise civil servants' wages by 50 percent, we said in slang that the economy could grow, who could produce the funding. Zsigmond Járai's blessing or unblessed activity, depending on how we look at it, has contributed significantly to the economic growth of around 4 per cent - 3.9 per cent precisely - from the monetary policy side. So I'd like to refuse to be irresponsible in the development of wages. However, you could divide the nation's assets more fairly than if you added up the 266 billion of György Matolcsy and added the extraordinarily hundreds of billions that the transformation of the Castle, the move-up, the integration of the Liget, then, as you have counted back in your constituency, I can say that for 10 million Hungarians, what this circle means is half a million forints for each Hungarian, so what Matolcsy spent and what you spend on prestige investments. So I'd like you to get a little closer when you talk to the truth. Thank you.
u2016-05-11-198	Thank you very much. György Lukács asked for a two-minute speech. You have one minute seven seconds.
u2016-05-11-199	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. At the end of the debate, I would like to bring up two other issues in which perhaps the Secretary of State can answer. One of them is a great sense of absence that I couldn't find in the budget, perhaps in this you can give me as much information as to whether there is or isn't, and what people who are M4 victims of the Simicska-Orbán war can expect, because the M4 motorway, who knows what it is now, is also the Jász-Nagykun-Szolnok county section, I can't see or find the costs of it anywhere, and it should be built not only to Szolnok, but also afterwards. It would be very good to know what the future will be in this regard, and perhaps the budget could contain something about it by 2017. The other is about the disappearance of the National Health Insurance Fund, OEP. Here, as far as I can see, there is no reorganization of the OEP, so I do not see the lines that would justify the disappearance of the OEP, either at the Hungarian Treasury or at the Ministry of Human Resources. So, from a budgetary point of view, will it be OEP in 2017 or will it not be OEP? Thank you very much.
u2016-05-11-200	Congressman Mihály Witzmann, Fidesz, in two minutes.
u2016-05-11-201	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. I would like to serve as my fellow Member, Joshua, with some answers that I have addressed. I think that if we say that family tax preferences, family subsidies, VAT cuts, wage increases, this is not about the wealthy, this is about everyone, we may agree on that. I believe that MEPs in the opposition group of the Socialists must express criticisms as an opposition, as is the job of all opposition parties in relation to the work of the ruling party, including the budget, but the facts are really stubborn. So I think that, more carefully with criticism, when, in all macroeconomic indicators, when comparing the performance of socialist governments with the performance of the current civilian government, I really do not want to quote the sky and earth analogy quoted by Erik Bánki now, but there is indeed a huge difference. In economic growth alone, during the Bajnai government, I remember minus 7 percent, and now there is regular economic growth of 2-3 percent. With regard to the general government deficit, it was above 9 percent under the socialists, and every year the government has been able to keep it below 3 percent since 2010. Employment increased from 3.7 million to 4.3. But these are common successes, and I think that my fellow Members in all the political groups of Parliament should be pleased, as I am sure they are. Unemployment has fallen from 12 percent to nearly 6 percent, or government debt has been mentioned above, record low inflation, industrial production and consumption are expanding, as you have acknowledged, my fellow Member, it has been growing steadily for a year or a half, month after month. Let's be happy about this. One interesting thing about immigration, although it does not belong to the budget, I am glad that the Socialist Party finally recognises that there is such a thing, because not so long ago, a year ago, they said that this is a false problem created by Fidesz; now they say that there is one, and you are pro-immigration. Thank you very much. [[Dr. István Józsa: No, no, the opposite! Mihály Witzmann: Yes, quite the opposite, correct, missed a no.]]
u2016-05-11-202	No way! I am very pleased with all kinds of debates, such as Mr Józsa, you have 1 minute 29 seconds to explain this.
u2016-05-11-203	Yes, the last one, so we're not pro-immigration, we're on the side of humane case management and assistance. It is, of course, a pleasure for us to see the country's economic result, but I would like to draw attention to the fact that the country's results must be measured to the potential. In 2008-2009 there was a global economic crisis, with a six-month result highlighted by minus 7 percent [[Mihály Witzmann: I was talking about 2006, sorry.]] The last quarter of 2009 and the first quarter of 2010 have already shown positive GDP, so you have taken over the economy on a growing path. The average increase in their last five years was 1.7 percent, and I wanted to point out from the family tax reduction that as well as the one-key tax, family tax relief, 80% of the savings are made by those affected, the most earning 20 percent. Of course, this is also a positive one, and I just said that this does not serve social justice, so I urge you to adopt our proposals in this direction and take action. Thank you, Mr. President.
u2016-05-11-204	Thank you very much. State Secretary Péter Benő Banai asked for the floor on behalf of the government. Here you go.
u2016-05-11-205	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. I will try to be brief in this late or, in an early hour, and allow me to give my positive impression on your comments and comments today that I see that, by the end of the day, the opposition also recognises in many areas that the 2017 draft budget bill represents a step forward from this year. The contributions made to the budget, I think, have been examined in three aspects. One aspect was the structure of the budget, the timing of its negotiations, the second aspect is the economic policy sheet and the overall economic policy which sets out the figures for the 2017 budget, and the third aspect is what this 2017 budget bill means for everyday life. As far as the first aspect is concerned, I think that the discussion at the spring session can strengthen predictability and stability, which is often mentioned, not only for families in Hungary, for businesses, but also for the real economy and for the broad players in the financial market. This predictability is confirmed by these real economic and money market investors, and I believe that this stability has also contributed to, for example, the decline in the yield levels of sovereign debt in the last year and in recent months. With regard to the structure of the budget, I am pleased that Mr Józsa, too, I say, appreciates as a positive value the sharing of operational and stockpiling expenditure. [[2.10]] I repeat, the structure, the structure in which the government presents the zero payout for operating expenditure, points out that the state's revenue is fully financed, that the deficit results only from investment, and that spending on investment is macroeconomicly positive and that it will be profitable in terms of employment. I would like to turn to the second aspect, the macroeconomic aspect. I do not want to repeat the figures, Mr Mihály Witzmann recalled precisely the figures that characterize the Hungarian economy from recent years. Let me quote Secretary-General Gurria, the Secretary-General of the OECD, who, when presenting the OECD report on Hungary last Friday, said that it is no longer a question that the budget is in order, it is no longer a question that public debt is falling. Indeed, in this statement it was also stated that there was a considerable amount of work to be done to get back the credibility of budgetary policy. I do not want to repeat the figures of the past, but these figures were also included in the fact that everyone had very serious reservations about fiscal policy, and I value as a very serious success that not only this international organisation, but that it considers it beyond all analytical questions that the deficit will be below 3 percent in 2017 and the coming years. It has also been said that this 2.4 percent deficit target shows an election budget. If we look at the facts again or look out for Europe, I do not think that a 2.4 percent deficit level should be assessed as a deficit level under the electoral budget. However, there is no doubt that this deficit level is rising, let us say, compared to this year's 2% rate, in order to take positive action, in my view, on everyday life, which is about tax reduction and home creation. With regard to this third aspect, I must once again state that I consider it a step forward today that it is no longer a question of whether there is an additional resource for health, which is well founded on education. We can also say that, in virtually all areas, we can count on additional expenditures, we also have resources for sectoral wage developments, there will also be significant additional resources to support our fellow nations living across the border, and there is also a real chance of increasing support for our fellow nationalities within the border in 2017, just like in previous years. I therefore think that after today, overall, we will be able to report on a budget that strengthens stability with spring planning, with reserves it will provide security to prevent unforeseen risks and demonstrate the areas, operational and investment areas that the state intends to provide. I think it proves that additional resources and tax cuts have economic coverage and that next year's budget can be said to be a budget for tax cuts and home creation while preserving macroeconomic stability. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-05-11-206	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, I will ask if anyone else wishes to take the opportunity to speak. [[No one's reporting.]] As no, the general debate will be adjourned and resumed from 8 a.m. Dear Parliament, We are now at the end of the debate on our agenda today, and now we are going to speak after the agenda. After the agenda, Mr Varga Simeon, a Bulgarian nationalist spokesperson, asked for a speech with the title of the Bulgarian Orthodox Church in Hungary. Here you go.
u2016-05-11-207	Thank you, Mr President, for the floor. Уважаеми господин Председател, Уважаеми Народно Събрание! Позволете ми да ви приздравяот името на Българите в Унгария и involving моето име. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Allow me, on behalf of the Bulgarians in Hungary and myself, to welcome you. The Church of Bulgarian Nationalities celebrates the 100th anniversary of the operation of the Orthodox Church in Hungary on 10-11-12 May 2016. The exercise of the faith of the Bulgarian community in Hungary, as well as the preservation of church holidays, the passing on and survival of our Christian roots may be one of the most important tasks in today's changing and rushing world. It is important for us that the 100-year-old activity of the Bulgarian Orthodox Church in Hungary should be included in our history. In the framework of our Jubilee celebration, we remember the Bulgarian ancestors arriving in Hungary, who have not forgotten their traditions in their new country, their deeds, their faith inherited and live on today. Who wouldn't remember the vegetable stands of Bulgarian gardeners, their excellent products, the irrigation of vegetables? Hungary, the new country, has also helped to practice the religious life of the Bulgarian community, has accepted and accepted all that still holds the Bulgarians together in Hungary to this day. In 1916, the Bulgarian church was founded in Lónyay Street and the first Orthodox chapel was consecrated here. The chapel proved to be narrow for the growing Bulgarian minority, so the Bulgarian Association of Hungary initiated the construction of the church. The Székesfehérváros donated land to the Bulgarians in 1930 to achieve their goals. Then they began to build the church on Száváhíd Street, which was completed a year later. The costs of the construction were entirely covered by the Hungarian Bulgarians, and 70,000 of their donations were collected. With the construction of the Orthodox church, the central Ferencváros became the cultural and spiritual center of the Bulgarian minority. The creator of the church was Aladár Árkay, the great architect of the century. The design was modelled by several prominent churches in Bulgaria, including the famous Alexander Nevski Cathedral in Sofia and the church in Bachkovo. Aladár Árkay has designed a three-ship, Byzantine-based, dome prayer house, in which we can find the facilities of the Orthodox liturgy. The church is of particular architectural value, since it is not only the only Byzantine-style building in Budapest, but also the westernmost gate of the Bulgarian Orthodox Church. The church is the embodiment of the union of Bulgarians in Hungary, a symbol of a living, active minority. The historic monument is also the centre of the Central and Western European Diocese of the Bulgarian Orthodox Church. The church bears the names of the saints of the Bulgarian Church, the creators of the Slavic Scriptures, Saint Cyril and Methodius, who were consecrated by the Roman Catholic Church as patrons of Europe. Our past, present and future are determined by common roots. The history of our people connects us with a thousand threads that our faith is a sure link. This link helped Bulgarians settle in their new country to preserve their identity. The Bulgarian church, founded a hundred years ago, fed on love, friendship, acceptance and faith, so that the tiny seed planted had an unwavering root. It is no coincidence that the symbol of the Bulgarians in Hungary is the dual-rooted tree, which faithfully illustrates the attachment to the motherland in the land of the new homeland. Dear Parliament, Yesterday, the joy of the God-protected flock of the venerated clergy of the western and Central European diocese is even more complete, because at his first official visit we can welcome the head of the Bulgarian Orthodox Church, his Holiness Neofit Bulgarian Patriarch, since the election of the church's magistrate. His Holiness is not only here to bring us the blessing of our church, but also to share with us the special joy of our divinely protected diocese and especially the Church of St Cyril and Methodius in Budapest today. Dear Parliament, As the closing part of the Jubilee celebration, I considered it important to share my thoughts with you. As a Bulgarian-rooted man, I stand here in Parliament, and I can even speak in my mother tongue. It is a great thing, an eloquent example of our language and customs being different, but our common past and faith strengthen unity. Благодаря завашето внимание! Thank you for your attention.
u2016-05-11-208	Thank you very much. We wish you all the best. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speech after the agenda. Thank you for your work. Parliament will resume its session at 8 a.m. Meeting day's closed. Good night, everyone. [[Meeting ended at 2:20 p.m.]]
