u2016-11-21-0	[[The people in this room stand up and greet the voters' community. When the chairman of the meeting takes his seat, the people in the room will sit down.]] Ladies and gentlemen, The 23rd day of the autumn session of the Parliament is hereby opened. I would like to inform you that István Tiba and Mr Dezső Believer will be in charge of the meeting. Welcome to our guests and to all those who monitor our work. Dear Parliament, KDNP's representative, István Hollik, applied for a pre-scheduled speech for the wage increase. It's an address. Congressman's got the floor.
u2016-11-21-1	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Dear House, In 2010, when the Hungarian people commissioned the Fidesz-KDNP government to lead the country, unemployment was 12%. Over 200,000 people lost their jobs in the last eight years. Therefore, one of our most important objectives was to create 1 million jobs in 10 years, so that every Hungarian person who can work could. We are also meeting this objective on a pro rata basis, as in the last six years, 600 thousand people have found jobs and are now supporting their family from their work. Today, in many regions of the country, the retention of workers is a challenge for employers and a lack of skilled workers. In my opinion, the government recognised in good time that this problem could be addressed by a large-scale wage increase, which is why it started negotiations with employees and employers' representatives. As you know, no agreement has yet been reached in these discussions. Therefore, we - the KDNP and the Fidesz fractions - ask the government to continue negotiating and do everything possible to enable a significant wage increase in the competition sector to start next year and also in 2018. We support the government's proposal to continue with the tax cuts for wage increases, as the government has a strong tool to get the companies of the competition sector to raise their wages, and this is a policy for tax reductions. That is why we support the government's idea of making it a single digit in Europe, i.e. reducing corporate tax to 9 percent. Mór Jókai once said that only those who see where we started knew how far we went. It is therefore important to say that this has not always been the case, since Balliberal governments were not in favour of tax reductions and even carried out a series of tax increases. As one of their first measures, family tax relief was abolished in 2002, personal income tax was increased, and although VAT reductions were promised, they did the opposite. This increased the revenue of the State, but they could not once keep the budget deficit below 3 per cent in eight years and the government debt increased by more than 30 per cent. It was the socialist economic miracle. As a result of this policy, the country was on the verge of bankruptcy by 2010. On the other hand, Fidesz-KDNP has always been in favour of tax reductions, because the tax reduction policy leaves more money than people, and businesses can take a step forward. Only tax cuts can boost the economy, not tax increases and cuts. Therefore, since 2010, significant tax reductions have been made. From 2011 we reduced corporate tax from 19 percent to 10 percent up to HUF 500 million tax base. So far, with the benefits of the job protection action, we have left HUF 450 billion in domestic businesses, and we have abolished many small taxes. We have reduced personal income tax to less than half, from 32% to 15 percent, introduced and year after year broadened family tax incentives. We're making tax cuts. We have reduced the VAT on pork and the most important food next year, and we have radically reduced the tax on housing from 27 percent to 5 percent. Since taxes have been falling, Hungary has increased, the economy has taken a long-term growth path, since Hungary's GDP growth has been double the EU average in recent years. In addition, while the EU's public debt is increasing, Hungary is falling. Employment is increasing and wages are rising. We therefore support further tax reductions. We believe that the tax cuts offered by the government will further relieve the burden on employers, so that wages can continue to rise. We consider it particularly important that the minimum wage increase be as high as possible, since about one in five employees earn minimum wage. We consider it equally important that the minimum wage for skilled workers, also known as the guaranteed minimum wage, is significantly increased. This is important because the economy, domestic companies and the population need good and well-paid professionals. For this reason, the KDNP and the Fidesz fraction are asking the government to continue negotiations and continue to fight for wage increases. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-11-21-2	I give the floor to State Secretary Csaba Dömötör. Here you go.
u2016-11-21-3	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Before we explore the issue of wage increases, we should indeed recall where we started when the current government took office. In 2010, Greece and I were mentioned on the same page, and the country was a thin hair from the financial and economic collapse. That's where we started. There has been an excessive deficit procedure against us for a long time, which is no wonder, as there has been an example that the budget deficit has licked 10 percent from the bottom, but since then the joint efforts have brought results. The civilian government has not only stabilised public finances, but has also launched an action to protect jobs, with which we have not only been able to protect jobs, but also to increase their numbers in substance. The economy is now stable, the country is in the category recommended for all credit rating agencies to invest, and the number of employees has increased by over 680,000 since 2010. [[13.10]] This also means that unemployment has fallen below 5%, I could say that in 26 years, not as many people have worked in Hungary as they do now. The fact that the economy is stable also allows the government to increasingly focus on wage increases. This process has been going on for some time, which is why real earnings have increased by more than 7 percent in the first eight months of this year. The increase in real wages has been unbroken for more than four years. This real wage increase, which I mentioned, is also due to the wage increase programmes that have already been launched. Just to mention a few: Attendings' wages grow at two paces by 207 thousand forints, while nurses have 65 percent. Residents' basic wages will increase by HUF 50,000 from November 2017, teachers will be able to pay 50 percent more in five years, higher education workers and researchers will receive a 27 percent increase in wages until 2018. The police career model also continued, which represents a 50 percent wage increase for law enforcement workers. The salary of district workers increased by about 30 percent this summer, followed by an increase in the wages of government officials in January. These are steps that are necessary but not sufficient in themselves. The government's goal is that the years ahead will bring even greater wage increases for Hungarian families. This requires a significant wage increase in the competitive sector, which is why we need a large, comprehensive agreement between employers, workers and the government. These negotiations are already taking place and hopefully will be concluded soon. The government's position is that the minimum wage and the minimum wage for skilled workers must be increased as much as possible. For its part, the government intends to help with this increase in wages with a large tax reduction programme: a tax reduction for wage increases. We think that this is the best way to increase wages and keep entrepreneurs competitive. All in all, this House, we can say that Hungary is now growing stronger, and the measures that have just been listed are proof of this. These are steps that can rightly count on the support of all parliamentary parties, regardless of world-view differences, so we expect their support in the future. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-11-21-4	Now we have Daniel Z. Carpathian, representative of Jobbik. The title of his speech before the agenda:. How long will the Hungarian wages stay in the depths? Here you go.
u2016-11-21-5	Mr President, Dear House, I will make an attempt to bring back my pro-government fellow Members from this government fairy tale, which has just been outlined here, because this morning it has been brutally voted off in the Judicial Committee, and they have not even allowed to negotiate a better proposal to stop the influx of rich migrants, and while Brussels is outrageously threatening the introduction of 1300 persons by quota, you have allowed more than double of this amount to date by the settlement bond business, subject to negligible screening. So for you, it's still more important to get dirty money, the right of establishment, the betrayal of the country than to get security for this country. So we call on you to support your own fundamental law-modifying proposal, to which we bettermen have added only one sentence, the one that kills your residency bond business. And the thing is, if you don't have the guts to deal with this, it's gonna tell you a lot about you. But it is a fact that the Hungarian economy is drowning, and without a comprehensive wage increase in your fairy tale, Hungary is not expected to slow down the emigration spiral, and you are still making it dependent on the seasonal offers of Western European car manufacturers and other companies, how the Hungarian economy is performing; it has still not been possible to get this country on its feet, and you have not had enough six years to do so. We must say that the most difficult ones could be helped in a meaningful way, and there would be a budget space for this, but you did not have the courage to do so. The first and most important issue of these would perhaps be the tax exemption of the minimum wage, which was tax-free in the past. Then you came - and what happened? People in the toughest line were hit with another load. There have been over 60 new types of tax or tax increases in Hungary since 2010, and we must also say that it is the responsibility of Viktor Orbán and his members of the government that, in exchange for the benefits granted to multi-company companies, they did not require a pay cut, so they actively contributed to the continuation of the outflow of skilled workers. However, when you give discounts for infrastructure purposes, when you provide job creation grants - often generously - to foreign multi-enterprises, you give the entire wage bill, say, for the one-and-a-half or two-year recruitment period, while these companies undertake to employ the workforce they employed. At the moment, therefore, we support certain companies in the German luxury industry, and it is no coincidence that in the case of Audi and Mercedes, these workers now require a 55,000 wage increase in terms of Audi, because they see that the fair performance of Hungarian workers is not being paid in Hungary; you are artificially keeping wages low, because the mania of Viktor Orbán and his team is that cheap labour is the key to Hungarian competitiveness. That is why they want to turn Hungary into a assembly plant, and they have done so largely, from a country of basically agricultural nature, and that is why we are where we are. In order to talk about an even greater burden on the most difficult people, you have set an EU record: 27 percent VAT, taxes on the poor, hit the hardest people in an impertinent manner, and then stand up István Hollik and start talking to us about reducing the VAT content of basic articles. Congressman, this affects 5-6-7 percent of the average consumer basket you're talking about. They should come up with a reduction in the value of VAT in the whole range of basic foods and in the area of child-rearing products, but you are cowards, and you would have a budget space for this, with a recent budget adjustment of HUF 400-500 billion. [[13.20]] There would have been plenty of more VAT cuts. If we look at how payments in euro are made in Hungary in relation to the situation you have created, we can see that we are missing even at regional level. At the moment, even a third of the wealthy cannot afford an unplanned expense, let's say a larger health expense. At the moment, 37% of Hungarians cannot afford even daily meat consumption. This is the Hungary you created, this is your fairy tale. That is why we call on you to do everything possible to ensure a comprehensive wage increase by exempting the minimum wage, requiring wage cuts from those who receive unjustified discounts, by entering into a strategic partnership with Hungarian small and medium-sized enterprises, and by reducing the tax on the poor and the VAT level of 27 per cent. Let me breathe into this national economy, because what you created here is, for now, a multi-national paradise and serving foreign interests. Thank you for the opportunity. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2016-11-21-6	I give the floor to Secretary Peter Cseresnyés. Here you go.
u2016-11-21-7	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, Honourable Congressman, I think I can tell you that you said this speech in the absence of responsibility. I mean, the lack of responsibility, when you're not in a decision-making and action situation, you can easily ask the government for things that couldn't be done. By criticizing my fellow Member, István Hollik, I would definitely like to join him. Let's see where we started. It seems that his memory was too short to go six or seven or eight years earlier, at a time when Hungary was in a bankruptcy situation, and we did not have to talk about how to raise wages, but how to balance the Hungarian economy, the Hungarian budget, and how to put the Hungarian economy on a developing path, how to facilitate it. In recent years, this government has succeeded, despite the fact that it has had to experience very, very difficult times and years. Today, thank God, we have reached a time when we can talk about it, and you can talk about when there will be a significant increase in wages throughout society for all those who make a living from work. How did that happen? Let's remember the last few years. A significant increase in employment has been created in recent years. This means that nearly 700 thousand more people are working on the Hungarian labour market today than they were working in 2010. There has been a significant increase in the number of people in the competitive sphere. Despite what you say, this has happened, in the competition sector, I understand the players and employers of the domestic competition, where the workers were most employed. You should be aware of the facts, Congressman, and in that case you would not say what you said in your speech. Thus, there has been a significant increase in the number of people employed. This means that the economy has evolved and there has been a significant competition in the labour market for well-trained professionals, which has led to a rise in labour wages, labour costs, and in recent years, as the Secretary of State, Mr Csaba Dömötör, has said from the mouth, there has been a significant increase in wages in terms of real wages, the purchasing value of wages, over the last three years. This means that from 2013 until the end of 2015, there has been about a 15% increase in real wages as a result of the past period, which, in my view, is certainly significant, and over the past year, there has been a significant, even more dynamic, real wage increase when the real wage increase was more than 7 percent. And if the family tax allowance is included, there is a 23-24 percent real wage increase, i.e. more than 23 percent in the area of wages. Of course, this was also triggered by the significant increase in the minimum wage over the past period. The minimum wage has increased by about 50 percent since 2010. This was a major increase last year. From the beginning of this year, the real value of the minimum wage increased by more than 7 percent. Thus, a significant real wage increase has also occurred in the case of the minimum wage over the past period. As has already been said, and as I look at the speeches before the agenda, it will probably also be said that the VKF negotiations are now under way, where participants in the competition sector are discussing the extent to which the minimum wage should be raised, the minimum wage and the guaranteed minimum wage that will have a significant impact on market wages, because we should not forget that the wages on the market are not determined by the State but by market players. The result of the agreement between employers and employees is the wage that the employee is going to work for. The truth of this agreement is that in places where people work for lower wages, a migration to jobs in Hungary has started, where they pay more to do the work in question. This also results in a certain increase in wages that I have mentioned, which has occurred both in the competitive sector and not only in the public sector over the past period, and this real wage increase is expected to continue in the next period. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-11-21-8	Mr Bertalan Tóth, on behalf of the MSZP, also applied for a speech before the agenda. It's an address. Here you go.
u2016-11-21-9	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, For years, we have been saying that Hungarian people are becoming more and more concerned with a secure livelihood. For years, we have been saying that Hungarian people are forced to work for extremely low salaries under increasingly bad conditions. Whoever can do it will go abroad, even to Slovakia. We have heard the hundreds of thousands of numbers here, but I would like to say that hundreds of thousands of people are not working on the Hungarian labour market, but in England, Germany or Austria. We've been saying for years that we need a raise. What we're seeing now is that the Urizing Fidesz elite has come to realize that there's a need for a raise. I can tell you that I wish you good morning. Time to wake up, say, two and a half years ago. In the last two and a half years, our faction has proposed a substantial and immediate salary increase seven times. But you, respected elite, have not even been willing to negotiate these initiatives. But if you've finally recognized the problem we've been saying for years, then you should realize that your solution proposal is wrong, because the Urizing Fidesz elite's proposal doesn't help the working people, it helps the multinationals. You sided with the multinationals instead of representing the Hungarian people. It is not the corporate income tax of multinationals that must be reduced, but the taxes on labour, so that the minimum wage increase does not involve mass redundancies. Reducing the burden on work would reduce migration and would be more socially beneficial. While governments in the region value work better elsewhere, in Hungary the Urizing Fidesz elite is on the side of the rich and speculators, taxing people from wages and salaries to reduce the taxes of the rich from the tax forints taken from them. There is no other country where 35 percent of the minimum wage is taken away by the state from the workers. Why is the same catering, automotive, engineering and nursing skills more appreciated abroad than in Hungary? The answer is clear: the difference is in government performance. During the six years of the elite government of the Urizing Fidesz, we have reached the point that Hungary's competitiveness has been at an unprecedented low point. Among the Visegrád countries, we have become the hosts [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: Only three of us have qualified!]] And the government's only goal is to catch up with Slovakia in five or six years. Ladies and gentlemen, The economic policy of the Urizing Fidesz elite favours the top 10-20 percent, so Fidesz today is the government of the minority in Hungary, and Viktor Orbán is the prime minister of the minority. On the other hand, we socialists want primarily to represent those who live hard from their work, people who are socially vulnerable, pensioners and women, and we offer real solutions to their real problems. For a safe living, we have a four-point proposal. 1. Let the minimum wage be 100,000 HUF net, reduce employers' contributions, make no difference between men and women. 2. Let's go back to the previous pension system because the 0.9 percent pension increase is humiliating, outrageous and unacceptable. But what Viktor Orbán has now put into it, the 1.6 percent pension increase is equally outrageous. If we were to return - and this is what we are proposing - to the previous indexation system, we would now have to make a pension increase of more than 3 percent in Hungary. [[13.30]] Our third point is to reduce energy prices. No one pays more for the energy than it costs. After all, we can see that prices on the international market have been decreasing over the past period. Today Hungarian people pay more for energy than it costs. Point 4 is to continue to reduce VAT on basic foods, as this helps the fallen, helping workers who are now in a vulnerable situation. Ladies and gentlemen, A Hungarian Prime Minister once said that prosperity can be created not with enemies, but with common goals. Let this be the common goal of making a sure living available to all Hungarians! I ask you to support our proposals for our common future, Hungary. [[György Balla: For the Republic.]] Thank you for your attention.
u2016-11-21-10	Once again, Csaba Dömötör has the floor. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2016-11-21-11	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Chief of Staff, Your speech was called "Good morning." If I recall correctly. I would like to ask you not to wish us good morning, but good morning to you to face the consequences of your governance. Because when you were, you doubled unemployment, tripled the price of gas, raised personal income tax, even levied employer taxes, took a month's wages from civil servants and a month's pension from the elderly, abolished the home creation program, which is why it had to be restarted a few months ago, and drove Hungarian families into foreign exchange loans, hundreds of thousands of people were trapped in debt traps. [[There are constant interruptions from the lines of the MSZP.]] But the most serious consequence of your government was that it was worth living on welfare more than it was at work. That had to change. Allow me to say that we are listening to your speech before many agendas here, and for many times we feel that, in the absence of anything to be said, they are actually cutting. One wonders what the reason is. Then he concludes that the reason for this is certainly that the left-wing casting has started again, the usual left-wing voting show has started again, the limitless fight for positions. Why do we say that? We say that because we hear again that the MSZP wants joint candidates with Ferenc Gyurcsány. In the capital they could already agree on the joint candidates, but according to some press reports, the national cooperation is already well outlined. I wonder what the people in this room would say about this joint list, if they knew about it at all. Others would like a national pre-election, and the two things in common are that Ferenc Gyurcsány has a decisive word about who the candidate will be. So all in all, not much has changed in the MSZP, learned nothing and forgotten nothing. This is also not good for the left, especially if even the party president does not rule out that the MSZP will cease to exist after 2018. Whether it will be so will, of course, be decided by the electorate. In the meantime, let me talk about some developments that have a major impact on Hungarian families; you referred to them. These are things that are more important than socialist flashes. I would like to inform you that there are more than 600,000 people working than when the socialists governed. It is also a fact that, in addition to more jobs, wages have also started to increase, teachers and law enforcement wage increases continue, more money is paid in district offices and those working at the government window. And from the left, I'll say it again, all he had to do was take a month's wages from a lot of civil servants and take a month's pension from the elderly. To mention a priority sector, health care professionals, as mentioned here, will receive a salary increase of HUF 207 thousand, while nurses will receive 65%. In comparison: when the left steered, HUF 600 billion was withdrawn from health care. Perhaps the MSZP is not indifferent to the way in which real claims are made in Hungary, and you have also referred to this. Therefore, the fact that wages increased by more than 7 percent in Hungary during the first 8 months is not undeserving. At the same time, we know that despite these results, there is still a lot to be done. This is why the government has set up further significant wage increases. We want to achieve a large, comprehensive agreement between employers, workers and the government. This agreement can help to make a significant wage increase in Hungary in the coming years. As part of this, the government proposes a significant minimum wage and minimum wage increase for skilled workers. Employee taxes may also decrease. The government will therefore help raise wages by reducing taxes. With a tax cut for a wage increase, that's our goal. These plans, in terms of minimum wages, could mean that the minimum wage could almost double compared to socialist governance. The importance of this, I believe, cannot be denied either by the socialists. If those who contribute to this country's growth by their daily work count even a little for the left, they will put aside their party reflections and support these measures. I would ask you to relax a little between the battles for positions and help us to strengthen Hungary. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-11-21-12	Speaking also before the agenda, Mrs Bernadett Szél, on behalf of the LMP:. The unfair tax system of Fidesz is an obstacle to strong wage increases. It's an address. Congresswoman's got the floor.
u2016-11-21-13	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, This morning, many of us heard on the radio that Prime Minister Viktor Orbán said that the work-based society was successful. I can say that once again it has been proven that the LMP sees it as a completely different success than the Prime Minister. We cannot consider it a success that hundreds of thousands of Hungarian countrymen had to flee abroad. We do not consider it a success at all that 8-10 percent of women in childbearing age already live, have children and raise them abroad. We do not consider it a success at all that Fidesz installs foreign migrant workers organised and massed in order to be able to do the work that Hungarians are no longer doing because they are abroad. There is a shortage of labour in the Hungarian economy that there will also be parliamentary debate on it; the entire opposition supported it, and thank you for it. We are going to talk about this on Wednesday, how this is an integral part of the wage crisis. In the meantime, we live in a country where the minimum wage is the minimum wage, so to put it this way, he's watching from the bottom. And even if you raise it now, you'll still be below it. Two thirds of Hungarians work under the average wage. They are the ones who are the victims of the single-key tax system. In Fidesz, you have created a country in which Hungarian people work and work, but you do not make a living on your salary. Fidesz has become equal to the wage crisis. And Prime Minister will go on the radio and tell you what a success he has put on the table here. By the way, this is strange, because if this is such a success that you have done for six years, then why did Prime Minister speak of a turnaround at another conference? Let us talk about the minimum wage because Mr Orbán said that the government can fundamentally influence Hungarian wages through the minimum wage. Well, if this is the attitude of a Prime Minister, I have to say that this Prime Minister is not ambitious. For example, what about workers who earn above the minimum wage? According to your plans, these people, who earn above the minimum wage, won't take me home a penny more after the big ups. We should finally realise that if the saying that fish reeks of its head is true, then I think it is also true that the barrier to radical wage setting is nothing more than the single-key tax system itself in Hungary. It also turned out this morning that the Prime Minister considered the multi-key tax system to be a barrier to performance. It is very interesting, because on 9 February 2010, on the website of hvg.hu, it was possible to read that Viktor Orbán said that a multi-key tax system was needed. He was so sure of the campaign, Prime Minister, in his thoughts that he justified why. Orbán: we need a multi-key tax system - this is the title of the article. I quote the newspaper: The question of whether they are thinking in a single-key tax system, i.e. Fidesz, said that if the tax system does not take into account how many people live on the amount requested, how many people are kept, it will never be fair. "Therefore, Prime Minister said that there cannot be a key, there must be several categories," said the Prime Minister. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: This is family taxation.]] So what happened in Fidesz after the campaign, that as soon as they came to government, they started doing the exact opposite of what they were campaigning with? The Prime Minister spoke of several keys, here he is,. Orbán: we need a multi-key tax system, 9 February 2010. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: Depends on the number of people, it's family taxation.]] Compared to this, they're on the wheel, and here's the key! Dear Secretary of State, Instead of yelling at me here, you should ask the question to 2.5 million Hungarian citizens who have been paying more taxes since you were on the government, whether they are happy about the single-key tax system. Because the measurements show that it doesn't. Two thirds of Hungarians think that the single-key tax system is as bad as it is, as Viktor Orbán thought in 2010. These people, 2.5 million Hungarians, pay an average of up to 50,000 forints a year since Fidesz-KDNP governs. On the other hand, Possibly Other would apply three rates of taxation. With us, who is on a minimum wage, he would earn 24,000 forints more, who is on average, would earn 37,000 forints more, but even those who earn twice the average wage would be better. [[13.40]] Of course, adding that we wouldn't be handing out to our friends or letting the offshore Barons flourish in Hungary, that money would go to education and health care. So I urge you to stop talking about how our tax system is not good. That's what they say, they don't even notice the splinters in someone else's eyes, and they don't notice the beams in your eyes. Fidesz is the government of tax increases, because many millions of Hungarians have been wronged by your government; of course, your offshore friends are not; those people are living in Hungary as much as they were before Fidesz. [[István Szilárd Németh: Now, half a minute!]] The wage negotiations will continue tomorrow. I would like to state that we see them on the wrong track, not on the right questions. There is now a debate on how to compensate businesses for wage increases. And we say that we need to talk about how a fair tax system can be introduced in Hungary, where a person who earns under minimum living does not pay taxes. For those who cannot afford bread and milk in this country should not be taxed as much as those who drive with Mercedes and God knows what kind of cars. So from here on out, I can tell you that you should be ashamed if you only want to pay the Hungarian citizens with small change.
u2016-11-21-14	Again, I give the floor to Peter Cseresnyés. Here you go.
u2016-11-21-15	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and Gentlemen, It might also be worthwhile to organise a debate day on how and who is talking here in Parliament, and to define success, to define the concept of success. It is difficult, however, because we have spoken several times, and perhaps we have argued with each other in Parliament on this subject, because she always speaks as if yesterday or today was the beginning of Hungary's history, or yesterday or today, an economic process has started, which she is criticizing. And the reason I'm forced to do so is because every speech you make is to refer you back to where we started again. What was in 2010? What was the state from which we came to the point where you are now bravely saying in Parliament that we are being called on to do something, or expected to do something, because if this government hadn't been ruling in 2010, or if this government hadn't been ruling since 2010 and hadn't been pursuing the economic policy that you did, then we might not have to talk about how much we should have raised people's wages, but we should be discussing far worse situations and situations. But just to let you know where we started, let me repeat some of the numbers to you again. There were around 3 million 800 thousand people employed in 2010, which was about 55 percent of the Hungarian working age population; now, at the moment, there is almost 70 percent employment and 4.4 million people are working in Hungary. This means that there are 680,000 more people working on the labour market, and about 460-470 000 of them in the competitive sector [[Dr. Ákos Hadházy intervenes.]] They were able to get a job. No, Congressman, not in London, you like to stress this, not in the labour market in London; in the Hungarian labour market, statistics say that, it's too bad you're shouting that because you're wrong. This shows that they are slipping in each of their speeches. Thus, a significant part of the Hungarian workforce was able to work on the competitive market. After the Hungarian economy recovered, among other things, thanks to the fact that this government pursued a completely different tax policy than the previous governments, the process of raising wages could also be started. Since 2013, wages have been constantly rising in Hungary in real terms, and this is the most important thing that everyone is interested in, how they can spend the money they bring home to their family, how much they can buy in the store, in the market, and it is constantly valued and worth more and more. As I said in the previous speech, wages have grown by more than 23 percent in real terms since 2010. That's what's worth more to people, the average wage to people. If we look at only the last year, there has been a real wage increase in Hungary that has increased the wages of everyone by one month. This means that real wages have increased significantly by more than 7 percent. And this increase in wages is expected to increase in the further period. This is also demonstrated by the offer made by the government to the competitive sphere and to the workers' table, which set a minimum of a substantial minimum wage and a guaranteed minimum wage, professional wages. This offered a 15-25 percent increase next year, and the following year offered an 8-12 percent increase in the two categories, so - and here I would like to reject any kind of wording and accusations that accuse this government of tax increases - that there could be a reduction in contributions, a significant reduction in contributions. So, not only would the government put a tax increase on the table and want to introduce a tax increase, but also a significant reduction in taxes. This has been done in the last year, from the beginning of this year, with regard to personal income tax, there will be a significant tax reduction in terms of the reduction of contributions. This means that 4 percentage points, or perhaps even a little more, will be reduced by 4 percentage points next year, and a further 2 percentage points reduction will be made in the following year. This actually helps companies to compete, as the burden on wages is reduced so that they can increase wages, so that the government can indirectly support wage increases with the help of tax policy; indirectly, as I said, because it has a direct role in setting and establishing the minimum wage and the guaranteed minimum wage. This policy, this series of negotiations with employers and employees, can lead to continuous contacts with the fact that wages are constantly increasing in real terms over the past period, and this is expected to continue. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2016-11-21-16	Lajos Kósa, the leader of the Fidesz Group, asked for the floor in the list of speeches before the agenda:. Molnár-Vona-Gyurcsány axis? It's an address. Congressman's got the floor.
u2016-11-21-17	Mr. President. Dear House, Since the change of regime, extremist organizations have been present in Hungary, but we have not taken them seriously, for a very long time it has been known that most of all, the right-wing, artificial Nazi organizations, with Uncle Potyka, Diana Bácsfi and similar figures, which correspond to the active involvement of the socialists. It cannot be taken seriously, everyone was very pleased that Hungary is a normal country, and paramilitant organisations, violent organisations, are not present in Hungary or are completely frivolous. However, the events of the past period have shown that unfortunately here we, the democratic parties of Parliament, do have a very serious responsibility and work to do. What happened in Bőny clearly showed that paramilitant organisations should be taken seriously, and, yes, action must be taken against those organisations who threaten the social set-up of Hungary, who, by the way, hold and organize weapons. And it is not enough to trust in itself that the Hungarian courts are acting as they have acted against the Hungarian Guard, as they are acting against other organisations; here we have to see if Parliament has anything to do. What happened with the many police murders is more than shocking. What's happened since the people in the organization found a real gun-armed arsenal of TEK and police personnel is more than shocking. The fact that there were armed men who were planning to kill politicians in Hungary is more than shocking. Not because political debate is not legal, not because politicians need to be loved, no, we have to argue with them, but organization, armed violence and preparation for murder are absolutely to be persecuted. And certainly there is a task, because Parliament must examine whether there is an organisation supported by parliamentary parties, either directly or through a party foundation. These need to be mapped, because if we see what we were smiling about earlier, the Hungarian National Front Line, the Outlaw Army, 64 Vármegye, similar organisations and connected to a specific faction or party of Parliament in different ways [[Dániel Z. Carpathian intervenes.]] But no acts of violence have ever been committed, we have said that this must be combated by political means. But when we see a police officer being murdered, armed, and seriously threatened by public order and public security, we do have to think. These activities should be explored and, in any event, should be prevented from receiving any funding from these organisations. [[13.50]] This is not an easy job, it must be explored by Parliament's committees, which have taken the necessary steps, and it must be made clear to everyone, including the parties to whom they have previously been linked, that they have nothing to do with these organisations. Any political party has a connection to these organizations, it excludes itself from the political community. This can't be tolerated in any normal country. [[Agnes Kunhalmi: Balds! Balds!]] Because when we see the opposition working on various key issues in terms of national security, see the recent MSZP-Jobbik-DK axis on constitutional change, it is a political issue. When we see that they refuse to take into account Hungarian security, the security interests of the Hungarian people, it can still be handled by political means. But there cannot be a party in this Parliament that has an organizational relationship with these organisations, which finances them; and if there is such a party, it does not matter what political interest different parties cooperate with this party, it must be persecuted and prohibited. In Hungary there must be order, Hungary must be a normal country [[Agnes Kunhalmi: Balds! Bald steering!]] where such violent political extremes have no place! Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-11-21-18	Once again, I give the floor to Secretary of State Csaba Dömötör.
u2016-11-21-19	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Chief of Staff, In his speech, he referred to issues which are mostly related to security. I would like to talk about two aspects of this. One is international and the other is indeed domestic. The government must do everything in its power to strengthen security, whether it is about risks from outside borders or from within borders. As regards external risks, we have talked a lot here about the serious security risks of uncontrolled migration. This is why the Brussels proposal to spread responsibility and burdens rather than to protect borders has failed, and security in Europe cannot be maintained without border protection. In this respect, too, it is inevitable that 3.3 million people gave their views in the October referendum, and 98 percent of them clearly said no to forced resettlement. They said that decisions can't be made over the heads of Hungarians in such far-reaching matters. This result obliges the government, which is why the Cabinet initiated an amendment to the Fundamental Law. The point of this amendment is that in the future, a foreign population could not be relocated to Hungary. The amendment of the basic law would therefore constitute an important security guarantee. It is even more outrageous that opposition parties did not support this amendment. Not because they saw only the possibility of a party political barbecue. They were like, "What's wrong with the government is good for them." We regret that the opposition, from the MSZP to Jobbik, has ignored the interests of the country and has ignored its own voters. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that, as it turned out at last week's EU summit on Home Affairs, the European Commission is not in its right mind to withdraw the quota package and, as has been said several times, to speed it up. In view of this, the opposition's attitude is even more irresponsible. As regards internal threats, internal risks; that is what Mr. Group leader referred to. The government has been fighting the extremist forces ever since 2010, but recently there has been indeed an event in Hungary that has never before been: the leader of an extremist group brutally killed a police officer. This case is unprecedented. What is shocking in this case is that we now know that the National Front Line has also been in contact with a Hungarian parliamentary party, organized events together, and the party president even shook hands with the son of a suspect in the police murder, where they showed up in a photo together. [[Crying from Jobbik's benches. Noise.]] We strongly reject such cooperation. [[Noise. The president has a long ring to it.]] It is totally unacceptable for a political party to keep in touch with an organization that engages in police murders. For this reason, it is indeed necessary to examine whether the laws are sufficiently strict in the event that a party is in contact with extremist groups, whether it is joint event planning or financial support. It would also be nice to hear the Left's opinion on this matter. Underneath the cute surface, we cannot allow forces to organize who hold dozens of weapons in homes illegally. One thing is certain: when it comes to security, Hungarians can rely on the government, and this is also true of external threats, as is the case with domestic extremist movements. No party policy considerations can be more important than the security of Hungary. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-11-21-20	Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speeches before the agenda. I would like to ask Mr Dezső Liberty to present the speakers who are not on the agenda.
u2016-11-21-21	Dear Parliament, Today he applied for a speech after the agenda: Ander Balázs, Jobbik. On Tuesday, the following representatives came forward before the agenda: Attila Móring József, KDNP; Ágnes Kunhalmi, MSZP; István Apáti, Jobbik; R. Benedek Sallai, LMP; Attila Tilki, Fidesz. On Tuesday he applied for a speech after the agenda: István Szávay, Jobbik; Tamás Pintér, Jobbik; Péter Hoppál, Fidesz; Zoltán Magyar, Jobbik. No one came forward after the agenda on Wednesday.
u2016-11-21-22	Dear Parliament, The agenda for our meeting starting today is coming up. We shall decide on the agenda, the duration of the meeting, the speaking time limits on the basis of a proposal put forward by the President. Parliamentary resolution on certain house rules 37. Pursuant to Article 1 (1) of the Rules of Procedure, Parliament may decide to negotiate certain items of the agenda in a time-frame. The motion put forward by the President initiates the V/12673 on the causes of labour shortages and the necessary steps. The Parliament will discuss the number of proposals in a four-hour time frame. The agenda recommendation shall include a time frame allocation. At the request of the Group of Fidesz, MSZP, Jobbik, LMP, the resolution on certain house rules is 37 Paragraph 4 states that the time frame available to the political group will be doubled in the event of the adoption of a time-frame negotiation. I would like to ask Mr István Tiba to present the motion to split the time frame.
u2016-11-21-23	Dear Parliament, The distribution of the proposed timeframe, in view of the timeframe increases, is as follows: 82 minutes for the Fidesz Group, with a doubling in total of 164 minutes; 46 minutes for the MSZP Group, with a doubling in total of 92 minutes; 41 minutes for the Jobbik Group, with a doubling in total of 82 minutes; 38 minutes for the KDNP Group; 24 minutes for the LMP Group, with a doubling in total of 48 minutes; and 9 minutes for the independent Members. The time limits provided for the factions include the 15-15 minutes lead speakers.
u2016-11-21-24	Dear Parliament, Now it's time for the decision. I therefore ask the House whether it agrees that the proposal will be dealt with in a time frame, as set out by the notary and modified by Fidesz, MSZP, Jobbik, LMP. Please vote. [[Vote.]] The proposal was adopted by 139 votes in favour, 19 against and 3 abstentions. Dear Parliament, The motion put forward by the President initiates the V/12874 on the use of EU funds for Hungary for the period 2014-2020. The Parliament will discuss the number of proposals in a four-hour time frame. The agenda recommendation shall include a time frame allocation. At the request of the Group of Fidesz, MSZP, Jobbik, LMP, the resolution on certain house rules is 37 Paragraph 4 states that the time frame available to the political group will be doubled in the event of the adoption of a time-frame negotiation. I would like to ask Mr Dezső Liberty to present the motion to split the time frame. [[14.00]]
u2016-11-21-25	Dear Parliament, The distribution of the proposed timeframe, in view of the timeframe increases, is as follows: 82 minutes for the Fidesz Group, with a doubling in total of 164 minutes; 46 minutes for the MSZP Group, with a doubling in total of 92 minutes; 41 minutes for the Jobbik Group, with a doubling in total of 82 minutes; 38 minutes for the KDNP Group; 24 minutes for the LMP Group, with a doubling in total of 48 minutes; and 9 minutes for the independent Members. The time limits provided for the factions include the 15-15 minutes lead speakers.
u2016-11-21-26	It is now time for the decision to be taken again. I therefore ask the Honourable Parliament whether it agrees that the presentation will be discussed in a time frame modified by the notary and modified by Fidesz, MSZP, Jobbik, LMP. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I note that the motion was accepted by the House by 136 votes in favour, 18 against, with three abstentions. The motion put forward by the President initiates the decision to grant men 40 years of retirement after employment, V/12901. The Parliament will discuss the number of proposals in a four-hour time frame. The agenda recommendation shall include a time frame allocation. At the request of the Jobbik and KDNP Group, the decision on certain house rules is adopted on the basis of Article 37. Paragraph 4 states that the time frame available to the political group will be doubled in the event of the adoption of a time-frame negotiation. I would like to ask Mr István Tiba to present the motion to split the time frame.
u2016-11-21-27	Dear Parliament, The distribution of the proposed timeframe, in the light of the time frame increases, is as follows: 82 minutes for the Fidesz Group; 46 minutes for the MSZP Group; 41 minutes for the Jobbik Group, which has initiated a doubling, i.e. a total of 82 minutes; 38 minutes for the KDNP Group, which has initiated a doubling, i.e. 76 minutes; 24 minutes for the LMP Group; and 9 minutes for the independent Members. The time limits provided for the factions include the 15-15 minutes lead speakers.
u2016-11-21-28	Dear Parliament, It is now time for a decision to be taken again. I ask the House whether it agrees that the proposal will be discussed in the timeframe presented by the notary and modified by Jobbik and KDNP. Please vote. [[Vote.]] By 135 votes in favour, 22 against, with 3 abstentions, the Parliament accepted the hearing of the proposal in the time frame. Dear Parliament, The motion put forward by the President initiates the V/12909 on the state of public education. The Parliament will discuss the number of proposals in a four-hour time frame. The agenda recommendation shall include a time frame allocation. At the request of the Fidesz, the MSZP and the LMP Group, the resolution on certain house rules is 37 Paragraph 4 states that the time frame available to the political group will be doubled in the event of the adoption of a time-frame negotiation. I would like to ask Mr Dezső Liberty to present the motion to split the time frame.
u2016-11-21-29	Dear Parliament, The distribution of the proposed timeframe, in the light of the timeframes, is as follows: 82 minutes for the Fidesz Group, with a doubling in total of 164 minutes; 46 minutes for the MSZP Group, with a doubling in total of 92 minutes; 41 minutes for the Jobbik Group; 38 minutes for the KDNP Group; 24 minutes for the LMP Group, with a doubling in total of 48 minutes; and 9 minutes for the independent Members. The time limits provided for the factions include the 15-15 minutes lead speakers.
u2016-11-21-30	Dear Parliament, It will be decided again. I ask the House whether it agrees that the proposal will be discussed in the timeframe presented by the notary and modified on the basis of the request of Fidesz, MSZP and LMP. Please vote. [[Vote.]] The motion for a time frame was adopted by 138 votes in favour, 19 against and 4 abstentions. Dear Parliament, I would like to inform you that the House Committee has proposed a derogation from house rules. In this he suggested that the National Assembly, V/12909 on the state of public education. V/12901 on the granting of a 40-year pension for men after employment. In the course of political debates, the House Rule 86 should be amended accordingly. § 2 to hold the political debates 14 days prior to the submission of the motions. V/12901/1 proposed a derogation from the house rules. and V/12909/1. You can get to know him on the website. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that in order to derogate from the house rules, four-fifths of the Members present need a vote in favour. So I ask the House whether it agrees to derogate from the house rules. Please vote. [[Vote.]] The House agreed to the derogation by 160 votes in favour, with one abstention, without voting against. Dear House, The Fidesz Group proposed that T/12919 amending certain laws relating to the transfer of professional and adult training tasks on Tuesday's meeting T/12899 on the amendment of the laws relating to certain school cooperatives until the closure of the general debate. Following a general discussion of the legislative proposal No. Anyone who agrees with that, please indicate by raising your hands. [[Vote.]] Thank you. I declare that the visible majority of Parliament has accepted the proposal. The Fidesz Group proposed that T/12919 amending certain laws relating to the transfer of professional and adult training tasks on Tuesday's meeting Following a general debate on the amendment of individual energy laws for price regulation purposes, the T/12923. The general debate of bill No 1 until closure. Anyone who agrees with that, please indicate by raising your hands. [[Vote.]] Thank you. I find that the visible majority of this House has accepted the proposal. The Fidesz Group also proposed that, on Tuesday's meeting, the 2003 LXXX on legal aid. T/1271 on the amendment of Act T/1271 on procedural issues and certain laws The decision on the summary amendment proposal and the final vote shall be taken as the first item on the agenda. Anyone who agrees with that, please vote by raising your hands. [[Vote.]] Thank you. I find that the visible majority of this House has accepted the proposal. The Fidesz Group also proposed that, on Wednesday's meeting, the 1997 LXVIII on the service relationship of judicial staff. Act CLXIV of 2011 on the status of the Attorney General, prosecutors and other public prosecutors and on the career of the prosecutor. T/12920 amending Act No. LXXVI of 2014 on scientific research, development and innovation. T/12928 amending Act No. Following a general discussion of the legislative proposal No. Anyone who agrees with that, vote by raising your hands. [[Vote.]] Thank you. I find that the visible majority of this House has accepted the proposal. The Fidesz Group proposed that on Wednesday's meeting T/12916 on the announcement of the Minamata Convention on Mercury T/12929 amending certain laws on the general debate of bill No 3 as the last-to-last item until closure and on the withdrawal from cultivation of properties registered as closed gardens The general debate on bill No 1 shall take place as the last item on the agenda until closure. Anyone who agrees with that, please vote by raising your hands. [[Vote.]] Thank you. I declare that the visible majority of Parliament has accepted the proposal. Dear Parliament, We are now deciding on a proposal on the agenda put forward by the President. I ask this House whether it accepts the recommendation on the agenda with the amendments adopted above. Please vote by raising your hands. [[Vote.]] Thank you. I declare that the visible majority of Parliament has adopted the agenda. [[14.10]] Dear House, In the absence of a committee agreement, we are now deciding on the Commission's discussion and decision-making of proposals. According to the proposal put forward by the President of the National Election Office, the Parliament's report on the organisation and conduct of state tasks related to the national referendum held on 2 October 2016 is B/12839. The designated committee shall be invited to take its decision. I ask the Honourable Parliament to ask the designated Judicial Committee to be invited by B/12839. for a decision to be taken on this proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The House called on the Committee by 115 votes in favour, 47 against and without abstentions. According to the proposal put forward by the President of the National Election Committee, the National Assembly reports on the activities of the National Election Committee in the national referendum held on 2 October 2016 B/12854. The designated committee shall be invited to take its decision. I will ask the Honourable Parliament whether he will ask the designated Judicial Committee to consult B/12854. for a decision to be taken on this proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] The House called on the Committee by 115 votes in favour, 47 against and without abstentions. Dear Parliament, It follows the decision of the personal proposal. I would like to ask Mr István Tiba to present the S/12986 tabled by the President. The content of the personal proposal.
u2016-11-21-31	13/2014 on the establishment of parliamentary committees, the election of its officials and members. Section 1 of the parliamentary decision is amended as follows:. The Parliament to the Committee on Budgets Árpád Velez elects Dr. Zsolt Legény (MSZP) as member of the committee. This Decision shall enter into force on the date of its adoption.
u2016-11-21-32	Dear Parliament, Now it's time to make a decision again. I ask this House whether it accepts S/12986. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Please vote. [[Vote.]] The personal proposal was adopted unanimously by the Parliament with 163 votes in favour. Dear House, Now, at 2:13 p.m., we move on to interpellation and immediate questions. [[Dr. Bertalan Tóth: Order of business!]] Here you go, Mr. Group Leader. Mr Bertalan Tóth asked for the floor on a point of order.
u2016-11-21-33	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I move that, despite the agenda that has just been adopted, the Parliament not decide on the election of the new Constitutional Judges at tomorrow's sitting. The reason for this is that [[The president's gonna turn off the congressman's mic.]] the nomination of the new Constitutional Judges is invalid.
u2016-11-21-34	Dear Chief of Staff, You know exactly what you're saying is illegal. We've accepted the agenda, so please have a seat. [[Dr. Bertalan Tóth: I have a point of order!]] This is not a motion of order, this is fun with the patience of the House. Please, Your Honour, take a seat. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties. Zoltán Grimlock: It's against the law!]] Have a seat. Your motion for a point of order, since it doesn't qualify as a motion of order, I won't allow it. Well, so... [[Dr. Bertalan Tóth: Can I go through with it?]] No, you can't go through with it. Sit down. I just told you. [[Dr. Bertalan Tóth: Why?]] 'Cause it doesn't count as a point of order. [[Bangóné Borbély Ildikó: House rules are mandatory for the president! Noise, interruptions in the ranks of the MSZP.]] Then begin your speech as a new point of order on the subject, but I would like to say that the motion must be in line with the rules of the house. So far, it hasn't worked. Here you go.
u2016-11-21-35	Because of Mr President's illegal procedure, I am calling on the House Committee. Thank you very much.
u2016-11-21-36	Dear Parliament, István Tukacs, a representative of the MSZP, has submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Human Resources: It's an address. Congressman's got the floor. [[Several representatives of the MSZP leave the Chamber. General noise.]]
u2016-11-21-37	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, - who want to stay in the room and listen to me. [[Noise, interruptions.]] Ladies and gentlemen, I'm sure you know that one of the biggest health problems [[General noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] That healing depends on where people live or where they are born. I would like to talk a little bit about the eastern border of the country, the area of Satmar Bereg, small villages and small towns and their supply. About the area where the GP practice is sometimes filled with benefits. Ladies and gentlemen, I mentioned once in this House that the general medical care of a 32 villages small region has been reduced from two doctors. I would like to point out that in Várossnamény the ophthalmic care has been reduced from 5 days to 3 days. I would like to say, ladies and gentlemen, that with a severe wound in the city where there was no emergency care, they did not want to treat the patient to be visual, they didn't want to tie him up, they didn't want him in another town where there was supposed to be emergency care, but they suggested that he be transported a little further, in the middle of Satmar, for about an hour. Ladies and gentlemen, I am talking about these cases because there is not only a lack of hope that someone wants to heal in such an area, but also that if we continue to reduce their opportunities. At a time when I talk about these matters, what I want to say is that the health changes that have been made so far in hiding, stealthy, are largely of this: there are not governments and issues to discuss and not to reach agreement, but cuts. Ladies and gentlemen, About a few weeks ago, the hospital's trauma department in a small town near the border, White Colonial, was shut down. So what I want to ask you, Mr. Secretary, is why the odds will be reduced and why they will talk about what happened eight years ago. That class just got canceled. That ophthalmic treatment has just been restricted. They didn't want to take care of that patient right now. Therefore, I look forward to your answer as to why you want people in bad situations to get worse. Mr President, thank you for this opportunity, thank you for the floor.
u2016-11-21-38	State Secretary Bence Rétvári has the floor.
u2016-11-21-39	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, The solution to the real problems is not helping, Congressman, if you interpret the facts a little more widely and you speak misleadingly. Obviously, he did this on purpose, since the title of his interpellation was "Why did the Trauma Department in Fehérgyarmat stop? You know very well that there was no other trauma department in Fehérgyarmat, so it couldn't have stopped. [[Dr. István Tiba in the notary seat is replaced by Dr. Lajos Szűcs.]] Obviously, there are benefits for which I think it is worth speaking even here in Parliament, but not in such a way as to visit a class that did not work, honourable Member. Undoubtedly, because it is part of the reality that this kind of care has worked in the surgical profession in Fehérgyarmat, and its outpatient form remains, it still works, because the infirmary is the reason why the patients have to go to Matthew Salka. Honourable Congressman, Therefore, we cannot talk about a class termination, so that we must, of course, acknowledge that there is a problem somewhere. That is why, among other things, we are launching a wage increase programme, so that we can consolidate hospitals so that we can prevent these problems from happening, just don't talk about the trauma department if it didn't exist. Let us add that you have also been able to do the double stunt in health care by simultaneously reducing the amount of money that is being spent on health care, while increasing the debt of health care, indebting health care, as the health insurance fund has been reduced by hundreds of billions. Indeed, we tried to reduce the negative effects of these measures at that time as much as possible. As far as outpatient care is concerned, as I said, it continues to work in the trauma department, while inpatient care in Mátészalka has 34 beds and Nyíregyháza has an additional 70 beds capacity if patients are to be transported there. By the way, the hospital has also initiated traumatic care in the context of one-day surgical care for precisely the above reasons. You know this would be an important and modern form. This is subject to personal and material conditions and is subject to official authorisation. If we look at the developments that have taken place in the White Colonial Hospital over the past period, we will see that a new emergency care unit has been built; that would have been part of the whole truth, Mr President, if you would have mentioned this. [[14.20]] Therefore, the TIOP 2.2.2 tender was developed to a higher level, on the one hand, and on the other hand it was upgraded in the hospital you mentioned. In order to balance the territorial differences, that the problem you raised is that if someone is born in a more difficult environment, for example, they should not reach the same level in emergency care as in Transdanubia or Budapest, or in some parts of Budapest, so we improved and improved access here with HUF 525 million, which was modernisation, enlargement, and the new emergency care department now provides patient safety in a total of 1033 square metres of useful basic space. Of these 155 million forints were translated into medical devices. In addition to this item, we spent 108 million 900 thousand forints on modernising the equipment park and IT system of an intensive neonatal class in the same hospital. For the training of professionals, which is also a step forward for the hospital and health care at WhiteHungary, we first spent 20 million, then 22 million, then 87 million forints. Thanks to the settlement and the practice contest in the area, we managed to fill the practice in Nyírcsászári, Nyírmadán, Szabolcsveresmarton, Fényeslitkén, Nyírkatán, Rohodon, Nyíregyháza and Mátészalka after many years. I think these are important advances. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-11-21-40	I'll ask Congressman if he'll accept the answer.
u2016-11-21-41	Mr. Secretary. You're incorrigible. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: Thank you.]] 'Cause everything comes to mind, like Morica, what was under our control. I would like to say, Mr Secretary of State, that it would at least be good to look at the map, because the settlements, which are so well listed in the development of the GPs, do not belong there. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: They're in County!]] Secondly, we are all aware of the fact that you are not developing, that you have used EU funds, as we are, to develop health institutions, if we want to remain precise. And then the traumaology that wasn't, but it was, because the form of outpatient care remained - Mr. Secretary, let's just say it stopped there. We call it what we call it - traumatic care. Dear Secretary of State, I'm not very convinced when you list all kinds of beautiful numbers here. I'd be convinced if the people there didn't complain. I don't accept the answer, Mr. President.
u2016-11-21-42	I ask the House whether it accepts the reply of the Secretary of State. Please vote. [[Vote.]] The House adopted the answer by 110 votes to 39, with 1 abstention. Dear Parliament, Gábor Staudt, representative of Jobbik, submitted an interpellation to the Prime Minister:. When it comes to money, does Soros continue to be a buddy? It's an address. On behalf of the Prime Minister, the Minister and his State Secretary, who manages the Cabinet Office of the Prime Minister, who is responsible and competent according to the subject, will respond to the interpellation. Here you go, Congressman.
u2016-11-21-43	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, I'd rather have your boss honor the National Assembly, but if that's the case, let's get started. Some of the aspects of the scandals around Antal Rogán are as interesting as the suspicious cases of the Minister who has received multiple lies with full confidence in Viktor Orbán. One of the videos in the News Portal of the Index shows that Antal Rogán, Árpád Habony and Dr. Balázs Kertész go into the same house on Aulich Street, before which three Georgian businessmen discuss their business affairs at another time. One of the people, who is currently the regional leader of the Bank of Georgia, was formerly the economic minister of his country, and for 12 years he was the manager of the Open Society Foundations programme, the fund-sharing organisation that supported civil society organisations founded by György Soros. Moreover, it has dealt with nothing but public reform initiatives to promote the ideal of an open society with a nice voice. The above facts are also interesting because so far we have heard that everyone who has been in contact with György Soros or with the civil society organisations that he has financed sees the Orbán government as an entirely open enemy. We learned from János Lázár that secret service reports were also made on Soros's attempts to influence Hungary, and the all-knowing Szilárd Németh is confident that György Soros operates an organized network system [[István Szilárd Németh intervenes.]] , against the Hungarian government's migrant policy, which also violates serious national security interests. In a normal country, the disclosure of the above facts and the underlying videos should also have serious consequences, but the minimum is that a comprehensive secret service investigation should be initiated. All the more so, because if the Orbán government not only intended its outbursts in relation to György Soros to the media, it should explain how it is possible for a highly influential man in the Soros network to do business with the supposedly connected business with Antal Rogán for more than ten years. Or when it comes to money, does that not matter to you? If the above is true, then after the protection of the settlement bonds, it is also true about György Soros that resistance and patriotism last only as long as the possibility of easy money does not appear in sight. Dear Secretary of State, We already know that you don't care how many times and what Antal Rogán lied about. But does it bother you that your friends are dealing with people close to Soros? Or does that only increase your confidence in the Prime Minister's minister? I look forward to your substantive answers. Thank you. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2016-11-21-44	I give the floor to Secretary Csaba Dömötör. Here you go.
u2016-11-21-45	Thank you, Mr. President. Let's just say it's a new time, with the Jobbik Index articles here in the National Assembly. [[There's a grumble in Jobbik's ranks.]] We'd like to know what the Kuruc.info or the Barrikad will say. If I understand your speech correctly, you are trying to suggest that the government or individual members of the government are cooperating with György Soros. This is difficult to comment on because it is expected that there should be a certain basic level of seriousness, but we are still in Parliament. It is no secret that the government often has a debate with György Soros and with the organisations he supports, on matters of racial importance. Just to mention, we do not agree with those who see unlimited immigration as an opportunity, they would even spend a lot of money on it and refuse to take into account the serious risks of illegal immigration. This position is also openly taken by the government. We want to keep Europe a Europe of nations, and we want to tackle the shortage of labour with the support of families. These are the questions about the future on the substance, in which we have a serious debate. And since we have a debate, the idea of cooperation is therefore a category of frivolity. [[It's an intervention from Jobbik's ranks.]] I find it strange and interesting that you refer to national security risks as the founder of the Hungarian Guard. So if I were you, I wouldn't... [[There's a grumble in Jobbik's ranks.]] If I were you, [[It's constant noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] I wouldn't toss with the term "national security risk." Especially because if security was really important to your party, they would have voted in favour of amending the Fundamental Law. They didn't, so I'm forced to classify your current attempt as an empty-smearing action, with which Jobbik has only one purpose, to forget that you are increasingly facing your own previous principles. If there's something or someone connected to George Soros, it's the article you're referring to here. If you take a good look, it's marked at the end. So you're playing that sheet music. They used to refer to the fake articles of extremist hack portals here on a regular basis, but as I see it, they are now working from a different source. It also shows that Jobbik is a confused party that joins the Gyurcsány axis applauding, and if I look at it properly, he is proud of it. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-11-21-46	I'll give the floor to the congressman in return. [[Dóra Dúró: You didn't have many professional arguments!]]
u2016-11-21-47	You know, Secretary of State, it's also good that you brought up the amendment to the Fundamental Law because you lied about it just as much as you told me about everything else. Today, the Judicial Committee refused to deal with the basic legislative amendment proposal... [[Interviews from the Fidesz ranks.]] He refused to deal with it, which means it wasn't important to you before, [[It's constant noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] Or if it was important, it wasn't as bad as the dirty money and the settlements. That's what we should explain. At the committee meeting today, they did not support the proposal that was your proposal. One sentence has been added that no one can be settled or settled in Hungary in exchange for remuneration. That's what you should have answered. It was voted out today. You have 30 more days, but you should hurry to get the proposal before the Parliament. By the way, everything they said was a lie. Thank you, and I do not accept your answer. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches. Complaining from the benches of the governing parties: You have failed...]] [[14.30]]
u2016-11-21-48	In order to avoid misunderstandings, neither opposition nor pro-government representatives have the right to yell at you, but on both sides it is their duty to listen quietly to the Member who has just been spoken. Thank you very much for your understanding. I ask this House if they will accept the answer. Please vote. [[Vote.]] The House adopted the answer by 109 votes to 36, with no abstentions. Dear Parliament, Bernadett Szél, representative of LMP, submitted an interpellation to the National Development Minister: "How long will the government gamble with nuclear energy? It's an address. The congresswoman has the floor.
u2016-11-21-49	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear Government, If the public money for the expansion of the nuclear power plant is about the removal of thousands of billions, then the Orbán government seems to know no boundaries. In three years, it seemed like there had not even been a single cut; virtually 241 billion forints were abducted into nothingness, but apparently nothing is now expensive to you. What we're seeing is that a government bill was filed here one night, the night before the U.S. presidential election, I'm guessing they're saying no one's gonna listen. It has to be said that out of all the opposition groups, the May Other Politics was the one who spotted what was hidden in this bill, because you caught yourself and practically excluded the nuclear authority from the Paks expansion. You have virtually eliminated the substantive authority control of the country's most risky investment. Let's see how your idea of official supervision will work in the future if this bill passes through Parliament. According to the current legislation, the acquisition, transfer or transfer of ownership of radioactive material, equipment and facilities should be subject to authorisation by the nuclear authority, which is therefore mandatory. In the future, only the acknowledgement of the notification will be part of the OAH. I ask the honourable Secretary of State, who, I see, will answer my question again, I hope it will be a little more talkative than there in the debate in Parliament, and I ask who you would like to release to without proper official control, say radioactive waste. Lőrinc Mészáros or the Russians, or to whom would I like to give this project? But there is another example that I think is even scarier and inexplicable than the previous one. Under the nuclear law currently in force, neither the government nor anyone else has the possibility to override the authority's decision by a political act. If you vote in favour of this bill, you will. A simple government decision, a political decision, will override what the OAH says, what he thinks. I think this would be a huge step backwards in the area of nuclear safety. Let us imagine, according to the bill, that instead of experts from the OAH, practically, let us say, my strong fellow Member Németh or perhaps inventor Antal Rogán will be able to decide on the technical or quality compromises to speed up the construction of the nuclear power plant or increase the guaranteed profits of Russian investors. You here in Fidesz are trying to create a situation in which the construction or change of ownership of a residential playground will be subject to more serious authority powers than the construction of a nuclear power plant. This whole project costs HUF 4000 billion, which is financed by public funds at 100%; Hungary's external relations and radiation safety will be determined for decades, and you will also try to remove the remainder of the official control from this project. I ask you, how socially useful [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] to authorise the government to circumvent the decisions of the authority responsible for nuclear safety for the purpose of society.
u2016-11-21-50	I give the floor to the Secretary of State, András Aradszki.
u2016-11-21-51	Mr President, Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and The proposal to amend certain energy laws includes amendments to certain procedural issues of the Nuclear Power Act. During the debate I asked you to put aside your particular misinterpretation, try to read the submitted bill, and accordingly join the opinion of the politicians of Fidesz, KDNP, Jobbik and MSZP, who did not see the misreading or misinterpreting of the bill in this way. It seems that either he hasn't had time to read the bill one more time since then, or he continues to have some kind of interpretation disorder, which I'm trying to fix a little bit right now, and to explain to you what content this bill has. First, I would like to say that the Nuclear Power Act currently provides for possible derogations from existing permits for nuclear installations and radioactive waste storage facilities. These rules will continue to guarantee the nuclear safety of the facility and will not be transformed without the authorisation of the nuclear monitoring body. What is added to the bill is that these rules cannot be interpreted with regard to the existing nuclear installation and the radioactive waste storage facility, so the bill clarifies and complements the rules on how these licensing rules apply to existing nuclear installations. I should also add that the 2014 amendment to the Euratom Directive imposed an obligation on the Member States by the deadline for 2017 to lay down rules on existing nuclear installations and to carry out the necessary legislation. This part, the legislative part of such legislation, is now before Parliament. It is an interesting point that the National Atomic Energy Office has made regarding the amendment of its legislative powers. I must say that, to this day, it is still possible to initiate a judicial review of the decisions of the Atomic Energy Office. No one will and will not be able to change the decisions of the Office in any other way but through judicial review. As I said, the bill sets out the rules that the office should follow when authorising existing nuclear installations. The government has the right to make implementing regulations and decisions that are necessary for this purpose. This is also the case for nuclear installations that have been established and operated before. Since 1997, there have been implementing regulations on how the Office should deal with specific matters. I believe that this mandate of the government to legislate cannot in any way be regarded as the intention of circumventing the supervisory body. I'm asking you not to mix radiation protection with nuclear facilities. Notification procedures are in place for radiation protection, stricter licensing rules for nuclear installations will continue to be implemented and will continue to provide security for the peaceful use of nuclear power. These reporting obligations: e.g. when someone is [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] You want to scrape off an X-ray machine, so you don't have to make a decision about that, so simplification, acceleration, efficiency. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2016-11-21-52	I ask the honourable Member if she accepts the answer.
u2016-11-21-53	Thank you for your reply, Secretary of State. He spoke a little longer than when he tried to throw me off during the debate, ignoring my suggestions. I don't think I'm the one who's having trouble understanding texts, or if I am, you're having codification problems. I continue to believe that what you want to sell here to the Hungarian Parliament as a clarification and supplement is a stone-hard acceleration mechanism, which is obviously not independent of the fact that the drawdown of the Paks loan cannot be postponed indefinitely. You want money, and you want it very quickly, and you want to spend it. And you know exactly what I know, or maybe even better, because you could look into the secret documents, because we, you know, can't see that you have serious problems storing spent fuel. They don't have a solution, either, Paks II. in the case of Paks I, but not really Paks I. Dear Secretary of State, I cannot accept your answer, and if you vote in favour of this law, we will first turn to the President of the Republic. He was the one who said the nuclear power plant wasn't a bicycle storage facility. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] Now we'll see if he meant what he said.
u2016-11-21-54	I ask the House whether it accepts the Secretary of State's reply. Please vote. [[Vote.]] The House adopted the answer by 107 votes to 33, with no abstentions. [[14.40]] Dear Parliament, Erik Bánki, a representative of Fidesz, submitted an interpellation to the Minister of National Economy:. How will next year's tax package help families and businesses? It's an address. Congressman's got the floor.
u2016-11-21-55	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, We are very pleased to see that the Hungarian economy on the growing economic path is developing unbroken, and the figures, the results that are now recognised not only by the European Commission, not only by the IMF, but also by all large credit rating agencies, are returning to the growth of domestic consumption and to the increase in the well-being of Hungarian families. We are proud that we have been able to develop and operate a system of tax incentives not only in Hungary in proportion to the increase in budget performance over the past years, but also to launch a favourable family support system that, I think, is unique in Europe. We have been able to provide support to children's families, we have been able to put in place tax incentives in recent years that have led hundreds of families, thousands of families to take on new children, and we have managed to stop population loss [[Ildikó Bangóné Borbély: Not quite so, Congressman!]] And we are very confident that the decisions ahead of us, the government's plans to give new benefits to the most important part of society, the family, in the next year's tax package, can further enhance this desire to have children. We believe that the programme carried out by the Hungarian government since 2010 has certainly brought the expected results, as I have mentioned, in Europe offering unique benefits to families, and that the plan included in the package for next year can further strengthen the position of domestic families. Dear Secretary of State, I would like to ask you what measures can be taken to further improve the position of Hungarian families, to provide additional opportunities for Hungarian families, not only to have a safe home, but also to make further sacrifices in the area of childbearing, and to find a partner in a government that appreciates this sacrifice and offers benefits that will improve the livelihood of Hungarian families later. I'm looking forward to your reply. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2016-11-21-56	Mr. András Tállai has the floor.
u2016-11-21-57	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Honourable Congressman, Thank you for asking. I would like to start by saying that, after the change of government in 2010, a very conscious, consistent, focused tax policy was put in place, with a clear aim of encouraging people to work with lower income tax, while at the same time involving as wide a range as possible with lower income tax, and thus ensuring the revenue of the public budget; reducing tax bureaucracy in the area of businesses, increasing competitiveness, reducing tax administration as far as possible, crowding out the proportion of the black economy - this is where the government can produce very serious results - and, overall, achieving a sound fiscal balance with the increase in consumption and turnover taxes. I think the government has very serious results in this area. Among these, the introduction of a single-key personal income tax, mentioned by you, was introduced by 16 percent and reduced to 15 percent. In addition to this one-key, low personal income tax rate, support for families is outstanding, as we have brought back the family tax relief and the preference for child births through the tax system. In addition, the government and Parliament decided to further increase the family tax relief in the spring tax package, as the family tax relief of two children will double in four equal steps until 2019, thus improving the income situation of some 400 thousand taxpayers. In the case of a family of four, which has two children, it can leave 80-85 thousand forints with families through the tax system. However, I would like to mention here the benefits of the first married couple, which will also take place next year's tax relief even if a child is born in the family. I would like to highlight our measures in the area of VAT, for example, since 2017 we will be able to reduce VAT on basic foodstuffs - poultrymeat, eggs, fresh milk - and other services such as restaurant meals or internet services. The draft tax law for 2017, which is before the Parliament, and we are voting on it tomorrow, is precisely in line with this tax policy. Here I would like to highlight the significant advantages that will be introduced in the area of businesses. For example, the threshold for the so-called kata, small business tax system will rise from 6 million to 12 million forints. More than 100,000 entrepreneurs are currently choosing this, and it is likely that the number of these will increase. It is a simplified tax, a lump sum tax paid by these companies. Or a long-awaited discount: the threshold for the tax exemption on the subject will rise from HUF 6 million to HUF 8 million. This also significantly reduces administration. A lot of small and medium-sized enterprises will certainly choose this. But it will also have a positive effect on the changes in the Kiva system. Overall, next year's tax law changes will take place according to the government's tax policy. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2016-11-21-58	I'll give the floor to the congressman in return. Here you go.
u2016-11-21-59	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Thank you very much for the new information that you have shared with us, and obviously, following the adoption of next year's tax package, the aim is to get this information to as many Hungarian businesses as possible and to as many Hungarian families as possible. It was a very important sentence, Mr Secretary of State, that the Hungarian government's attempt to further improve the situation of Hungarian families by 2019 and to improve the situation of more than 400 thousand taxpayers in such a way that families with two children, as mentioned by the Secretary of State, can stay up to HUF 88 thousand in the family's wallet. The measures so far have left more than HUF 300 billion in surplus resources for Hungarian families, thus continuing this course. And we also consider it very important that the reduction of the administrative burden on taxation also helps small businesses to compete, because this will also be a cost reduction factor for them. Thank you very much, your answer is, of course, accepted. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2016-11-21-60	Dear Parliament, Ildikó Bangóné Borbély, a representative of the MSZP, submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Human Resources:, More days than sausages! ? Or why can't every child in need get a free meal? It's an address. Here you go, Congresswoman.
u2016-11-21-61	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, You're lying. [[Deterioration in the pro-government benches.]] , ruthlessly and unwaveringly. Right now, we're talking about how many children have received this summer's social meals. In June, Mr State Secretary said that 160,000 children were required by local governments for summer holiday meals. However, in reply to my written question received in the days, he had to admit, after two months, that only 140,000 children had been fed. On the same day - I think you did not agree, Mr Secretary - in the Fidesz Communication, you lied that the number of beneficiaries has increased to 208 thousand. We know it's not that they're lying. We're used to it. We don't expect anything else from you, Mr. Secretary. [[Moore in the pro-government benches.]] . The real problem is that children in need, who would be entitled to free meals, will not receive statutory compulsory treatment. Last year, 144,000 children received summer meals, only 142,000 during spring break, and 140,000 in summer. Do you think that the number of children living in poverty in Hungary has fallen to this extent? We know that it is not, because what would reduce it, when the benefits of the poorest have not been raised by a penny in the last six years, neither the family allowance nor the child protection allowance has increased. Neither did the parents get better, nor the children. [[14.50]] Then what has changed? Well, I'll tell you, Mr. Secretary. Defining the scope of the rightholder. Last year, children entitled to regular child protection benefits were the target groups for holiday social meals, but from this year onwards, the same applies only to those with multiple disadvantages. The two sets are not the same, one is 500 thousand children, the other is 208 thousand children. So what's really going on? The government and Fidesz speak, just talking that more resources are available for children's meals, that more people than ever receive meals, that 208 thousand children receive holiday meals. In the meantime, we see that, in fact, every holiday, there are fewer and fewer children in need, according to you. So, Secretary of State, where are 68,000 children from the system? Why didn't all the children get the support? Just don't tell me, Mr. Secretary, that the parents should have asked for it. Please don't answer that to me. How much central resources would be needed to ensure that all children in need receive compulsory benefits? Mr. Secretary, where are 68,000 children from the system? Explain it to me. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2016-11-21-62	State Secretary Bence Rétvári has the floor.
u2016-11-21-63	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Dear House, I was just wondering if you could answer that. During the socialist period, how many children were fed during winter break? Zero. During the socialist period, how many children were given free to eat during spring break? Zero. During the socialist period during the fall break, how many children were given free meals? That's zero, too. [[Moraj, there's a lot of noise on the opposition side.]] Compared to that, you're saying that the government has now withdrawn. [[Sándor Burány: They were not poor then!]] Congressman says that there were no poor children in the socialist period, and that is why no one asked for them at the time. How good it is that the socialists are always telling the truth! Compared to these three zeroes, we opened up the opportunity for 208 thousand children during spring break, autumn break and winter break - obviously for the parents of the children - to claim these subsidies and even changed the system in their interest, since in the past, the municipal authorities had to apply for and organise this meal. We have changed this, and this spring the notaries and child welfare services have received a circular to draw the attention of the right holders to the fact that they can now claim it directly, so no problems can come up. If the mayor's office does not require these subsidies, parents can apply for them directly after children, and even during breaks for children for meals. This is why much more people - exactly how many of us can say at the end of the year, because the fall break has just ended - have claimed it. I can say that we expected about 140,000 parents, children, based on the application data for the summer break, to be requested by this number, but, as I said, we will see the exact numbers at the end of the year. But it is also worth putting the number pair together, honourable Member, how many children have been given free meals at your time in kindergarten, in a kindergarten. That was 92,000 against the current 318 thousand. Now 9 out of 10 children can eat free in the nursery and kindergarten. This is due to the government's efforts to invest heavily in this. Obviously, we can give more because we have set a much bigger budget for this, instead of the usual HUF 29 billion in your time, 72 billion this year and 74 billion next year. In this way, it is ensured that everyone who needs it has the framework to ensure social catering. And we also sought to improve the quality and quality of the food that we can give to children, so we also increased the daily movement of the local government-organized catering they can devote to a child. So they can spend more on a meal, a day's meal, and we provide much more as collateral for children. The numbers you mentioned, where there are so many children, are simply due to the fact that the number of right holders is 208 thousand for holiday meals. This is the holiday meal you have spent 2.4 billion forints on, and we will spend 5.3 billion for this year, and next year the amount we will spend on it will be over 6 billion forints. You are short on 5.3 when only HUF 2.4 billion was spent on this during their own government. I do not understand exactly why you are bringing this up in Parliament, because here the insensitiveness of the socialists in relation to the children most in need can be clearly quantified. And the very simple secret of the numbers is that 208 thousand people are entitled to do so, but not all parents have used it for their children. We have provided budget coverage for all the children who have applied for it, and about 140,000 will be required for their children. Why he doesn't do it is clearly only possible to determine it in individual cases, but we provided cover for all children. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-11-21-64	I'll ask Congresswoman if she'll accept the answer.
u2016-11-21-65	Thank you, Mr. President. I don't accept the answer. Mr. Secretary, don't you think it's ridiculous that after more than six years of government, you're still making such an answer that you're still over eight years old? Secretary of State, what's so hard about this law? From 1 January 2006 it is mandatory to provide all municipalities with children in need. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: Why didn't you vote?]] You carried out a survey, the Ministry of Economics and the EMMI, that 208 thousand children are in need. What's so hard about that problem? Tell me! You know what's hard? It's that they don't want to give it to the kids. That's the hard part. Because if we don't want something, we're not going to do it, Mr. Secretary. And then you're gonna tell me what's been going on for the last eight years? If there's money for it, we've voted for the law, then make sure it's secure. [[Noise in the ranks of the governing parties. Dr. Bence Rétvári: You didn't vote! The president's ringing the bell.]] And, Mr. Secretary, they won't even give that money to the municipalities because they won't cover the costs. At the end of the year, we will see that the children's food framework remains at HUF 3-4 billion again. [[The president's ringing again.]] It's something that can be divided into stadiums. Well, congratulations, Mr. Secretary.
u2016-11-21-66	I won't allow you to yell for a reasonable reason. I ask this House whether they will accept the reply of the Secretary of State. [[Vote.]] The House adopted the answer by 107 votes to 30, with no abstentions. Dear Parliament, István Apáti, representative of Jobbik, submitted an interpellation to the Minister of the Cabinet Office of the Prime Minister, who would sell his loved ones for money? It's an address. Congressman's got the floor.
u2016-11-21-67	Thank you. Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, The settlement bonds are the most extreme intellectual byproduct of your bosses, the most dangerous and dirty business in the past 26 years. They are dangerous because they pose national security risks and they are dirty because they are clearly visible to corruption. Moreover, it is extremely vile, because the profits are privatised because they migrate into private pockets, while the interest burden on bonds and the threat of terrorism are passed on to society. It is clear that they are not willing to give up this business, that dirty money, black money, is still more important than the security of the country. The Government Debt Management Centre sells settlement government bonds to companies with exclusively offshore backgrounds for EUR 271 thousand, and then these companies, registered in Liechtenstein, Cayman Islands, Seychelles and Cyprus, which are completely unnecessary and unnecessary, pass them on as own-issue securities for EUR 300 thousand, so not the bond, but the paper they consider to be their own issued securities to rich migrants or rich terrorists. [[President Tamás Sneider, Vice-President of the National Assembly.]] In addition, an administrative or intermediary fee of between EUR 60,000 and EUR 70,000 is also in the hands of these companies, and so much is still in the pocket, thus earning a profit of between HUF 27 and 30 million per client. The other main problem with this scheme is that even rich terrorists can buy themselves into the Schengen area and, of course, to Hungary, because the settlement bonds grant Schengen residence permits, and after six months, Mr. Secretary of State, they can also acquire lifelong residence rights, travel freely, set up companies or build terrorist networks. The numbers are clear. Until 31 August 2016, 3915 people obtained such a residence permit, but together with family members, this means nearly 18 thousand people through family reunification. The worst and most dangerous thing is that even the most professional secret services in the Caribbean, African regions or certain Asian areas can hardly verify the authenticity of the moral certificates, passports or other documents on which the purchase or possibility of this bond is based. [[15.00]] So it can't be verified clearly that it's original and authentic documents or professional fakes. The following questions therefore arise. Do you not find it highly controversial that, as long as they are fighting against the introduction of the foreign population in words, they have allowed 14 times the rate determined by Brussels to enter the country? If you were protected by different public authorities as well as ordinary citizens, would you still ignore the threat of terrorism? How much money would they be satisfied with? Haven't you taken enough, Mr. Secretary? Haven't you lost enough money? Haven't they been corrupted enough? And really, for money, would they be able to sell their loved ones? I look forward to your meaningful reply, free of misconception. [[It's a rare applause in the ranks of the Jobbik.]]
u2016-11-21-68	Welcome, fellow Members. I give the floor to Secretary of State Csaba Dömötör.
u2016-11-21-69	Honourable Congressman, I could start by saying that you're here. I could start out like this because when the party president decided that you couldn't run for Vice President Jobbik, he said that he was only going to go because it's a character test, and if he doesn't succeed, he's going home to pick apples. And this way, you're not running for vice president. [[Interviews from Jobbik and MSZP.]] Still, he's here. He's not taking any apples. It may not be right for me to bring this up here, because this is Jobbik's internal affairs, and it's a personal question anyway, but it shows very well how seriously your claims can be taken. They change it overnight. As regards the substance of the issue, the settlement policy was introduced by the government in 2012 because Hungary was valued on international markets and did not obtain foreign financial resources. This situation had to be changed. This instrument has made a significant contribution to helping Hungary not to have to take out new loans. It is an international practice, which also complies with EU standards. I am very sorry that you are confusing this investment tool with illegal immigration, which even Jobbik knew a few months ago that it has serious security, cultural and other risks. The Hungarian economy is now stable, and this is already recognised by the credit rating agencies, so the government is reviewing all the bond schemes, including the settlement bonds. This review takes place on the basis of the previously agreed timetable and is completely independent of Jobbik's blackmails. I understand you're sensitive to security risks. You may have mentioned national security risks. But if that were the case, then why didn't you support the amendment of the Fundamental Law, it would be really good to know that, which would otherwise have been an effective security guarantee against mass introductions. And they didn't support it by suggesting that Jobbik did the same thing before. Their party president said earlier that anyone who does not vote for the amendment could not see it as a traitor to the country. And it's gonna be a week or two, and you guys are blackmailing me and running around with different new texts. You mentioned one number in your speech, tens of thousands. I would just like to tell you that if we looked at the vote on the amendment of the Constitution and it was up to the Jobbik, then you could install hundreds of thousands of people in Hungary, including family reunifications. And by the way, if you're so sensitive to security risks, why are you cooperating with radical militarist organizations? Why is there a metaphorical funding for associations where some people are running around in Hitler costumes at events? [[György Szilágyi: They said that they support Fidesz.]] And one more question: why do they tolerate spies among their ranks? Under these circumstances, I must say that Jobbik cannot be expected when it comes to security-enhancing measures. No, because it is obvious that Jobbik can do anything for power, encourage extremists if necessary, even permanently settle on the left - this, of course, spilled with a large bowl of cuteness. It's a lot of things, just not a national party. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-11-21-70	I'll ask Congressman if he'll accept the answer.
u2016-11-21-71	Thank you, I don't accept the answer. Dear Secretary of State, Like God, like a picker Or like a bathroom, like a towel. While I've been watching your extremely intelligent eyes for weeks now, listening to the answers you've read from the paper, I think of an old child, beginning with neither hearing nor seeing Dumpster. [[Defiance.]] I don't know if you can continue this children's song. Unlike you, I do physical work, you know? In connection with the murder of a police officer, will the situation be clarified, or will the contradiction be resolved, will it be said that Győrkös Jr. is not the second cousin of the President of the Republic? Oops! That is what we should be dealing with, ladies and gentlemen. And speaking of, I'm sorry, he had the nerve to ask me what I'm doing here and where I'm sitting, and I'd like to say that my problem is that your boss and his accomplices are sitting here and not in a Hungarian penitentiary. You know, that's the biggest problem. But what's late will come, we'll have these threads wrapped up by the spring of 2018 at the latest, and then everyone will be punished. Everyone, without exception! Thank you. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2016-11-21-72	Congressman didn't accept the answer. I'll ask the National Assembly if he'll take it. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament adopted the State Secretary's reply by 106 votes in favour, 32 votes against and no abstentions. Ladies and gentlemen, Rózsa Hoffmann, a representative of KDNP, has submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Human Resources:, What measures does the government take to protect the homeless? It's an address. You have the floor, Congresswoman.
u2016-11-21-73	Dear Secretary of State, In order to ensure a decent lifestyle and to start providing the right basic care for homeless people, winter came in early November for homeless people living on the streets. The Orbán government has made determined improvements on several fronts to improve living conditions for homeless people. The aid will accordingly be implemented at several levels [[Noise in Jobbik's benches.]] , on the one hand, in public institutions such as nursing homes for homeless people, in day care facilities, temporary accommodations and rehabilitation facilities, but also in the protection of homeless people by local, civil and ecclesiastical organisations. With the change in the social law, which also places great emphasis on prevention, by stating the general responsibility of the municipalities for the social security of those living in their territory, the operation of the adult warning system, the firewood programme, the public work programme, or the increasing number of job opportunities, the government has already done a lot to combat the emergence of homelessness. It is also important for those living in this form to be able to show a way out in addition to immediate, immediate help, to draw their attention to a more livable world. In this, I should like to thank the churches in Hungary for their sacrifices, as they are exemplary in the winter crisis as well. On this basis, I respectfully ask Mr Secretary of State how the government is preparing to protect homeless people as winter approaches, and what opportunities it offers them against the cold. How much support does the government spend on people living on the streets this winter to improve their situation? How did the government strengthen the social care system for the homeless, and what opportunities do they have to further help our homeless neighbors? I look forward to Mr Secretary of State's positive reply. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-11-21-74	I will give the answer to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári.
u2016-11-21-75	Thank you very much for this opportunity, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Dear House, The government had a strong commitment not to have a winter when someone from a homeless shelter, a hotbed, had to be turned back because there wasn't enough capacity. We have been able to achieve this in previous years, as every year there was more capacity than the demand for winter homeless shelters. In the course of the year, there are 9,500 seats available, and in the winter crisis we can open up another 1,500 seats. There hasn't been a day in the past years, no matter how cold it was in winter, that should have been used up to 100 percent. There's always been a spare capacity. We can say that even this year, in the first days of November, when the weather was cooler, the capacity of the facilities did not go above 70-75 percent. So for everyone who sought shelter, help, warmth, food, care of the homeless, it was assured that he could get warm food, lay his head down to sleep in a heated place. [[15.10]] There are night shelters, temporary shelters for homeless people in these 9500 basic spaces, and in the remaining 1500, crisis areas. Nationally, there are 2325 seats on the living room warmers, 228 seats in the rehabilitation facilities of the homeless, which obviously means a run-out, an exit from the homeless community, and 460 seats for homeless people's homes. 83 street social services can also help care for homeless people. In the Finance Act, HUF 9 billion is available for homelessness, of which 8 billion is spent on the operation of the supply system, HUF 540 million for the maintenance of street services, and still remains HUF 360 million, which we can spend on additional expenditures for the crisis period. This means a crisis car service, a regional dispatch service, and also the provision of health care to homeless people through OEP funding by GPs with no territorial supply obligation. In addition to these normative contributions, we are also trying to help with tender support, the total amount of these, to which the congresswoman asked, is HUF 359 million 900 thousand, i.e. HUF 360 million in the absence of HUF 100,000. From this we can serve two main purposes. One in the winter period is the provision of needs, support for a meal, complementary support for street social work - obviously beyond the basic normative services - and the creation of crisis cars and crisis areas in crisis situations. The other thing that we can support from this HUF 360 million grant is annual, full-year programmes, including support for mental health for social professionals, as they also need help after many cases, or smaller modernisations in institutions, procurement of assets, employment of homeless people, or support for social inclusion programmes. Further work has been set out in the Strategy on Homelessness, which was formulated together with professional organisations, civil society organisations and charitable organisations. In the operational programme for the development of human resources, we have also provided HUF 1.7 billion for this purpose, with the title of "Employment" first, and we trust that this will lead many people out of this crisis, we will be able to integrate them, improve their skills, use employment policy tools, provide health care, and therefore much less people will be needed to provide homeless assistance later on. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-11-21-76	I'll ask the congresswoman if she'll accept the answer.
u2016-11-21-77	Dear Secretary of State, Because of my international responsibilities, I often turn to other European capitals, and I see that there are a lot of homeless people in the famous, famous European cities, who are in rather neglected conditions and in a miserable state on the streets. Of course, you can see such things in Budapest, but you listed the figures and the amounts here, which were very convincing. As a Christian Democrat politician, the human side of this issue is very important. I'll tell you that I spoke briefly to a homeless person near my apartment in Budapest, who confirmed that he has every opportunity to go to a home, but he doesn't want to, because he's used to living on the street. These help will also help these homeless people, to whom they are still [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] They have a miserable life. It is important to see this, especially when [[The president's ringing again.]] [[The president's ringing again.]] Yesterday, the Holy Father closed the year of mercy, and in the year of mercy perhaps more attention (The President is ringing again). He turned to the homeless. I trust him and I'm sure he will continue to do so. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-11-21-78	The congresswoman accepted the answer. Dear Parliament, Bernadett Szél and Erzsébet Schmuck, representatives of the LMP, have submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Agriculture:, can the Szombathelyers really calm down after the FALCO factory-related events? It's an address. Congresswoman Erzsébet Schmuck has the floor.
u2016-11-21-79	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, The fire and explosion that took place on 7 November at the site of the FALCO plant in Szombathely on Zanati Road is drawing attention to the population's decades of Calvary for a healthy environment. The facts show that it is in vain provided for by the Fundamental Law No. XXI. The EESC believes that Hungary recognises and enforces everyone's right to a healthy environment if this right cannot be enforced in Hungary today. Noise, stench and air pollution are unbearable day and night, in the vicinity of a residential area where thousands of underage children live, where two primary schools, three kindergartens and a nursery operate, and where asthma is twice the average in Hungary. The legitimacy of the complaints has already been confirmed by two ombudsman inquiries. But what did the municipality, the environmental authority and the government do in the meantime? By choosing a convenient route, the municipality simply re-assessed the residential area in a zone with lower environmental requirements, and has not wanted to change this since; it has only turned to the environmental authority following a mass protest from the population. The authority first pushed the matter back and forth, always setting new deadlines for reducing pollution. In September 2016, a single permit for the use of the environment was finally issued, which sets out a number of requirements for the factory. But it is also not a coincidence that Minister Fazekas, in his recent reply, still asks for the patience of the residents. I would like to know from you whether there has been an investigation into the potential adverse effects of the explosion and the fire on health. Have measures been taken to prevent such a case from occurring? What guarantees and deadlines can they give locals to finally raise their children in a healthy environment? These issues are no coincidence, since according to the City Air Quality Plan of Szombathely between 2013 and 2015, emissions increased from 8.6 tonnes per year to 54.6 tonnes per year, from 90.5 tonnes to 215,6 tonnes for nitrogen oxides, in relation to the increase in particle board production capacity, and at that time we had not discussed the release of other carcinogens.
u2016-11-21-80	I give the floor to Secretary Zsolt V. Németh for his reply.
u2016-11-21-81	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and FALCO Zrt. The operation of the Szombathely plant for the production of wood-based paper products remains closely monitored by the Vas County Government Office. The cause of the dust explosion and fire on the 7th of this month is still under investigation by the Vas County Disaster Management Board, but we already know that the fire alarm and fire extinguishing equipment in the plant concerned, as well as the bursting surfaces leading to explosion pressure, were effective in preventing the fire from spreading. The accident did not involve any personal injury, nor did any major technical damage occur. The plant has notified the event and the fact of restoration to the environmental authority in accordance with the requirements. Due to the dust explosion, the unit concerned did not operate between 7 and 11 November. The Directorate for Disaster Control examined air quality in the direction of smoke spread - no concentration harmful to the human body and the environment was measured. It was found that no hazardous material had been released into the air or into the precipitation ditch, and therefore no public protection measure was required. After this case, both authorities carried out exceptional checks. I would like to assure the Member that the basic objective of the portfolio responsible for environmental protection is to enforce the right to a healthy environment provided for in the Fundamental Law. The authority responsible for implementing the standards does not push matters back and forth, but merely seeks to enforce the obligations in a rule of law, in compliance with legal procedural rules. FALCO Zrt has become final since the oral question had been answered. a single environmental permit issued for five years, which obliges the operation of the plant to comply with strict environmental conditions. A new chip drying technology with a closed afterburner should be used, which causes dust loads of less than the current technology. In order to reduce odor effects, a plan of measures must be drawn up for the factory, the implementation of which must be verified by measurement. [[15.20]] Closed storage of sawdust and wood chips ensures further reduction of dust pollution. In order to control air pollution, an automatic measuring system shall be used to measure the source emissions of the most significant point, which shall send an immediate alarm signal to the environmental authority in the event of an overrun. If limit values are exceeded, the operation of the plant shall be restricted. On 12 October 2016, the Authority adopted a new noise reduction action plan to comply with the noise emission limit value. In order to improve the noise status, no noise activity shall be carried out by the plant at night. The additional measures listed and included in the permit guarantee that air quality and noise will improve and the environmental burden on the population living in the site's impact area will be reduced. Of the new investments planned, the Authority authorised only new chip drying technology. I can also provide new information on the development of the factory for capacity expansion. On 21 October 2016, the environmental authority rejected the application for an application for air purity protection, noise protection and public health. Please accept my answer. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2016-11-21-82	I'll ask the congresswoman if she'll accept the answer.
u2016-11-21-83	No, I can't accept the answer. Mr State Secretary, the aim may be to ensure the right to a healthy environment, but it is not in practice. For decades now, the people of Pick's residence have been struggling with this problem that noise and dust are simply making their lives miserable. Yes, the factory is indeed preparing for another expansion. Maybe they'll hand over one of the extended sites tomorrow. However, environmental investments are not being made. Speaking of local residents, people are just desperate. If the situation and the problems had been resolved, then tomorrow, when they hand over this new colony, the residents would not be preparing for a demonstration. I think that the Secretary-General should go and talk to the local residents, then they would see the situation quite differently.
u2016-11-21-84	The congresswoman did not accept the answer. I'll ask the Parliament to accept the Secretary of State's answer. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the State Secretary's reply with 105 yes, 27 non-voting and 1 abstention. Dear Parliament, László Pósán, representative of Fidesz, submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Human Resources:. Where is the European comparison of Hungarian education? It's an address. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2016-11-21-85	Thank you very much. Dear Secretary of State, As the Hungarian economy grows stronger, we spend more and more on education every year in contrast to any conflicting celebrity. In recent years, the government has made significant changes in public education, from which the opposition has taken only the negatives and sought to artificially enlarge them for political gain. However, the facts, honourable Members, speak for themselves. According to the annual education publication recently published by the European Union, today, when GDP continues to grow and does not stagnate or decline as in the period of the left-wing government, so today we are spending 5.2 percent of GDP on education, while the EU average is only 4.9 percent. Today, therefore, we are talking about a bigger slice of a much bigger cake in the education issue. The Commission's assessment also shows that not only the resources allocated to education are increasing, but they are also satisfied with its distribution and structure. The study, which relies on both Eurostat and OECD data, specifically points out that the government is spending EUR 300 million to reduce the proportion of school leavers without education. The Hungarian indicator is currently 11.8 percent, which is already below the 12,7 EU average, but we cannot be satisfied with that. In order to ensure that the economy does not suffer from a shortage of labour, it is appropriate to minimise the proportion of those leaving school without a degree. Of course, the publication presents additional challenges and recommendations that need to be addressed in particular. In any case, it has become clear that the reforms initiated by the government in 2010 are going in the right direction, and the left-wing hystericalisations, the protests for clearly political purposes, have been clearly exaggerated and unfounded. In fact, just to be clear, it was also evident last time that the director who organised the demonstrations to the teachers' protests and those who cared about it clearly have political ambitions for the future. In view of the above, I ask the Secretary of State: what is it, i.e. where is the European comparison of Hungarian education, and what are the main directions for further development? I look forward to your reply. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2016-11-21-86	I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári.
u2016-11-21-87	Thank you very much for the floor. Congressman! Mr President, Dear House, I think it is important to talk about this publication, because in other cases a lot of educational publications have been mentioned inside and outside the walls of Parliament. These are publications which, obviously due to the delay in the recording of data by the OECD, the European Union, Eurydice or other scientific networks, now include changes in the budgetary attitude that have been created during the period of this government and which are rebutting the threats that the opposition has stressed a lot in recent times; they confirm that the directions in which the government has started are important and can help a lot in the matter of Hungarian education, as well as in the case that the country does not split up and that there is some chance of creating a chance within education. The most important thing you have mentioned, Mr President, is that we are in the first half of the second half of the European Union in terms of expenditure on education, because while we were previously below average, we are now above the average in terms of expenditure on education. As far as we're concerned, we're way above average now. So this also confirms what was important and often said to the government, which the opposition has constantly challenged, but now our main alliance, Brussels, has to acknowledge. After all, the rules of mathematics apply in the same way in Budapest and in Brussels in this case, and there was a marked increase in educational expenditure in proportion to the national total product and in addition to the growing total product, which ranked Hungary ahead of the EU ranking. It is also important, as you mentioned, that the proportion of those leaving school without a degree is below the EU average. This is a very important and positive number, because we have heard many times that even changing the age limit for compulsory education will cause huge problems. In other EU countries, there seems to be much bigger problems. Obviously, we have started and started several programs that help students to finish their high school studies when they start their higher education. But in this, too, we have had better numbers than the EU average in recent years. This is due, inter alia, to the fact that pre-school education is higher than in the EU. Here, too, there has been positive feedback on what this government has decided in recent years to make kindergarten compulsory from the age of three. This is an important means of balancing and reducing disadvantages, as confirmed in the EU report. In the case of fresh graduates, the chances of placement are much better: in the EU, 80.4 percent compared to 76,9 percent and increased faster than in the European Union the proportion of those who find work with secondary education. The proportion of those who find a job with higher education is also 5 percent higher than the EU average. So with a Hungarian degree, you can get a better job in Hungary faster than you usually do with an EU degree in a European Union country. This has even accelerated over the past few years. In particular, the EU welcomed the launch of dual training programmes, and the decision taken by the opposition was also positive that there was an increase in vocational education and training courses in the secondary vocational school curriculum. It is also important to point out that the share of higher education participants has also increased, to be more precise: the share of higher education graduates has also increased. This is recognised by the Union, no matter how much the opposition has denied it in recent years. Moreover, it should be noted that we have almost succeeded in achieving our 2020 target. This has been achieved, among other things, because we have launched programmes in schools for disadvantaged students and elsewhere, which have helped them to have a degree that enables them to take up positions. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]] [[15.30]]
u2016-11-21-88	I'll ask the congressman if he'll accept the answer.
u2016-11-21-89	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Of course, I accept the answer, and I would just like to remind you that, in the context of a number of measures taken by the government and the majority in Parliament in recent years - let us just think about the age of compulsory education, or let us think that, for example, family allowances and school attendance have been assigned to each other, or let us just think that we have brought back the evaluation in the lower class of primary school - something that the opposition has always attacked, and with insensitiveness, and the devil knows what he has accused us of, the time has clearly confirmed that these were the right steps, good steps, and I only encourage the government to continue to do so. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-11-21-90	The congressman accepted the answer, so there is no decision. Dear Parliament, Mr. Lajos Korózs, representative of the MSZP, submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Human Resources:, How many more people have to freeze to death so that the government can finally see that the amount of state resources spent on housing problems is insufficient? It's an address. Congressman Lajos Korózs has the floor.
u2016-11-21-91	Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, In fact, it has been cold in Hungary for two weeks, since winter is not yet here, but the news reports say that seven people froze or cooled down until last week, two of the seven people cooled out in their unheated apartments, three in public areas, and two in the hospital, but they were also in such a serious state that they could not save their lives. In the previous interpellation by Rózsa Hoffmann, we heard the statistics presented by the Secretary of State. I myself see that there are not capacity problems in Hungary, there is not a problem with the number of seats, but there is simply a problem with the fact that there is a huge supply of supplies, because unfortunately, Parliament and the government are spending little resources on prevention. I must also mention that in these seven fatalities, there are only elderly people, the oldest man was 83 years old. The thing is, Mr. Secretary, if the situation that happened last year repeats, it is expected that more than a hundred people will freeze in public areas or cool out in their own homes. Last week, I mentioned the national bank statistics that said that there are about 140,000 families in Hungary today, above which Damocles' sword is floating, and they could lose the tabernacle at virtually any time. There are 840 thousand households in Hungary today, where they are struggling with some kind of debt deposits, and we can see precisely that from 1 March this year there have been three times as many evictions as in previous years. Ten more days to the eviction moratorium, and we hear the executives are working hard and putting everyone they can't agree with on the street. It is incomprehensible to me that, while the government spends hundreds of billions on building stadiums, moving to the Castle, or building horse stables, the government does not have enough resources to keep tens of thousands of people from losing their homes. I ask the Secretary of State, for this reason, what is the construction that can prevent being homeless, how much resources are devoted to safeguarding the safety of housing. Thank you very much.
u2016-11-21-92	I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári.
u2016-11-21-93	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, I would like to thank the Member for his words in which he acknowledged that in Hungary there is sufficient capacity for those who struggle with homelessness, those who live homeless, to receive them, the capacity, the public care system that gives everyone the opportunity to get warm, food, accommodation, medical care. I believe that this is also an important step forward in ensuring a decent life; it has already been said today that this represents nearly 11 thousand capacities in the winter period. You have listed news, of which there may be some part of it that may be true, some part of it may not be true, but it is certainly true that these cases took place while there was free capacity at the homeless shelters, so if someone had gone in to get supplies, this could have been prevented. But not only can it be helped by entering homeless shelters, but we also operate a 24-hour, so-called dispatch service, which helps on a territorial basis that if someone sees a person lying on the street, say, without polyfoam, on pieces of paper, we can also call for street assistance, both with normative funding and with civil funding, and with civil tender funding. In addition, a warning system helps to detect similar cases, especially those who get cold in their homes. Within the framework of the social and child welfare care system, we are operating both detection and signalling systems, which are now being transmitted to all walks, precisely so that people can be given the opportunity to help their fellow human beings, and we also notice that if someone is having a similar difficulty. However, the Member spoke not only specifically about the homeless, but also about those who live in difficult circumstances and who may even be in danger of housing. Fortunately, they are far fewer than a few years ago, because in the crisis of foreign exchange credit, the sword of Damocles was over the heads of many people, whether or not it was evicted, because between 2002 and 2004, the government of that time led out the interest-supported forint loans of the first Orbán government, and instead drove people into foreign exchange loans, which carried a risk that no one had ever seen before, and it was certainly threatening many people with the horror of eviction. It was also a major difficulty to increase the fees by two to three times the price of electricity and gas. With foreign exchange loans, currency barriers, forints, the National Asset Manager and the reduction of overhead, we managed to provide an effective remedy for these problems, some of which, let's say, in the case of foreign exchange loans, other countries have taken examples of their own regulation. There have been few cases of reductions in fees in countries, and while you have always said that in a six-month period this system will fall, this six-month period of indulging has been a threat on your part for almost three or four years. However, there are positive consequences for the population, as the proportion, the number of people who struggled with debt repayments or housing backlogs, so they had the risk of eviction, the number of these people has decreased by 414,000 over the last two years. The number of people who have not been able to heat up their apartments has fallen by more than 450 thousand; and you know very well, honourable Member, that the share of debts has also fallen by half, and now there is half as much retail debt as there was a few years before. So in both cases, I feel that it is safer to live in Hungary today, and in Hungary, the state can give more help to those who have had problems and social problems, because the government has sided with people, not on the side of multi-company companies, on the side of service providers, and thus managed to help this social problem somewhat. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-11-21-94	I'll ask the congressman if he'll accept the answer.
u2016-11-21-95	I'm sorry, but I can't accept your answer, Mr. Secretary. The National Asset Manager can solve a fraction of the problems, as it can be seen that they have been able to provide assistance to some 27,000 families for a period of time and hours. Now we are running out of funds from which the National Asset Manager can manage, while more than 38 thousand applications have been made. So it seems that nearly one-third or one-quarter of the needs are not being met. On the other hand, I have not heard a single sentence on the side of prevention, Mr. Secretary of State. If there is no social housing programme here, if there is no growth in external accommodations, if only the numbers that have been heard for years will be repeated in assisted housing, there will be no serious progress. I believe that, in addition to street social work, the social housing programme, rent subsidies and the provision of external seats are the most important. Thank you very much, I cannot accept your answer.
u2016-11-21-96	The congressman didn't accept the answer. I'll ask the National Assembly if they'll take it. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament adopted the State Secretary's reply by 105 votes in favour, 29 against and without abstention. [[15.40]] Dear Parliament, János Volner, representative of Jobbik, submitted an interpellation to the Prime Minister: since Lőrinc Mészáros met Viktor Orbán, his revenues have increased two thousand to five hundred times. Prime Minister, did the good Lord do a miracle to the mayor on the road, or did you? It's an address. On behalf of the Prime Minister, the interpellation will be answered by Mr.Csaba Dömötör, State Secretary, instead of Antal Rogán, Minister of the Cabinet Office of the Prime Minister, who is responsible and competent on the subject.
u2016-11-21-97	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, 2007 was a difficult year in the life of Lőrinc Mészáros, almost bankrupted his business. At that time, however, a quite wonderful turn of events took place, and he made his relationship with Viktor Orbán close, and from then on, Lőrinc Mészáros's life and wealth changed radically, not least. Lőrinc Mészáros soon increased the revenues of his companies by two thousand to five hundred times, and at present it is at the moment that his estimated wealth growth exceeds - once again - 15 million forints a day. The profitability of the construction companies is several times higher than the profits of the most organised multinational companies in the same sector, several times more than the profits of Strabag or Swietelsky for the same turnover, so Lőrinc Mészáros is doing it in some wonderful way. He was also very lucky in the Fejér county fields, as the quarter of the land that was distributed to the Orbán government, Lőrinc Mészáros and his family. It must have been a wonderful experience. It is also a marvellous fact that at the trade-off, which was announced by the government, Lőrinc Mészáros and his family also made their way through all Auchan stores in Hungary, Hungarian people can buy tobacco for themselves through their trades. But Lőrinc Mészáros' career was also unbroken in public procurement. He's won dozens of public procurements, and I have to say, sweetheart, no matter what area this wonderful golden man started in, he's always been able to win. Eat his heart. Well, he delivered the mineral water to the MÁV, and then later he moved from the mineral water supply to the barrier assembly, and he also won the public procurement in this regard. My fellow Members are very surprised, but it is worth paying attention, because this is not over yet. He built a Lovarda, he won it in a public procurement, he knows how to do it. He also built a railroad, built a canal, and God knows how many wonderful works he has not done. That's the good guy. Then we also learned that the crow that Viktor Orbán hugged - the animal known as Narciss - lives on land rented by a Lőrinc Mészáros from the family of Viktor Orbán, not with Viktor Orbán himself. The question here, Mr. State Secretary, is that the miracle of God was done by Lurch Mészáros - so great a miracle we must confess to the need for divine help - or Viktor Orbán's hand is in this matter. I would also like to ask you, Mr Secretary, how long this wiener will last, whether we can still expect similar actions. And since I can see, Mr. Secretary, that you will answer, if poetry has inspired me, Katalin Karády, come and lie something acceptable. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2016-11-21-98	Mr. Csaba Dömötör, State Secretary.
u2016-11-21-99	Thank you for all the good words that aren't about my name, or about having fun with my name, so allow me to answer in that spirit. Where are the good old days when Jobbik in his election program promised to put an end to the sovereignty of multinational capital? ! But let me start from a little further away. There is a party in the Parliament called the Hungarian Socialist Party. This is the party that has been showing up for years by launching a powerful attack on Hungarian companies that are increasing, even their incomes are increasing, and more and more people are being employed. The same party idly watched the Hungarian companies after the change of regime [[Dr. László Kács: Móricka, are you thinking the same thing about everything?]] how small and large have been excluded from the banking sector, the energy sector, the construction industry, trade or even the media. The reason you didn't want to do this is because you were a source of sly privatization. [[Dr. László Kács: But you're doing this over the table. It's not that sneaky!]] I bring this up because I see that Jobbik is also joining those who are constantly attacking Hungarian companies, so I would say that they have also started to monkey on the left. Unlike you, I am not following how the financial results of individual Hungarian businesses are coming along. [[Hungarian Zoltán: We know that! György Szilágyi: You can see that!]] I don't even know the company you mentioned, I'm sure. [[György Szilágyi: Haven't you heard of Lőrinc Ripper?]] That he wasn't created with the intention of cheating VAT on him, as he did on Jobbik. If you are aware of any violations, you should notify the authorities that if you do not do so, it is an empty cutting. At the same time, you may be deliberately involved in an entrepreneurial competition, that if this is the case, the government does not wish to participate in this. What is worth talking about here, however, is that more and more Hungarian companies in strategic industries are holding up. The share of Hungarian ownership has increased in recent years, including in the banking sector and the energy sector. [[Dr. László Kács: UniCredit! Yeah, not in that one.]] Maybe Jobbik can't argue the significance of this either. This also means that Hungarian companies have a better chance of participating in job creation and are more likely to contribute to the strengthening of Hungary. You may have said in your speech that it is a shrinking economy in all respects. As a faction leader, you should be aware of the basic facts. The economy has been on a growing path for many years, with more than 600 thousand people working in Hungary. [[Dr. László Kács: Butcher?]] This also makes it possible for the government to launch wage-raise programmes. [[Dr. László Kács: Why is everyone on minimum wage at Ripper?]] Dear Chief of Staff, You also feel that your speech has serious credibility problems. Now, I'm not only thinking that you've been involved in a nasty VAT fraud case before, but also that there's a mysterious entrepreneur around the Jobbik faction. [[Dr. László Kács: You know it well!]] And the thing is, most of the fractional spendings land in his area. If you have a policy, you decide to investigate Hungarian entrepreneurs, you should start with him first, even because, as a group leader, you will certainly decide on these issues. [[Dr. László Kács: If it starts talking about you!]] But to get back to the original question, I can't find anything wrong with any Hungarian business growing and growing. I don't think there's anything evil about it. Of course, there is a system that considers the growth of businesses to be a negative thing, which must be fought, a system called socialism. I regret that they are increasingly moving in this direction in a spiritual sense. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-11-21-100	I'll ask Congressman if he'll accept the answer.
u2016-11-21-101	The answer, Mr. Secretary, I cannot accept, and since my call sounded like a "Come," lie something acceptable. You've done enough. Because you have said things, Mr. Secretary of State, which are acceptable to you, but this entrepreneur has lawsuits against various Fidesz politicians because of his lies about him. And the last time I saw your lawyers in court, Mr. Secretary, you were determined by the court to be a liar. So this series goes on, I see. But I understand, of course, if the big boss has to excuse his friends, his favorite mayor, and explain whether the good Lord has done a miracle or Viktor Orbán, because an increase of 2500 times the wealth, I think, in every advanced democracy in the world, Mr. State Secretary, he needs an explanation, in this case too. You didn't use that explanation, and your government is getting more and more involved in such wieches. Stop it! Thank you very much. [[A voice in the ranks of Jobbik: That's right! Applause in the same place.]]
u2016-11-21-102	Congressman didn't accept the answer. I'll ask the National Assembly if he'll take it. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: 104 votes in favour, 32 votes against, the Parliament adopted the State Secretary's reply. Ladies and gentlemen, Ákos Hadházy, representative of the LMP, submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Human Resources:. What is the wage increase after which wages are reduced? It's an address. It's up to Congressman.
u2016-11-21-103	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary. Secretary of State Ónodi-Szűcs recently assessed his first year as satisfied with the agreement on wage increases. This, however, is certainly not shared by those women who have stayed out of the wage increase this time, while the women in primary care are also considered college-educated health professionals. They could not be included in the scope of the health workers' pay table, which entered into force in September, as opposed to those working in specialist care. Payment differences have been significant so far, the basic salary of a career starter is HUF 122,000 gross, and a college starter nurse has had HUF 163,000, but after the wage increase the difference continues to increase. [[15.50]] Although the government decided in June to provide two billion forints of extra resources to increase the patronage funding, only a fraction of this was available to the women. Instead of the 30-35 thousand HUF supplement promised per person, they received only a few thousand HUF, as according to the government decree 12 percent had to be paid as a pay supplement. Depending on the size of the district, this meant HUF 1600-5600. However, even though they were promised by the EMMI to receive the full amount, the new government decree did not settle the situation. Some still have the same salary, and information about Szekszárd has certainly come to us, where the very nice thing came out that after the wage increase, the pay of the women in charge has even decreased. In the latter case, despite the first round of payments, the new government decree has already been interpreted by the employer, the municipality, as being obliged only to grant the supplement to the employees, but the previous one can be withdrawn. The patronage department of the Hungarian Health Professional Chamber also indicated that there was total chaos around payments. Local governments have a different interpretation of legislation, and the promised amount still does not arrive at the women in charge. So the two billion forints remained a promise, just as there is no intention of extending the billboard. Even though Hungarikum became Hungarikum - the protective network became Hungarikum, by the way, rightfully, the 100-year-old Hungarian protective service - you have done nothing beyond symbolic recognition for the real financial appreciation of more than 5,000 women. My question is, according to the Ministry's data, how many of the women in charge didn't get their pay cut, and when do they eliminate the difference between basic and professional pay, when do they put the women in charge under the health workers' pay table? Thank you very much. I'm waiting for your answer.
u2016-11-21-104	I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári.
u2016-11-21-105	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, We thought that the unhealthy condition that was typical of Hungarian health in 2010 was that, where the least patients had been involved, we spent the most on health care, and where most of the patients had turned, we spent the least, we tried to scale it up and provide as much resources as possible for basic care and increase the amount that could be spent on basic care. We were able to do this, because in recent years there has been a significant surplus in health care, if you look at the Health Insurance Fund alone, we started under HUF 1500 billion, and next year's budget already contains more than HUF 2000 billion. There are, therefore, additional resources, and we can also talk about the distribution of those that can not only be reflected in wage increases, but also in other extra funding. However, we can't ignore the increase in wages, as it also results in HUF 107 thousand in the case of doctors from September this year, plus HUF 100 thousand in the next year, with an overall increase of HUF 207 thousand in wages. In the case of professionals and nurses, 1 September this year brought a 26,5 percent increase in wages, 1 November next year brings 12 percent, then by 1 November next, it will bring an additional 8 percent and 8 percent respectively, and a doubling between 2012 and 2018. In primary care, we already live several times in a year when the budget provides additional HUF 10 billion to the general practitioners. With this, their support, the budgetary framework at their disposal, has already increased by almost one and a half times compared to the previous framework in 2010. At the same time, we considered it important to include in this year's budget an additional, strapped resource specifically allocated to the protection services, with a budget of HUF 2 billion. That's all you can translate to, and that's all you can do. This HUF 2 billion comes to the women in many ways, there are many providers, there are places where the municipality does this, there are places where it happens in a different way. This is why we cannot talk about such uniform labour law or other conditions as in other cases, such as nurses or educators, it is much more complex to see who is employed in a specific form of contract. However, we thought that the increase in the financing fee, which results in an increase in the financing fees, would clearly add additional resources to this, so that we could increase the financing of the protective care once again after the 14 percent increase in November 2012. As you said, this HUF 2 billion is about HUF 30-35 thousand, but it was also seen that although this 30-35 thousand forints arrived at the overwhelming majority of the women's women, some providers, some municipalities, did not do so, and they almost swallowed the difference, swallowed some of the HUF 35,000, and not all of them were passed on to the patrons. That is why, on 31 August this year, we brought a Government Decree of 258/2016, which amended the previous 43/1999. This made it clear - I quote literally the Government Decree - that this increased amount must be used to increase the monthly remuneration of women in the service provider's protective service in proportion to their monthly remuneration for July 2016, for the first time at the same time as the remuneration due for the month of September 2016. But it also includes the payment obligation of the retroactive margin. Thus, the Gazette published on 1 September made it clear that from August onwards, this additional funding should be included in the wage of the women in charge, and even the difference between the previous months should be paid. Anyone who does not do so violates the decree of the Government on 31 August, which violates the law. So the women in charge are definitely entitled to this surplus of 30-35 thousand forints a month. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2016-11-21-106	I'll ask Congressman if he'll accept the answer.
u2016-11-21-107	Thank you very much. I can't accept it. In any case, the step and the additional step are the right direction, but it would certainly be appropriate for these workers to be placed under the pay table of health professionals. This is certainly justified by the importance of their work; saying that they are Hungaricum does not make them happy. They'd be happier if their health professionals were subject to a pay table. You used this rejoinder to find out what fantastic wages health care workers are getting. Unfortunately, it's too late and little, and you know it, even though it's a very nice communication trick, to announce in advance how much you're going to get, how much you're going to get, but you know very well that it's not enough. Thank you very much.
u2016-11-21-108	Congressman didn't accept the answer. I'll ask the National Assembly if they'll accept the answer. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: by 103 votes in favour, 23 against and 1 abstention, the Parliament adopted the State Secretary's reply. Dear Parliament, Zoltán Lukács, a representative of the MSZP, submitted an interpellation to the Prime Minister's Office:. Why do they not take into account the views, interests and findings of citizens' rights commissioners in relation to the Intermodal node in Esztergom? It's an address. On behalf of Prime Minister Miklós Seszták, Minister for National Development, who is competent and competent on behalf of Prime Minister Seszták, State Secretary László Tasó will respond to the interpellation.
u2016-11-21-109	Thank you very much. Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, I am speaking to you for the benefit of more than 2,000 Esztergom citizens, namely the construction of the Intermodal node in Esztergom. I would like to point out in advance that the construction of the node is positive for us as well, and that we and the citizens also believe that it is an important issue. The problem is that they are trying to build the node in a place that is situated in the middle of a suburban area inhabited by more than two thousand people, and is extremely damaging to the living conditions of those living there. We know that the construction started or they want to start without proper surveys in these cases. Neither the contractor nor the municipality has any assessment of the environmental impact. There is no material to examine the depreciation of the investment in this area. You can't get to know the plans because they refer to copyright protection. No noise measurements have been made in this case, but in this connection the contractor says that they do not want to build, for example, a noise barrier wall when they try to install a bus station in this suburban zone where 240 buses arrive and start daily, and according to the surveys of civilians, the noise is now between 65 and 74 decibels, jumping several times per day to 100 decibels and even more than 125 decibels. The people who live there are right, because the Commissioner for Fundamental Rights and the Commissioner for Future Generations have made a joint report, and in this joint report, the two Commissioners have been right to petitioners on many points. The two Commissioners concluded that the new intermodal node is currently planned for suburban residential area zoning in the area, that a new settlement structure plan should be adopted, this has not happened. [[16.00]] The Commissioners say that investment is of concern to the need for legal certainty arising from the rule of law and the right to a healthy environment. They also say that the Northern Transdanubian Environmental Inspectorate has issued its communication with a number of shortcomings. And by the way, they're also assigning tasks to the Ministry, which the Esztergoms believe couldn't accomplish. Dear Secretary of State, So my question would be why the changes to the Commissioners' findings have not been made... - or if they have been made, that is what we would like to hear, but we know that we have failed. The request and the question of when the local government will talk to civilians so that this more than ten billion-dollar investment can be made [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] that it doesn't put more than 2,000 families at a disadvantage, but that everyone can accept it equally with a good heart. Thank you very much.
u2016-11-21-110	I give the floor to Secretary of State László Tasó.
u2016-11-21-111	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, I would first like to respond to what you said in the last part of your interpellation. Therefore, with regard to the findings made by the Commissioners on civil rights in 2013, I would like to inform you that, in all cases, the proposals and comments of the Commissioners on civil rights have been incorporated. I would like to inform you in any case that there has also been a public hearing in the detailed environmental impact assessment carried out in accordance with the legislation. I would like to inform you that the Northern Transdanubian Environmental and Natural Protection Inspectorate issued the environmental protection permit in mid-December 15, 2014, which was approved by the National Inspectorate for Environment and Nature on 2 April 15. The municipality did its job, so bad information is that it wouldn't have done it, because it changed its regulation accordingly in the settlement plan. What is very important: apart from the municipality, the owners of the properties concerned were involved in the process, and all comments were incorporated in the building permit procedure and in the public procurement process, and indeed, it is also important to know that these comments were taken into account in the technical content laid down.2016. On 1 February 2007 the Komárom-Esztergom County Government Office issued a building permit and the Esztergom District Office issued a permit for the related sidewalks and railway station works. So you must know and have shown your knowledge that the train station in Esztergom is being relocated to the railway station, and you also know that in this context a group of freight train tracks will be built in addition to the Suzuki plant, which is important, as it will significantly reduce the noise load there. What is very important again is that the possibility of implementing and implementing the intermodal centre has been examined. They really saw two alternatives to be appreciated. One of them would have been that the municipality would have taken the bus station to the department store under an agreement previously concluded with TESCO, but this would not have allowed the transfer from the train to local and interurban flights. As a result, the choice was made for the second location and this is included in the placement and transfer to the railway station mentioned above. What is important is that it was also mentioned that it was brought in above the surface, in Hungarian, the railway would cut the city in half, which would have caused a great deal of noise and problems in the city centre, so it was rejected. There was another proposal, which was to bring the railway in below the surface, and it was rejected because of its cost impact. What is important, indeed, is that it affects residents in the area of construction, there will be a natural noise load, but it will have to suffer significantly less than before. Now it will only be the inhabitants of the railway station that will have noise, but I think it will be worth it, because there will be a civilised transit connection in the area of Esztergom's railway station, and I think that we can rest assured in this respect because we have taken into account the determination of the Commissioners for Citizens' Rights; the authorisation of the municipality has acted according to the settlement plan. This is why I can say that both because of its sustainability and because fewer people are affected by noise pressure, this solution was indeed the best solution. What is extremely important is that, for this reason, and because of the circumstances, we do not think it is justified to change this process; we are doing the investment in this form. With all due respect, I ask you to accept my answer. Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-11-21-112	I'll ask the congressman if he'll accept the answer.
u2016-11-21-113	Thank you very much. Dear Secretary of State, There was indeed an environmental survey of this type, only when it was only about the renewal of the railway. When it was made, an intermodal node was not mentioned and there was no mention of putting the bus station there. And since then, it hasn't been made, or if it's made, it's been kept completely secret. I believe that the municipality has modified the settlement plan, but the municipality is not talking to the civilians and the residents who are supposed to be talking to. So what I'm asking of you is that there's a fidesz mayor there to be able to come up with more proposals in this case. By the way, there is an alternative proposal for civilians, and I think that it will be good for many, of course, but it is not good that after a more than ten billion-dollar investment, the real estate prices of a fairly serious part of the city are falling, virtually more than 2,000 people are in very, very bad conditions. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] You wouldn't want 240 buses leaving your apartment ten metres away, and you probably wouldn't want the train to go ten metres by your head. [[The president's ringing the bell. Interviews from the benches of Fidesz, among them: Time! Time! György Balla: Mr President, you've been talking for a minute and a half!]] I think if the civilians had considered it...
u2016-11-21-114	Congressman!
u2016-11-21-115	... yourproposals would be much further ahead, so I'm not going to accept that answer right now. I hope they'll sit down soon, take into account the Esztergoms... [[The president's gonna turn off his mic. Noise.]] I'm sorry, I've been so rarely telling you lately.
u2016-11-21-116	I had to take the floor, because the congressman was way out of line. The congressman didn't accept the answer. I ask my fellow Members if they will accept it. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: with 104 votes in favour, 27 against and 1 abstention, the Parliament accepted the State Secretary's reply. Zoltán Magyar, representative of Jobbik, submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Agriculture:. Our country could be a canaan flowing with milk and honey, but if they continue like this, there will be no milk or shredding left? It's an address. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2016-11-21-117	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Mr. Secretary. The number of proposals we are trying to draw attention to and propose solutions to the problems of the domestic dairy sector will be innumerable. Although some additional support has been made by the government, they are trying to tackle the sector's problems, thus trying to keep the dairy industry on a ventilator, but it is clear that this has not achieved its objective. With no criticism of the additional aid, I must say that this system is indeed not sustainable. It does not achieve its objective and, of course, it does not achieve its objective if the reduction of the stock is the objective of this whole bonus on the one hand. Despite the fact that the buying-in price for raw milk on the world market has now settled since August, this is not very noticeable in our country. You can't see any of this back home. In neighbouring countries, since August, producers have said that they have reached about the cost price, which is 20-30 forints more than domestic buying prices across Europe. The risk is significant and not only for producers. There is also the danger that a contract with processors will be terminated, so that Hungarian-processing milk can practically disappear from the markets. According to the producers, at an additional price of 85 HUF/litre, it is practically possible to ensure survival, otherwise we are still far from it. Currently, settlements are closing down, this is already a multi-annual trend, and where they do not, there is a significant reduction in stocks that can be booked. On the part of the FM, if I was informed, there was a discussion last week that was quadrilateral and involved all those involved in the sector, so here I am thinking of the representatives of dairy cattle farms, processors, traders and the specialty of politics. [[16.10]] I believe that this discussion has been rather late, and it has not reached its goal in that it could be a contract-based solution that could mean long-term survival for those concerned, since, in the current situation, what is happening is that a significant part of the profits generated by multinational chains remain there, that the processor itself sells the processed product for the sole purpose of not falling or virtually zeroing it, and that all losses are hit by producers. This could be done in a contractual system, guaranteed by the state by law, overturned and set up a fair system. The government and the Secretary of State must want nothing more than to resolve this situation. The actors are looking for worthwhile steps, meaningful answers. We have poured hundreds of millions of taxpayers' forints into this sector over the last decades, they cannot want it, they cannot seriously think that the Hungarian dairy industry can be ruined. I look forward to your substantive answer. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2016-11-21-118	I give the floor to Secretary of State István Nagy.
u2016-11-21-119	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, My dear fellow Member, The truth is that you've had this interpellation week after week, which is why it may not be about the current situation, but it has presented a much earlier position here with us. The government is aware of the severity of the adverse developments in the international and domestic dairy markets and is committed to ensuring the development of the Hungarian dairy sector. Contrary to your claim, the portfolio has, in close and continuous cooperation with the Milk Interprofessional Organisation and Product Council, shaped and shaped its actions and measures affecting the dairy sector to date, which have strengthened the competitiveness and liquidity of the sector. Given that this is a global, protracted crisis, there have been no clear and rapid solutions anywhere in the world, but there are dozens of substantial EU and domestic measures. As a result of these measures, market developments are gradually becoming more favourable. They also know this, so they did not demonstrate against the government, but against buyers ignoring global and European price trends. It is also absurd to assume that Hungarian-processing milk can permanently disappear from domestic markets, since according to AKI data 83 percent of domestic liquid milk sold domestically in the first half of 2016 was only imported. I would like to draw the Member's attention to the fact that, according to KSH data, the increase in bovine herds has continued since 2010. The number of cattle increased by 14 thousand in one year until June 2016 and reached 832,000. In one year, the cow population grew by 11 thousand to 377 thousand pieces, so in the light of the figures, the Member's statements are false. The government has never supported a reduction in milk production. Although the European Commission's crisis measures have included this instrument, the Hungarian Government has supported only the reduction on a voluntary basis, and rather keeps it at the level of an acceptable and eligible measure. Domestic raw milk purchase prices have increased steadily since July 2016, with a 4% increase in the month of August of the year. The improvement is continuing, the EU's raw milk prices have started to rise for the first time since November 2015 in recent weeks, and growth is now expected to last in 24 Member States. By the end of the year, price increases are expected to continue on the world and EU milk markets, which could be accelerated by rising oil prices and rising demand in China. In order to ensure the competitiveness of Hungarian dairy producers, this year it is higher than ever before and high in EU comparison, with some HUF 63.5 billion. The Hungarian Government has decided to prioritise the dairy and dairy sector and determine the aid linked to milk production at the highest possible level. In your words, this is just a patch, but this means that Hungary pays the second highest direct aid for a cow in EU comparison. I very much hope, my fellow Member, that I have given you a satisfactory answer, that I have been able to reassure you that the Hungarian Government is in control, directing, assisting and supporting milk producers, and I very much hope that my answer will reassure you and therefore accept it. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-11-21-120	I will ask my fellow Member if he will accept the State Secretary's reply.
u2016-11-21-121	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Of course, I cannot accept the answer. On the one hand, the fact that over 80% of domestic milk is still processed by processors in Hungary is only due to the fact that those who are still holding dairy cattle today are holding on and are obviously not going to give up their entire economy overnight. I have not criticised your support system, Mr Secretary, this was not the case, and it is obvious that it was a necessary step. At the same time, I did not get any answers to the substantive proposals made by the profession, nor did they get an answer to that. This is not a sustainable state, there is a very big problem in this area, and we would have expected much more concrete ones. You could say this answer practically word for word a year ago when the problem existed, Mr State Secretary, since then there has been no meaningful response, and I have missed it now. So I can't accept it. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2016-11-21-122	Our fellow Member did not accept the State Secretary's reply. I'll ask the National Assembly if they'll take it. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the State Secretary's reply by 105 votes in favour, 30 votes against and no abstentions. Dear Parliament, We're moving to immediate questioning. I'm ordering a one-minute technical break so that anyone who has an indeterminate task can complete it. [[It's a short break.]] Dear Parliament, We'll get back to work. Zoltán Gőgös, a representative of the MSZP, wants to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question:, Without a word, Prime Minister, does the Mayor of Fidesz Szolnok tolerate the abuse of old ladies acting for their community in a subparic style? You're gonna try to save the unsavory by lying all over the place? It's an address. The Prime Minister appointed Mr János Lázár, Minister of the Prime Minister's Office, as a response to an urgent public task. I would like to ask the Member whether he accepts the person who is responding, or whether he is asking the Prime Minister himself for an answer.
u2016-11-21-123	Thank you, Mr. President. I would leave the opportunity for Prime Minister to consult his mother on this and then answer this question for me. Thank you very much.
u2016-11-21-124	Thank you. The Prime Minister will have to answer at the hour of the third immediate question. Gergely Bárándy, a representative of the MSZP, wants to ask the President of the Hungarian National Bank an immediate question with the title of "Friends, Friends and Others." The President appointed Vice-President Márton Nagy as a response to an urgent public task. I would like to ask the Member whether he accepts the person who is responding, or whether he is asking Mr President himself for an answer.
u2016-11-21-125	I'd like to wait for Mr. Matolcsy. Thank you very much.
u2016-11-21-126	Thank you. The President will have to answer at the hour of the forthcoming immediate questions. László Szakács, a representative of the MSZP, wants to ask the Minister of National Economy an immediate question. It's an address. Mr. Minister has appointed Mr. András Tállai Secretary of State to respond to an urgent public mission. I ask the Member whether he accepts the person of the response or asks the Minister himself for an answer.
u2016-11-21-127	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I'll wait for Minister.
u2016-11-21-128	Minister will have to answer at the hour of the forthcoming immediate questions. [[16.20]] László Szakács, a representative of the MSZP, also wants to ask the President of the Hungarian National Bank an immediate question. It's an address. Mr President has appointed Vice-President Márton Nagy as a response to an urgent public task. I would like to ask the Member whether he accepts the person who is responding, or whether he will personally ask Mr President for an answer.
u2016-11-21-129	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I'll wait for Mr. President to give me a personal answer. Thank you.
u2016-11-21-130	Mr President will have to answer the question at the hour of the third immediate question. Márta Demeter, a representative of the MSZP, wants to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question: It's an address. The Prime Minister appointed Mr János Lázár, Minister of the Prime Minister's Office, as a response to the urgent public task. I ask Mrs. Congresswoman whether she accepts the person of the response or asks the Prime Minister for the answer in person.
u2016-11-21-131	Mr. President. Since the Prime Minister's decisions have brought the Hungarian Defence Forces to the brink of inability to function, I would therefore like Viktor Orbán to answer my questions personally. Thank you.
u2016-11-21-132	Thank you. Prime Minister will have to answer the question at the hour of the third immediate question. Mr. Nándor Gúr, representative of the MSZP, wishes to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question: "Why do you deceive people, Prime Minister? It's an address. The Prime Minister appointed Mr János Lázár, Minister of the Prime Minister's Office, as a response to the urgent public task. I would like to ask the Member whether he accepts the person who is responding, or whether he will personally ask the Prime Minister for the answer.
u2016-11-21-133	Thank you very much, Mr President, I will break the line and accept the Minister's reply when, of course, you give me something that will answer the question properly. Mr. President?
u2016-11-21-134	You have the floor.
u2016-11-21-135	Mr. Secretary. Why? Why are you deceiving people at the head of the Prime Minister? You know, a lot of examples can be said, but let's start by saying that the minimum wage, the guaranteed minimum wage, which was just added to the increase, was supposed to be six years ago, in 2011, to prevent the development of processes that occurred that forced 600,000 people to leave this country because they couldn't make a living. You know, with regard to the minimum wage increase, when the Prime Minister talks about a 51 percent increase, the real thing is that the minimum wage increases when the money in their hands is more. This increase is not worth half the net, and in purchasing power, and you know that for five years the minimum wage was lower, i.e. if you went into the store, you couldn't buy as much for it as you did in 2010. Why do they fool people? Why can't you tell the truth, the truth? The other part is that if you look not at minimum wage workers, but at a different age group, pensioners, for example, the situation is even more dramatic with regard to the pension basket as a result of inflation. On the other hand, you provide an example of a 0.9 per cent pension increase. Then the Prime Minister will come out by 1.6 percent, as if he were carrying a multitude of benefits in his basket. You know, you should read the projections and forecasts of the Hungarian National Bank for 2017, it envisages 2.3 percent, so it is well known that this will be the least. Yet, in a faceless way, they want to enforce a much lower increase as a glory. Why do they fool people? Don't you think that after a while people will think that they're not the ones who are so stupid, but the ones who want to fool them? Mr. Secretary. With all due respect, I would like to hear your true answer, not your political warnings. Thank you very much.
u2016-11-21-136	I give the floor to the Minister.
u2016-11-21-137	Thank you very much. Your Honour, Mr. President. I appreciate it, just in view of the long term, the career of my fellow Member, Mr Nándor Gúr, who started his work on the party committee, has received much better training from political rhetoric than we have. For that, we can commend you. I also appreciate the fact that you have done a great deal of work for pensioners over the last 20 years, for example by supporting and voting for the termination of the 13th month pension. It was also a serious political achievement, so from him, who is also a highly respected and respected social politician of the Hungarian Socialist Party, to receive the words about what is the situation with the pension increase... you must remain silent in pension matters for many years to forget that the 13th month pension has been abolished and to be forgiven by the retirement society. We promised to try to preserve the purchasing value of pensions. I am aware of that, of course, because in my constituency I regularly meet with retired voters, regardless of party standing, they have their opinions on the intention of raising 0.9. I am also aware that the majority of the Hungarian pensioner society consists of small pensioners, in Hungary 12 thousand of those receiving a pension in the form of a pension of 2.2 million, so that 12 thousand of those receiving an elderly pension have a pension of more than 300 thousand forints, there are basically 130,000 or less pensions, and the majority of pensioners are in the 80-130 thousand forints band. That is why we initiated a discussion this week and last week with the Elderly Council, we listened to the opinions. And if the employer and employee community say yes to raising the minimum wage, which will have a significant impact on inflation, then it is our duty to consider the aspect of pensions and pensioners as well as the aspect of the elderly. By the way, I note that, in reality, the National Bank's forecast was less than half-percent inflation in the real economy this year, in 2016. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-11-21-138	Congressman Nándor Gúr has the rejoinder.
u2016-11-21-139	Thank you very much. Minister, just to expand your knowledge: unlike some of your fellow Members, I was not a member of the party committee. No. I worked in the youth movement, the way Orbán did, the way Varga did; yes, I did work in the youth movement, so don't get lost. [[Intercoms.]] The Fat Laci, yes, he was in the party, yes, as the colleagues say! Well, the point is, you can't play with hundreds of thousands and millions the way you think. No! You have no right. You, Minister, must obey the law. And the laws are all about raising pensions, you know what they're about, right? Not 0.9, not 1.6. Now, these are the ones to be observed. And you know what to keep in mind? Keep in mind that if you regularly attend reception classes and move around, what people think and what they say are listening to the Mayor of Szolnok, for example. Well, as far as I'm concerned, your values are concerned, that's how you think about pensioners instead of giving them a decent pension raise. Mr. President, thank you very much.
u2016-11-21-140	Mr. Minister has the opportunity to answer.
u2016-11-21-141	I would like to confirm once again, to inform Parliament that, in the event of an agreement between employers and employees, the government is ready to consider the proportion, number and extent of pensions for next year, depending on the consultation of the elderly. I would also like to tell you that you know, better than I, what losses have been incurred between 1994 and 1998, and between 1998 and 2002, Fidesz was the introduction to the minimum wage and then the radical uplifter of the minimum wage, which was debated by many at the time. If there is a party in this Parliament, which has always voted in favour of raising the minimum wage in the last 20 years, even against employers, even at the expense of economic competitiveness, it was precisely Fidesz. [[Noise in the ranks of the MSZP.]] You have not actually initiated such a minimum wage increase, either, since look at it, Congressman, if you will calm down how many minimum wage increases have been initiated by employees. The government has initiated a higher minimum wage increase than employees' representatives, precisely because we want to distribute the available resources in the country so that those who take up work will have a radical increase in the net and in substance. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-11-21-142	Dear Parliament, János Volner, representative of Jobbik, wants to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question: Why doesn't the government do everything to increase the wages of the working Hungarian people? It's an address. The Prime Minister appointed Mr János Lázár, Minister of the Prime Minister's Office, as a response to the urgent public task. I ask the Member if he accepts the identity of Mr János Lázár.
u2016-11-21-143	I'll wait for the Prime Minister. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2016-11-21-144	Prime Minister will have to answer at the hour of the third immediate question. György Szilágyi, representative of Jobbik, wishes to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question: "The Clans do not harm each other with their title. The Prime Minister appointed Mr János Lázár, Minister of the Prime Minister's Office, as a response to the urgent public task. I would like to ask the Member whether he accepts the person who is responding, or whether he will personally ask the Prime Minister for the answer.
u2016-11-21-145	Yeah, I'll take it.
u2016-11-21-146	Then you have the floor, Congressman. [[16.30]]
u2016-11-21-147	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Minister, In the previous week, it was a great shock that Viktor Orbán defended Minister Antal Rogán vehemently, who was caught in multiple lies, and who has more and more dubious cases every day. No one could understand why the Prime Minister was protecting the Minister like this. But if we look at this issue from a different perspective, not as Prime Minister and Minister, but as leaders of each clan, it is understandable; clans and leaders formed to build financial profit and economic power. That makes sense, the clans don't hurt or even protect each other. These organisations are made up of people who cooperate closely with each other, almost like a large family trying to control larger areas of the economy, and their positions in the economy, helping each other, protecting them with teeth and nails. The biggest problem is that this activity is clearly carried out at the expense of the Hungarian people. This was the case in the case of the amendment of the Fundamental Law, when you were not interested in the full protection of Hungarians from migration and terrorism, it was more important to have dirty money, the residency bond business, the residency bond business with the Rogán-klan offshore companies. This was the case in the case of the Buda-Cash scandal, where you did not ensure that the assets of the Buda-Cash network were contained. A law has been passed on this issue, but the necessary government decree has not been completed in a year and a half. The Orbán clan immediately appeared in the Buda-Cash area. Lőrinc Mészáros's man Zoltán Csík and his media expert partner Gábor Márfai appeared. But we could talk about a lot more, and we could go on with a lot of things. There is only one question: when will your country's interests become more important than the interests of the clans you lead? I'm looking forward to your reply. [[It's a rare applause in the ranks of the Jobbik.]]
u2016-11-21-148	I give the floor to Minister János Lázár.
u2016-11-21-149	Thank you very much. Your Honour, Mr. President. I cannot recall all the rules on the functioning of this House, but I am always very happy to answer questions about the operation of the Government, especially to my colleague György Szilágyi, whose work I appreciate. So far, we're used to more serious questions from him. As far as our commitment to this country is concerned, I have been reading all last week news asking us, Christian Democrats and Fidesz people, that we are pursuing a policy of over-national interests, too much nationalistic, pro-Sovereign policy. This is what we get from editors of leading newspapers in the West, through the most serious and influential politicians in Brussels. So what's not enough for you is a lot for everyone in the West. In the West, it is believed that today's Polish and today's Hungarian governments are overly patriotic, pursuing a policy of national commitment, and all aspects are subject to the fact that they serve the interests of the country. As Prime Minister did last Monday, I will personally reject these accusations on behalf of all members of the government, on behalf of my fellow ministers. If Jobbik's representative has any information, whether concerning abuse of power or other crimes, then he should file a criminal report and have confidence in justice and justice. I mean, I think they've experienced every part of it. As regards the Prime Minister's words with regard to my fellow Minister Rogán, the Prime Minister's stand in Parliament and state his position on a minister, it follows from the Hungarian constitutional arrangement. You think the Prime Minister won't take responsibility for any of his ministers? ! After all, he swears that in the name of the executive power, he is responsible for every detail of government work in one person here in this Parliament. This is, of course, how Hungarian parliamentary democracy works. The knowledge of this could not have led to such a question being asked at all. If the Prime Minister has a problem with any of his ministers, he will take the necessary steps. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-11-21-150	Congressman György Szilágyi is entitled to the rejoinder.
u2016-11-21-151	Yes, Minister, we've seen what it's like to press charges on a case. I could tell you in detail who is related to the other person, but this time frame doesn't allow that. We've experienced it; in the last six years, if I haven't filed about 60-70 charges myself, none. Do you know what's happening? You're the ones who changed the law. It comes back that it's not a crime. He'll come back after it's not a crime, which is a clear crime, and from then on, the investigation was terminated. You say, and I hope you are right, that Viktor Orbán takes responsibility and is responsible for the actions of his ministers. At the time, you said that Viktor Orbán was responsible for the lies of Antal Rogán, for Antal Rogán's questionable affairs, and that when they are discovered, and when they are, and there will be more and more of them, then he will probably also draw conclusions and resign with Antal Rogán. It is also his responsibility that such a person can be the Minister of Hungary today, and with this, I feel that the whole of Hungary is constantly being shut down. Thank you so much for listening. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2016-11-21-152	Minister János Lázár has the opportunity to respond.
u2016-11-21-153	How fortunate, you should say that to the Minister of Justice, but how fortunate it is that you do not decide what is a crime in Hungary and what is not! This is a serious luck for the Hungarian justice system. Your words and the sentences you have said in the last month remind me of György Marosán [[Deterioration in the pro-government benches.]] Who thought he was a public prosecutor and a judge of the people for many years. Among the walls of this House and in other forums, Hungarians have experienced what this means. As far as responsibility is concerned, today there is a parliamentary democracy in Hungary, and in parliamentary democracy the Prime Minister is responsible for ministers, government, work carried out by all members of the executive power in one person. Such is the Hungarian constitutional arrangement. And believe me, the Prime Minister will be careful when assessing the work of ministers, as he has sworn to do so, and has done so to my fellow Minister Rogán, as he has done to any of us. The Prime Minister is responsible for the government's work before the Parliament. Asking questions about which minister's work he appreciates, I think it means that he is not aware of the rules of the parliamentary democracy. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-11-21-154	Dear Parliament, Erzsébet Schmuck, a representative of the LMP, wishes to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question, "When does the government recognize that the direction II is wrong?" It's an address. Prime Minister János Lázár appointed a minister leading the Prime Minister's Office in response to an urgent public task. I ask the congresswoman if she accepts the person who is responding.
u2016-11-21-155	Thank you very much, I'll wait for Prime Minister. Thank you.
u2016-11-21-156	The Prime Minister will have to answer the question at the hour of the third immediate question. Ákos Hadházy, representative of the LMP, wishes to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question:. What is the explanation? It's an address. The Prime Minister has appointed Mr János Lázár, Minister of the Prime Minister's Office, to respond to an urgent public task. I would like to ask the Member if he accepts the person who is responding.
u2016-11-21-157	I'd like to wait for the Prime Minister.
u2016-11-21-158	Thank you very much. Prime Minister will have to answer at the hour of the third immediate question. Sallai R. Benedek, a representative of the LMP, wants to ask the Attorney General an immediate question, "What's the point?" It's an address. Mr. Attorney General has appointed Mr. István Lajtár Deputy Attorney General for an urgent public service. I ask Mr. Congressman whether he will accept the person of the defendant or ask the Attorney General for an answer.
u2016-11-21-159	Yeah, I'll take it.
u2016-11-21-160	You have the floor, Congressman.
u2016-11-21-161	Thank you very much. I am fortunate to be able to speak right after my colleague György Szilágyi, because Minister János Lázár said just a moment ago that it is very fortunate that you do not decide what the crime is in Hungary. Well, I'm telling you right now, and that's what I want to ask you, it's a real disaster, that you decide what the crime is, and not the laws in Hungary and law enforcement. I mean, that's exactly what I'm asking you about, how the DA's office works. It is true that DK has run a competition this week in demagogic populism or populist demagoguery with you, but their most repulsive, regular remark in Parliament is that if we know something, we should press charges. I've done this in nearly 30 cases over the last two years, in cases that I think were obvious and obviously criminal. The results are very, very bad. Törökszentmiklós Ágrádi Zrt., Kazakh study case, obvious plagiarism was paid 40 million for something that had been written and accessible before. They said it wasn't a crime. The National Chamber of Agriculture paid HUF 471 million just because an online application was introduced. They said it wasn't a crime. In the case of Esos, a two-billion-dollar contract in the case of a jasmine case, we filed a report, the bailiffs disappeared, they said it wasn't a crime. In the case of the Garanchees, 1,600 hectares of land were acquired by individuals, with incomes of HUF 100,000 per month, with amounts of between 200 million and 300 million, you said that there was no need to initiate a propertyisation investigation, that's not a crime. Márton Bitay is having coffee with Gunnery Ripper, who then buys state land, but it's not a crime. The procedures of the Jász-Nagykun-Szolnok County Police Department in very, very many cases, in the case of a jazz stork, did not seem to be a crime. Kehi: in the case of fraudulent treatment, fraud, or in the case of forest farms, it is not a crime. Moon street market: budget fraud, not a crime. I'm asking why you're telling us to press charges. That doesn't make any sense. What you're doing is not a crime in this country. Can this be any different? That's what I'm waiting for. Thank you very much. [[16.40]]
u2016-11-21-162	I give the floor to Deputy Attorney General István Lajtár in two minutes.
u2016-11-21-163	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, The address of the Member's question, which requires an immediate reply, unfortunately does not contain any specifics, and therefore no preliminary conclusion can be drawn as to the manner and form in which it affects the prosecution's activities. [[Dr. László Cook's intervention.]] Thus, it was not even clear from its question that it concerned the criminal or public sector of the prosecutor's office, concerns a case which has been completed or is pending, infringes a measure or non-compliance. It is important to know that even with falling figures in the last year, some 280 thousand crimes and 100,000 offenders have become known, and the public sector of the prosecutor's office has received over 300,000 cases. On the basis of this, I must ask the Member to forgive me for not knowing all the details of the matters referred to you, and therefore I cannot give a detailed answer here and now in relation to them. However, with regard to your question here, I am in an easy position, because I can clearly say that it is legitimate to ask how the prosecution works. In general, it can be said that under the Fundamental Law and the Law on the Public Prosecutor's Office, the prosecution, as a public prosecutor, enforces the State's criminal claim, which is also the case in these cases. The Member will receive the detailed answer to his question in writing. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2016-11-21-164	I give the floor to the congressman for a rejoinder.
u2016-11-21-165	Thank you for the floor. Yes, the legal term is appropriate because the law actually includes the word "penalty." About this can be explained by the conduct of consistently and continuously rejecting all investigations in matters close to the ruling party. The only thing I ask of you, either Mr. Attorney General Péter Polt or the members of the government, is that at least they do not always tell us to press charges, because we commit a multitude of capacities by trying to draw the attention of both the public and the prosecution in obvious theft cases. Often, we do the work of the DA's office and the police at night with research, and the reward for these is roughly the fact that they have no jurisdiction or jurisdiction over what they have no jurisdiction or why it is not a crime. Overall, I can say that doesn't make any sense. It is likely that we should rethink whether the prosecution's accomplice behaviour in this direction is sustainable in the long term and when this will be subject to substantive accountability. Thank you for the floor, Mr President.
u2016-11-21-166	Thank you. I give the possibility of rejoining Mr. István Lajtár, Deputy Attorney General.
u2016-11-21-167	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, I can only repeat what I said. If the Member asks a specific question in the future, he will be given a concrete answer. And I must reject your unfounded criticism of the prosecution. Finally, with due respect, what's the point of the, what's the point? With regard to the type of questions, I consider that there is no more than what is really the point of them. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2016-11-21-168	Ladies and gentlemen, Imre Horváth, representative of the MSZP, wants to ask an immediate question about human resources... [[For signal:]] Excuse me, the order is different. Ladies and gentlemen, Balázs Simon Róbert, representative of Fidesz, wants to ask the Minister of the Prime Minister's Office an immediate question: "Do you need to be able to lose? It's an address. Mr Robert Balázs Simon is entitled to the floor.
u2016-11-21-169	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Minister, Ladies and gentlemen, Orbán and Vladimir Putin agreed on the nuclear expansion in Hungary in early 2014, which includes the peaceful use of nuclear power and the construction of two new nuclear power stations in Paks. For more than two years, Brussels has been constantly trying to block the investment, and a year ago, it launched a infringement procedure against Hungary, which was officially closed yesterday by the European Commission. This means that the Commission does not contest Hungary's right to agree with Russia on the construction of power plants and the admission of credit. Furthermore, the decision proves that Hungary has not violated the Public Procurement Directive by concluding the contract. In the last two years, the Hungarian opposition has attacked this agreement against all evidence and dialogue. It did so despite the political consensus surrounding the capacity-building investment. There was no reason to respond to the attacks. According to an analysis by independent international experts, such as Rothschild, Paks II. project profitable investment, good business for Hungary. The study shows in detail that there is no need for State aid, the project is competitive and profitable even under free market conditions. Of course, the opposition, including Benedek Jávor, was defiled without taking into account the facts. The European Parliament representative of the Dialogue has suffered a spectacular defeat and is unable to exercise self-criticism. It is clear from all of this that the opposition is not interested in the well-being of our fellow countrymen, they are doing everything they can to bring about economic recovery. Dear Minister, What is there in politics for a person who acts against the interests of the Hungarian people? I'm waiting for your answer. [[Applause in the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2016-11-21-170	I give the floor to Minister János Lázár.
u2016-11-21-171	Thank you very much. Dear fellow Member, He asked an important question, because it is an investment of EUR 12.5 billion, which is the most important and largest investment in Hungary for the next 20 years, and which will result in increased energy independence in Hungary, given the fact that much less gas will be needed in the country and we will get electricity cheaply. Plus, we can spare the environment. As for our fellow Member of the European Parliament concerned, I would like to note here that I have never doubted Mr Jávor Benedek's commitment to green affairs, but it is sad to see how a serious man bleeds out along such a case, or how a person fails or falls into this case. Jávor Benedek has filed dozens of complaints with the European Commission in the last year, starting with whether Hungary had the right to conclude this agreement at all. [[Mrs. Loránt Hegedűs takes her place as notary.]] As you remember, in September 2013 the Prime Minister's Office was given the task of concluding this agreement, and on 14 January 2014 the Hungarian Government, in the presence of Prime Minister Viktor Orbán and President Putin, concluded the agreement with the Russian state industrial company Rosatom. The first debate was whether we should be able to conclude whether we have the right and the opportunity to do so. The decision on the infringement procedure taken last week closed this debate because it was clear that Hungary had the right to agree with Russia outside of tender; it had the right to agree with the Russians without tender. There was no need to issue public procurement or competition tenders, as this meant extending a previous nuclear agreement. This is a very important thing, because in this House it has been said many times that we should have tendered, broken European law, had no right to agree with the Russians. It is now clear that the agreement is compatible with the law of the European Union. In my reply, I will also mention the points in which Jávor Benedek has been prosecuted against Hungary. We've won every case we've ever had, every procedure we've had has been decided for the benefit of the government and the country. [[Applause in the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2016-11-21-172	I'll give the congressman the opportunity to rejoinder.
u2016-11-21-173	Thank you very much for the floor. Dear Minister, We've just heard a number of answers about how lucky you are. I believe that, indeed, how fortunate it is that the Fidesz-KDNP and the government have taken a decision on these important issues, and, well, it has been confirmed that certain opposition proposals have not stood up, so in this case, in the case of the European Commission, this too. So I think that we have made a wise decision, and, of course, for my part, I will continue to give my full support to Paks II. enlargement. Thank you for further information. [[Applause in the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2016-11-21-174	The Minister has the floor.
u2016-11-21-175	It is also important to underline here that, on the basis of the complaint by Benedek Jávor and others, they debated what we should make public in this agreement, what we should disclose to the public of the country. Parliamentary decision has been made to legitimise the agreement in Hungary by the Parliament, and a parliamentary decision has also been taken on the admission of credit. So the legislative power, which has the greatest legitimacy, the government didn't bypass it. One procedure has already been closed by the European Commission because the encryption of all contracts is correct. Then it was reported that the technical parameters did not meet international safety and EU requirements; the European Commission also closed this procedure and said that they would meet the requirements. Now the European Commission has closed the procedure that started on the basis of the complaint, which concerned Hungary's failure to comply with the Public Procurement Directive. Of course, in accordance with the principles of procurement of the European Union, we will spend this money in compliance with the rules on the transparency of public funds, so that there will be no prohibited state aid. Mr President, I have yet to make so many points of order that the last process is expected to be completed at the beginning of December, then I will inform the Parliament in plenary on behalf of the Prime Minister. [[Applause in the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2016-11-21-176	Dear Parliament, Imre Horváth, a representative of the MSZP, wants to ask the Minister of Human Resources an immediate question: "Do you know, Minister, if you don't respect the elderly in a country, young people can't expect anything good there! It's an address. The Minister appointed Mr Bence Rétvári Secretary of State to respond to an urgent public task. I ask the congressman if he accepts the identity of Bence Rétvári.
u2016-11-21-177	Yeah, I'll take it.
u2016-11-21-178	Then you have the floor, Congressman. [[16.50]]
u2016-11-21-179	Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, I'm sure you're aware of the nasty statement the Mayor of Szolnok made to elderly women after a council meeting when they left the board meeting. He thanked the ladies for their presence, and then, while they were gone, he made the following statement to the deputy mayor - in a quote sign - together: - so many stupid old whores! Excuse me. Dear Secretary of State, Do you think if the elderly, the women, are so respected in a country, what should young people expect? But this is not an isolated case, the members of the government, fidesz politicians, have repeatedly made degrading statements against their constituents. The statement quoted showed two things: neither the elderly nor the women are respected. The government's policy of disrespecting everyone, you confront the elderly with the young, pensioners with the workers, workers with the unemployed. All in order to divert attention from their depraved, depraved actions. One of the most important issues is the issue of raising pensions. In the spring, you looked into the magic ball, figured out how much inflation would be next year, so you had the promise of a 0.9 percent increase. Now, when the MNB talks about inflation of 2.3, and when all organisations and forums are protesting against an outrageously low increase, Viktor Orbán kindly announces: depending on wage negotiations, he can imagine an increase of up to 1.6 percent. [[Interview from the ranks of the MSZP: Shame!]] But wait a minute. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] On the one hand, the pension increase is still regulated by law, so the Prime Minister does not have the power to decide whether to increase it. [[The president's ringing again. Dr. Zoltán Kovács: Time!]] Of course, I don't want to seem naive, but sometimes they could try to pretend... [[The president's gonna turn off the congressman's mic.]]
u2016-11-21-180	Excuse me, Congressman, I had to take the floor from you, because you're way out of line, I'm sorry. [[Imre Horváth: Good. Dear Secretary of State, Finally, I'm gonna ask you...]] Congressman, your associates can't hear you anymore. You've really gone over time, and I'm sorry, you're gonna have to cut the comment short in two minutes. I now give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári.
u2016-11-21-181	Thank you very much for the floor. Dear House, You'll have one more minute to continue what you have to say. I believe that the tuning or teasing of the various social groups against each other has been in the toolbox of parties and political forces that govern them in history according to the socialist and communist principles. We are building on national cooperation, and we are trying to help everyone in their place. Allow me to draw your attention to a rather big contrast in your own speech: you said that the government will determine the rate of the pension increase by looking into a magic ball; then, at the end of your speech, you said that the increase of pensions is regulated by law, and therefore, Viktor Orbán will not be able to lift it from one moment to the next. [[Dr. Lajos Szűcs is replaced by Dr. István Tiba.]] Honourable Congressman, His second claim is correct, so the law regulates the increase of pensions. And Hungary has been lucky in recent years that inflation has essentially ceased. Inflation is most difficult for low-income people, low-income, small-income people, because their money, their income, is being devalued. Therefore, the fact that inflation was reduced to almost zero was a very important event supporting stability, long-term, predictable farming, which was obviously due to the government's right economic policy. The law also sets the rate of pension increases in proportion to the rate of pension inflation. This has also increased in recent years: more than 21 percent is what the percentage of pensions has increased numerically and the value of purchases has increased by about 8.6 percent. So while here your fellow political groups took away from pensioners in a roll-call vote when they took away their 13th month pension - this is how you showed your respect for the elderly, it seems to the elderly that they took away their one month's income - the Fidesz-KDNP returned this, as this 8.6 percent increase is the same as a month's pension. We have undertaken to preserve the value of pensions, we have managed to achieve this and even to overachieve it in recent years, and we have a similar goal in the coming years. In addition, we have tried with many awards, the Older Friendly Municipality Prize, the Elderly Prize, and other ways to acknowledge those who show great respect for the elderly. Thank you very much.
u2016-11-21-182	Congressman Imre Horváth has the floor in a minute. The possibility of rejoinder is given.
u2016-11-21-183	I'll go on with what I have to say. If, Mr Secretary of State, inflation changes, then perhaps the entire budget should also be recalculated, and this cannot be short-circuited in a Monday morning radio interview. I would like to ask Mr. Secretary: when will you decide how much pensions will increase next year? What do you think elderly people can expect from the government in the country where pro-government city leaders call old women whores without blinking at them? What can the elderly, the sick, the needy expect from you? Are you planning to set a minimum pension increase? Thank you.
u2016-11-21-184	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, It is worth choosing our words, even if they have been spoken in certain places. I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári for a rejoinder.
u2016-11-21-185	Thank you very much. I think that all old people can be respected both in action and in words. That is why we have launched programmes that have further expanded the opportunities of older people in Hungary. If I think about the .Defence Network for Families, or, I am referring to the program "Enhancing Social Entrepreneurship in the Development of Communities," there have been large-scale actions specifically taking into account older people's concerns. At the Elderly Council, we ask the elderly representatives' opinions to make decisions about them only with them. I believe that it was important to amend the Code of Penalty, which makes violent crimes against the elderly more punishable. In order to achieve a high pension, it was also important to take action to help on average 340 thousand workers over 55 years of age per month to keep their job. Today, seven of the ten employees who are about to retire have jobs with the benefits of the job protection action plan being used by their employers. That's why they work, so they get a higher pension. As well as a discount for women 40, there are also many pensioners. But I could also mention in the Erzsébet program the recreational and bathing tickets, which were used by 58 thousand pensioners last year. So, I think that's a good way of showing the government's respect for the elderly. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2016-11-21-186	Ladies and gentlemen, I give the chair to Vice-President János Latorcai. Thank you very much. [[Dr. János Latorcai, vice-president of the Parliament, takes the chair.]]
u2016-11-21-187	Welcome, fellow Members. Dear Parliament, Congresswoman Dóra Dúró, representative of Jobbik, wants to ask the Minister of Human Resources an immediate question: "It is more spacious inside." Mr. Minister has appointed Mr. Bence Rétvári as Secretary of State to respond to an urgent public task. [[For signal:]] I don't have to ask you this, Congresswoman, you're already indicating that you're accepting the person you're responding to. Congresswoman Dóra Dúró has the floor. Here you go, Congresswoman.
u2016-11-21-188	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, By changing the age limit of compulsory education, children who are still greatly disturbed by teaching at the age of 16 and one of their pro-government fellow Members said at the meeting of the Cultural Committee that even two or three children can put their peers and teachers in a very difficult position. In my view, the biggest lesson is that in the current education system, there are a mass of children that no one can change until they are 16 years old, the education system is not able to fit in normally with the others by the time we get here. I would like to say, Mr Secretary, that Jobbik believes that each child's problem should be dealt with primarily in the family, and should be resolved in cooperation with it. At the same time, many teachers and professionals say that there are cases where this is quite simply impossible. Not only is it impossible, but Cemen's Cemen Syndrome occurs in these children: what they put up until noon will collapse for the evening, so the family not only helps but also hinders the resolution of these problems. One of Jobbik's suggestions to help these families, these children, is the establishment of boarding schools. A system of institutions should be established in Hungary, which will help children that the education government will now simply not provide any solution to. [[17.00]] This is an extremely sensitive and intimate subject, Mr Secretary of State, how the state can intervene in the lives of families, where the boundaries are, and therefore, this issue must be resolved very carefully, taking into account the functioning institutions of the European cultural community, and taking into account the good practices of the schools that are otherwise popular and voluntary in Hungary. My question, Mr State Secretary, is why they keep shutting down even the opening of the dialogue [[The president's ringing the bell.]] on this subject. I look forward to your substantive answer. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2016-11-21-189	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Secretary Bence Rétvári responds. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2016-11-21-190	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Dear House, I believe that in the last year, the government has not been able to say that any form of dialogue in the field of education has been blocked, since so often public education experts and public education professionals rarely give each other the doorknob at an educational portfolio, as in the last year, because the public education round table meets every two weeks, and all the issues related to the issue of education are not only institutional issues, questions of maintenance, but also content and professional issues are regularly on the agenda, so we are fully open to this. And I also accept what the Congresswoman said, that this is a question that cannot be resolved from one moment to the next with one decision, and that there is a lot of detail to be taken into account here, and that we need to be very careful to do exactly and well; we need to think twice, we need to measure twice before we cut once. At the same time, Hungary's situation on the EU average is not as negative as it was painted by the congresswoman - obviously with the problem itself, of course, that there is an increased need for help for disadvantaged young people - because if we look at how many people leave school in the European Union without having a higher education, let us say secondary education or higher education, then we are very much the preferred part of the EU, because there are far more countries that have more negative data than Hungary in this respect. And we also highlight how many people receive pre-school education before school, and here we are well and a half percent above the EU average, 94.5 instead of 93.2, but if you look at how many people are involved in early development, it is also, if not so much, but above the EU average. In Hungary, therefore, there is a greater chance that a child will have a higher chance - exactly if he is a category that is more difficult to deal with by teachers, mentioned by you - to receive pre-school or early development, or during kindergarten schooling, which is now mandatory from the age of three, and I believe that this is recognised in all professional circles as an opportunity-building and equalizing step, there is a much greater chance that he will benefit from this kind of assistance. This is clearly to be carried forward by education [[The president's ringing the bell.]] other levels, too. Thank you very much.
u2016-11-21-191	Thank you very much. A one-minute rejoinder from Congresswoman Dóra Dúró. Here you go.
u2016-11-21-192	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, You describe the operation of the current system, and this system results in what I said earlier. Secretary of State, there are five counties in Hungary - five counties! - where the proportion of children with multiple disadvantages and underprivileged children in schools is over 40 percent, Mr. Secretary of State, over 40 percent! And you can talk about early development, you can talk about creating a chance, that's the result of this education system! When we spent 160 billion forints between 2008 and 2013 to implement catching up programmes in schools, during these five years we spent 160 billion forints with an increase in the proportion of disadvantaged and cumulative disadvantaged children, Mr State Secretary. [[An intervention from Jobbik's ranks: That's right!]] The spending of this money was negative, Mr. Secretary. The current system is simply not helping children to rise, but simply blocking social mobility. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] Why do they keep their distance from creating a new opportunity for these children? I look forward to your substantive answer. [[Interjection in the ranks of Jobbik: That's right! Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2016-11-21-193	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. The Secretary of State is also entitled to a one-minute rejoinder. Here you go.
u2016-11-21-194	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Dear House, It is important to have programs that you have talked about, either in high school or elsewhere, to create the college or the possibility of boarding, but we have a number of programs that will open the way for secondary education [[Dóra Dúró: That's not what I asked!]] , to complete the school; the, the second chance program, that once you've been eliminated, will help you go back again; help you study outside of school with schools, in other ways, help you get a degree. You know, there are 900 scholarships directly from students with multiple disadvantages, underprivileged or Roma students, and we help them to get a diploma and 9 000 to get a high school degree. We are all doing these things, because they are all important, as is the Roma College Network, and I could still say. Only one of those things you said, which may also be relevant, but behind it there are 10 to 12 other tools used by this government. [[Dóra Dúró: What is the result?]] And you can't say anything more effective than early childhood intervention to help these children. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] when they're not in school yet, they're not in kindergarten yet, but they're starting to show that they're gonna be at a disadvantage. Therefore, do not underestimate early childhood intervention, because this is what we can do to help everyone at the earliest and most effectively. [[Ildikó Bangóné Borbély intervenes.]] That's what needs to be the most focused. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-11-21-195	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Congressman Mátyás Firtl, representative of KDNP, wants to ask the Minister of the Prime Minister's Office an immediate question: The victims of World War II? It's an address. Congressman Mátyás Firtl will take the floor.
u2016-11-21-196	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Minister, As you mentioned in your exposé on the proposal to amend the law on war care, many of us still live among us today who are victims of World War II. As a result of the specific historical development of our country, some of the victims were not compensated in any way by the state before the regime change, although, according to today's concepts, they were, of course, war orphans, war widows, but the former political system did not allow them to be compensated in any way for the horrors they experienced, even if they had lost their father, husband, or brother. Unfortunately, when the law on war care was drawn up, the Parliament before the change of regime was also partially indebted, but last year you and your fellow Members, taking up the initiative of the civil society organisations concerned, submitted a legislative amendment proposal. Dear Minister, Please inform me that, taking advantage of the opportunity offered by the legislative amendment proposal in connection with the 70th anniversary of the end of World War II, how many people could have received support who had previously been left out, left out and excluded. On what grounds did the personal scope of war care extend? I'm looking forward to your reply. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-11-21-197	Thank you very much, Congressman. I give the floor to Mr János Lázár, Minister of the Prime Minister's Office. Here you go.
u2016-11-21-198	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, Mr President, I am very sorry to give an account in this form of what has become the result of the law, which Parliament has adopted by a majority at the borders of the political groups, but I would also like to underline and thank all my fellow Members for their support for the matter, which I hope we can count on in the future, because we still have plans that can be a step that this group can benefit from. It is about the fact that, by amending the Law on War Care, we have opened up the possibility that, first and foremost, those who were orphans of war, but also those in other warcare groups, would receive such care between 1945 and 49, and those who did not receive it before 1949 or who lost it after 1949. As is known to all fellow Members of Parliament, those who served in the military service during World War II were branded after 1949, their sin was that they served their country and sacrificed their lives or their health for their country. This is why we have taken into account the needs of social organisations in the field of war care, in particular the needs of war orphans, and the 15-17 thousand people indicated in the parliamentary debate are now being provided with 50,000 people. We have 50,000 compatriots, regardless of the country's borders, who receive HUF 8550 a month, which is nearly HUF 100,000 a year, which I believe is an addition to a pension that is significant for a Hungarian average pension today. So the legislation and the government have contributed to the fact that those who were war orphans have received war care, including 150 war widows who, by the way, receive HUF 32 thousand per month, and some who have just been entitled to lump sum support, I believe that legislation has made a very wise decision. So it's not a few thousand people, it's 50,000 people who have received this support, and there's a continuous application and a claim in these moments as well. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-11-21-199	Thank you very much, Minister. For a one-minute rejoinder, I give the floor to Congressman Mátyás Firtl. [[17.10]]
u2016-11-21-200	Thank you for the floor. Dear Minister, Thanking you for your information and your contribution to the merit of the Parliament's contribution to those who experienced the horrors of the World War and to their relatives, I would like to ask whether, based on the experience of the last year, the amended War Care Act has been able to convert the targeted social impact, what fine tunes are still needed, possibly based on impact studies, on the feedback of citizens. And here I would like to point out, Minister, that, indeed, many war orphans in my constituency have been able to receive support and annuity on the basis of this law you have submitted, and I therefore consider it really important that this fine-tuning be done. I trust that, indeed, this will continue in the coming time. Thank you. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-11-21-201	Thank you very much, Congressman. I'll give the floor to Minister for a minute's rejoinder. Here you go, Minister.
u2016-11-21-202	Ladies and gentlemen, Mr President, I would also like to mention here that the government is launching a very strong national programme for the first and second countries. For the restoration of world war graves. Our colleague Bence Rétvári, State Secretary, is under the supervision of our colleague on the rehabilitation and search of World War I tombs. It's the same thing with II. Even in the case of World War II; it is slightly better, by the way, thanks to the results of the last 25 years. But I would also like to say that what is needed and what Mr President has asked is primarily among Hungarians across the border, and also among those who do not have nationality, promoting this benefit. I believe that the knowledge that such an allowance is available has been limited, since 1500 of our countrymen across the border receive HUF 8550 monthly, which is a significant income supplement in some countries, I add. I believe that we have been able to help the war orphans significantly, but I will make a proposal, and I am already gathering support representatives to raise the 2018 budget at 8550 HUF. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-11-21-203	Thank you very much, Minister. Dear Parliament, Member Ákos Hadházy, representative of the LMP, wants to ask the Prime Minister's Minister's Office an immediate question:. From what? It's an address. Congressman Ákos Hadházy has the floor. Here you go, Congressman.
u2016-11-21-204	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Minister, The Prime Minister used to say that there is zero tolerance to corruption. You may be quite nervous, since you have already acknowledged a 1.6 billion-dollar series of frauds; you may say that to someone else, you have said that it is an irregularity that the Wolf Florians have taken. There was an employment cooperative that they were so eager to forget that a law was passed that there would no longer be an employment cooperative. In this programme, the Bridge into the world of work has not been implemented, so they would like to ask the Roma municipality for HUF 1.6 billion back. However, the Roma municipality has a budget of HUF 500 million a year, this year has already been spent, but you have signed a contract with them that they will return the money next May. The question is, how do you think they're gonna get this money back? Thank you very much.
u2016-11-21-205	Thank you very much, Congressman. The answer, as you have asked, will be given by Minister János Lázár. Here you go, Minister.
u2016-11-21-206	Thank you very much. The details that have been laid down so far have been paid by the Roma municipality on time, and I would like to inform the National Assembly of your question. And I would also like to say to my honourable fellow Member that the EMMI pays particular attention to solving this issue. I say that the solution, because it is very important, of course, to comply with the law, to detect the error, to be held accountable; I agree with all of this. But here, it is true, not with the support and agreement of all my fellow Members, I have mentioned that it is in the common interest of all of us to find supporters in these minority groups, the issue of integration, and not just failures, but also success. I very much hope that my fellow Member not only gives the right voice and forum for failure, but also highlights the successes, because, in addition to the fact that in the ORÖ there could be indisputable cases in connection with an employment cooperative that predicts irregularities or irregularities, this is neither disproved nor disproved, and in this country we spent a great deal of money in the last European Union grant cycle between 2007-14 to open up the possibility of catching up in Hungarian, which is more disadvantaged and disadvantaged: poor communities and poor people, and we also have successful and effective programmes. I believe that the person who mentions this issue should not only focus public attention on the responsibility of the Roma minority, but also on success and results. If this is not the way to go, and some members of the Roma community in Hungary are constantly quoted and judged here in Parliament from week to week, then it is easy to develop, even among us and ourselves, the idea that it is unnecessary to bring money into this community, because this is how public money is treated in this community. I'm sure there are abuses here in connection with public finance management, but I don't think there's more to it than there is in the whole community. As regards how the use of EU funds has evolved in terms of the system of public spending, we are talking about a few hundred million and billions, compared to the total spending of 11 thousand billion forints. We have to evaluate the two numbers together.
u2016-11-21-207	Thank you very much, Minister. Mr Ákos Hadházy is also entitled to a one-minute rejoinder. Here you go, Congressman.
u2016-11-21-208	Dear Minister, At a time when people can be arrested for stealing a bagel, I wouldn't say 1.6 billion is such a small amount of money. Unfortunately, you didn't answer the question. It was a very simple question: how do you think an organization with 500 million forints a year will repay 1.6 billion forints by May next year? So far, they had to be repaid 5 million forints a month, so this year they have to pay back 5 million forints a month, and in May they have to pay back 1.6 billion forints. Whether it's an irregularity or not, it's 1.6 billion forints missing from the state budget, so the Hungarian taxpayers' money, because you didn't dare draw the money originally received from the European Union, you didn't call it off. We paid for these. How will the Roma municipality repay it if it has a budget of HUF 500 million per year?
u2016-11-21-209	Thank you very much, Congressman. A one-minute rejoinder, Minister. Here you go.
u2016-11-21-210	I will also inform the Member in particular in writing, since the title of the oral question has not shown what it will specifically refer to. I'll keep you informed of the details in writing. So far, the government has accepted the initiative of the minority self-government to delete in what detail. What they said was what the government accepted. I can promise fairness and we will continue to act fairly in the future. You are treating theft of money as a complete fact, while it is a breach of the procedural rules of EU law for the time being, and there is not even an indictment. So there's a probable cause of crime, but here it's a crime that's been committed, no one's told you. As far as I know, the investigations aren't at this stage. In addition, I would like to tell you that the colour of the political report is included in this, since different groups are constantly reporting on each other. We need to look at this with sufficient calmness, fairness and composure, because we are playing with the fate of a minority group. I would like to ask that you also talk about positive examples, because as a liberal Member, I believe it would be important that you deal with integration and not only with dealing with the Roma self-government. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-11-21-211	Thank you very much, Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, It's 5:18 p.m., and we're done with Question Time. It is now time for a series of proposals to be discussed. Dear Parliament, The MSZP Group has proposed that the Parliament decide on the measures needed to address the refugee crisis H/12353. Proposal for a decision on inclusion in the scope of this Regulation. The series of articles was rejected by the Defence and Police Committee. I now give the floor in a five-minute time frame to Mr. Bertalan Tóth as rapporteur for the group leader. Here you go, Mr. Group Leader.
u2016-11-21-212	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, This proposal for a decision involves the name of the .Responsible and Security Programme, as the MSZP has made proposals on the safety of Hungary and the Hungarian people not only once but several times in the previous period. We can remember when we proposed to amend the Criminal Code, which was intended to create the criminality of the activities involved in the preparation of terrorist acts. This proposal was then swept down by the Fidesz majority, and a few months later, it brought it here as its own proposal to the House, and it was adopted as its own proposal. [[17.20]] However, we can remember that we had several proposals for dealing with the terrorist situation, which was then included in the text of the law adopted by Parliament. So it is true that, as a responsible opposition, we too must have proposals on the safety of Hungarian people. This is also the case in the proposal for a decision. This is also about how to guarantee the safety of Hungarian people and we propose measures to address the refugee crisis. One part of the proposal for a decision is about domestic tasks, domestic activity, while the second part proposes common European solutions. Allow me to mention some examples of this proposal. In order to strengthen national security and border protection, we recommend that there should be a separate border management board, a serious headcount development, the proper placement of border police officers and soldiers, a logistical background that is not about the need for police officers and soldiers to serve at the border in consorted tents, and a personal condition for trained officers and soldiers who perform specific border protection tasks, and not about ordering patrolmen and office staff to defend the border. As far as our common European solutions are concerned, there we propose the creation of a common border protection, which should be represented by the government before the various organisations of the European Union. A common force should be established, a common asylum procedure should be established, including all its segments, such as a common regulation, a common procedure and a solution in the deportation process. A common European fund should be established to ensure and finance these tasks. That is what the proposal for a decision is about. Please, ladies and gentlemen, take this into account and discuss the safety of the Hungarian people, the programme of responsibility and security. Thank you very much.
u2016-11-21-213	Thank you very much, Mr. Group Leader. Dear Parliament, Now, one representative per group of representatives can present their group's position in a two-minute time frame, as well as the first independent representative to speak in a two-minute time frame. I give the floor first from the Jobbik Group to Mr Dániel Z. Carpathian. Here you go, Congressman.
u2016-11-21-214	Mr President, Dear House, In all respects, Jobbik recommends that this package be included in the subject series so that at least one debate is held on it, even if we see a lot of things differently in terms of solutions. We are clearly thinking of an independent border guard, which, unfortunately, is far from what the current government is thinking. Indeed, it is necessary to assign deer patrols and other people for duty to border protection. So obviously, everyone would have a job in their own place, and unfortunately, the government failed to correct this system. But we also need to say that we also need to talk about issues that may already fall within the competence of the Immigration and Nationality Office, but we should still talk about the horrific amounts spent in connection with the travel of migrants or even sending them home. Therefore, it is absolutely necessary to rationalise the system, the end result of which cannot be that the Hungarian taxpayers suffer from the fact that some people simply want to change their homes and continue their lives in Europe in the hope of better, easier living. It can also be seen that the government is very negative about such proposals, and it should also be addressed that this fence, the physical border seal, which, although not complete at all, could be subject to newer pressure at any time. I would remind the government not only to deal with 1300 people who are to be sent from Brussels on the basis of a quota, but also to deal with more than twice as many rich migrants who have already been deployed here, rich aliens who have been selling or selling settlement bonds through their brokerage companies and good acquaintances. So it would be worth handling this whole situation in a package. Part of this is the need to improve the quality of border protection, and indeed, along an independent border guard, it must be done by those who have been trained to do so, and this is their place of duty, not to draw patrols from elsewhere or, where appropriate, soldiers. So, in your own place, I want you to serve in a rational way, and sort this whole situation out a little more bravely than you've ever done. Therefore, at least we find this package worthy of debate. Thank you. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2016-11-21-215	Thank you very much, Congressman. Ms Erzsébet Schmuck asked for the floor from the LMP Group. Happy birthday, ma'am. You have the floor.
u2016-11-21-216	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, The LMP supports inclusion in the series of items. We have been saying for a long time that the key to solving the refugee crisis lies in international cooperation; alone, by pushing fences and instigating the problem on others, nothing can be solved but sweeping the problems under the carpet. The government was successful in one thing: a diversion of asylum seekers. Fidesz-KDNP actively contributes to minimising the chances of consensus solutions at EU level. However, the solution is a coordinated EU-wide system of controlled and controlled movement, which also covers the Balkan states and where the burden is shared by the States concerned in terms of both material and housing. The LMP's action plan last September specifically includes the promotion of an EU-wide solution, the Immigration and Nationality Office and the strengthening of the police, such as stock expansion, asset park, financial opportunities, and so on. For example, we proposed a three-time budget of approximately HUF 25 billion last year for the former. The plan also includes support for non-governmental organisations and churches assisting refugees, improving the functioning of the readmission mechanism and negotiating with the States concerned. So there's a lot in common. However, what is lacking in the MSZP proposal is that it does not address the root causes of the refugee crisis, although this is the zeroth step after fire fighting. We need a common international development strategy, an immediate step to ease serious global disparities. We recommend inclusion in the series of subjects.
u2016-11-21-217	Thank you very much, Madam Group leader. I will ask my fellow Members if anyone else wishes to speak in the debate. [[No one's reporting.]] I don't see any contact. I will now ask Mr Bertalan Tóth, as his rapporteur, whether he wishes to respond to what has been said in the debate. [[On Dr. Bertalan Tóth's signal:]] Yes, he wants to answer. Here you go, Mr. Group Leader.
u2016-11-21-218	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I thank my fellow Members for the fact that at least they are not shutting down from the trial, although this cannot be said about the Fidesz-KDNP fraction, because we could not hear their views on this. Yes, it is here in Parliament that we should talk about the safety of Hungarian people, negotiate and make appropriate decisions. I'm really sorry that this party of government is always shutting down. Perhaps there is one thing we can trust: that these proposals will only be taken by the Fidesz majority later and will at least act along them for the safety of the Hungarian people. I also hope that, in the course of tomorrow's vote, you will support our request for inclusion and support our proposals. Thank you very much.
u2016-11-21-219	Thank you very much, Mr. Group Leader. I would like to inform my fellow Members that the decision will take place on our meeting tomorrow. Dear Parliament, The Jobbik Group has proposed that the Parliament decide to reduce the VAT burden on children as well as other products, in order to reduce the VAT burden on general sales tax, CXXVII of 2007. T/12070 amending Act T/12070 Bill No. 1 on inclusion in the series of articles. The series of articles was rejected by the Economic Committee. First, I will give the floor to Mr Dániel Z. Kárpát, representing the authors in a five-minute time frame. Here you go, Congressman.
u2016-11-21-220	Mr President, Dear House, The main problem of Jobbik is that while listening to the Fidesz-KDNP fairy tale about the roaring of the economy in Hungary about the expansion of opportunities, we see that it affects a wide range of social groups... [[The sound's gonna go wrong.]] [[17 .30]]
u2016-11-21-221	I would like to ask for a hand microphone for Mr Dániel Z. Carpathian, and then Mr. Congressman will start his speech again, and accordingly his time frame will start from there, as appropriate. [[They put a hand microphone in front of Dániel Z. Carpathian.]] Is the microphone okay? Then, Congressman, you have the floor.
u2016-11-21-222	The topic is more serious than to laugh at the technical shortcomings caused by the arrival of my fellow Member, János Volner, as the amazing state of the Hungarian national economy has evolved to the point that the 27 percent VAT rate, which has been baptized as a tax on the poor, represents a European Union record, makes life and daily prosperity of Hungarian families incredibly difficult, and indeed, cosmetic tax concessions cannot alleviate the brutal burden that the basic food for families living in a simple line means that this 27 percent VAT can be found in the majority of products of their consumer basket. Although Fidesz-KDNP has shown some concessions in cosmetic terms affecting between 6 and 7 percent of this consumer basket, the scope of its budget would be wider, so Jobbik has proposed to reduce the VAT base of basic foods from 27 to 5 percent, and in this case, following the excellent proposal of my fellow Member Dóra Dúró, we recommend the same for children's education articles, in the first instance, with a key reduced to 5 percent, and later, if you want to box this with the Union, even with a more moderate key, these products and product products will be taxed from the point of view of VAT. We must say that this government expects a population turn in a totally unjustified way, if the VAT duration of child-rearing articles is the highest in Hungary throughout Europe. We must add that, although we do not want the extent and extent of family tax incentives to be taken away, because it was a positive initiative to extend them, but once again the government did not think in a system, it did not think that, in addition to leaving other uncertainty factors, family tax relief alone could not lead this country to a population turn. We are not counter-incentives, but unfortunately, the latest statistics comparing this year's period with the previous period of the same year have shown, in my memory, a 0.2 percent decrease in live births. This means, therefore, that family tax incentives together, the uncertainty on the other side, employee poverty, a series of housing poverty and housing crises, 27 percent EU record VAT, the taxes on the poor and the emigration spiral brought the government there, so that it could not keep the number of living births alive compared to the same period of the previous year, even if it included a number of Hungarians born abroad in live birth statistics. So even cosmetically, we couldn't get the system to keep it at least zero. Fortunately for us, more than 8,000 fewer people died during the period under investigation, so we managed to reduce the rate of deceleration at least temporarily, but the fact is, according to experts, it depends on a flu virus. Unfortunately, there was an extensive virus in the previous year, and it could therefore be said that the rate of population loss continued to increase, since the 35,000 weight loss two years ago, which was already 40 000 weight loss, could be reported a year later. The question therefore arises as to why, in addition to family tax incentives, the government does not do anything about the elements of this system. How long can we ask, how long can we maintain the condition that this 27 percent brutal VAT rate affects each of the families concerned, that the housing crisis not only in the capital and in the big cities makes it often impossible to expand families and bring new children into the world? And we must say that the most grossly taxed activity in Hungary today is childbearing and raising. This implies an unsustainable state of affairs. It is therefore our motion with my fellow Members that the government should acknowledge the need to act in this area, admit that it would be its duty, its duty to act on a national strategy, and, where appropriate, at least use some of the benefits granted to multi-enterprises or your good friends to grant some budgetary concessions to Hungarian families, to Hungarian reproduction. We could also talk here about the fact that we are having a windmill fight every budget period, when my fellow Member György Szilágyi tells us how low the amount of money that could be used to support controlled reproduction processes could be, and that is to start towards population balance. To the extent required, you have never supported these motions. So be brave enough for you now, at least have the courage to discuss this matter. Thank you for the opportunity. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2016-11-21-223	Thank you very much, Congressman. A representative from each group of representatives can now speak in a two-minute time frame and the first independent representative to speak in a two-minute time frame. First, I give the floor to Mrs Ildikó Bangóné Borbély of the MSZP Group. Here you go, Congresswoman.
u2016-11-21-224	Thank you very much, Mr. President. The Hungarian Socialist Party supports the inclusion of this motion in the series. We ourselves have tried several times to reduce the tax on basic foods by the government. In front of me, Congressman said many things, but what must be said, in addition to the family tax relief, is that it was this government that immediately taxed the minimum wage in 2010, which was one of the biggest disasters for Hungarian families, as 2.4 million workers are known to be declared in Hungary today at minimum wage. When the socialists governed, we governed, the employees paid zero percent of the minimum wage. What is very important, my fellow Member, is that the babyboom announced by the government has been cancelled, we do not see the statistical data showing that birth numbers have increased, and we do not see exactly how many thousands of children are reported who have been born abroad because they refuse to provide official data. The other very important thing about family support, as I say every time, is that there are about 200,000 Hungarian couples, one in five Hungarian young couples who have fertility problems in Hungary. Last year, Gábor Zombor, former Secretary of State, said that there was a very strong government will to double the amount for IVF treatment. This is always 2 billion forints per year. I couldn't get that from the government. We've tried to do it several times. We are talking about the birth of the children we desire. If you're going to a flask treatment, you'd give anything to have a baby. It's not important to this government. 2 billion forints should be put into the budget. We haven't been able to do that in years. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2016-11-21-225	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Ms Erzsébet Schmuck asked for the floor from the LMP Group and she will be followed by Dóra Dúró. Here you go.
u2016-11-21-226	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, The LMP supports the inclusion of the proposal in the series. I note that it is quite sad to come to Parliament with such a package of proposals, in which there are items to reduce the tax on baby diapers, school booklets and pencils. We believe that the requests made in the proposal put forward by Jobbik are justified. Of course, there would be other products that could be classified here. We find the inclusion of firewood and charcoal as heating products an interesting element. Obviously this is because there are families in Hungary that can't even heat properly in winter, so children are cold. These, like some others, are not specifically linked to child rearing, but generally reflect the problems of people living in poverty and poverty. All this, of course, can only be fire-fighting. The goal would really be for everyone to have a job and make a living out of it. As we have already said in many cases, the LMP proposes a tax arrangement that would increase the net value of the minimum wage by HUF 23,000 to HUF 98 thousand. This would help both families with children and families with no children. It is important to help children's educators, but we cannot leave anyone on the side of the road, we think, who is in need, and the Fidesz government is tearing society apart enough. Reducing the costs of raising children can only have the desired effect by spending more on education, especially in disadvantaged areas, so that education is an instrument of cohesion and not a means of integrating differences. The shoes are important for the child to get to school, but there he must also find a good education. So once again, we support the inclusion of the series of subjects. [[17.40]]
u2016-11-21-227	Thank you very much, Madam Group leader. As I have already said, it is up to Mrs Dóra Dúró from the Jobbik Group. Here you go, Congresswoman.
u2016-11-21-228	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, I would like to highlight in my speech the one aspect of our proposal to minimise the VAT on the articles needed to raise children, since my fellow Member, Mr Dániel Z. Kárpát, spoke in the rapporteur's exposé about the overall social policy and demographic impact. What I would like to talk about - and taking out a little detail - is to help start a school, because that is what the proposal is largely about. In Hungary this year, in 2016, two independent surveys were carried out, also independent of the government and all parties, about how much more the school start was costing an average family than, say, two years ago. Both surveys have resulted in the fact that, yes, compared to 2014, the school start costs 10,000 HUF per child more than two years ago. So the government's actions over the past two years have resulted in the cost of training a child today more expensive than it was two years ago. This is why we need to radically reduce the VAT on the articles needed to raise children and the articles needed to start school so that this can provide a predictable vision for families who otherwise have children with a decent education. This is also necessary because there is a school obligation in Hungary. If children are required to go to school, parents are obliged to train their children, the purchase of the necessary equipment also imposes an obligation on parents, so the state should also help families to bear the costs of starting school according to our values. This is a total investment in society, which, by the way, will be repaid on a value-based and otherwise economic basis. Please support our motion. Thank you. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2016-11-21-229	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. I will ask my fellow Members if anyone else wishes to speak in the debate. [[No signal.]] Now I respectfully ask the authors who will respond to what has been said. [[For signal:]] Thank you very much. I receive the information, Mrs Dóra Dúró will respond on behalf of the authors to what has been said in the debate. Here you go, Congresswoman.
u2016-11-21-230	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I would like to begin with a personal remark. In 2010, I was a Member of Parliament about three weeks ago as Tamás Gaudi-Nagy's benchmate, and that was the first time I faced the fact that someone was speaking after himself. That's never happened to me before. [[Defiance.]] It's the only and first time I've ever had, so after six years, it happened to me. With regard to this proposal, I am very sorry that the governing parties do not give an opinion at all, nor do they consider this proposal worthy of standing up and expressing their objections, because they did not support the inclusion of this series of things in the committee. Fidesz also does not consider it appropriate to reduce the VAT on articles needed to raise children so that it can be debated at all during the plenary session. How committed are you then to supporting families in Hungary? We see that the family policy measures that we do not dispute, we do not dispute that family tax relief is a real help to families, and they also have a number of other measures in this area that we have supported, but if we look at the results of this, we see that the result is zero. As a result of your family policy, the birth rate in Hungary has not increased significantly, and even decreased this year compared to last year. So no babyboom, no demographic progress has simply not been achieved in Hungary. If we ask young couples how many children they want, they will answer in Hungary: two or three. By the way, in Western Europe, they do not respond, there are not so many children planned, the Hungarians are planning. And if we ask them why they only take one of these, what do they say? That's because that's what they can afford. It's a shame! The government must help families and young people to have children, not only because it is a matter of values, but also because it is the most important issue in Hungary today, so that the desired children can be born, because it will simply not be sustainable. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] social security and public finances. Thank you for your attention. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2016-11-21-231	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Ladies and gentlemen, The decision will take place on our meeting tomorrow. There is now a debate on the report before the final vote and the proposal for an amendment before the final vote on the amendment of certain laws relating to tobacco control. The government referral is T/12371. Number 2 is available on the Parliament's IT network. The legislative committee's proposal for amendment before the final vote is T/12371/14 and its report before the final vote is T/1271/15. The website is also available for everyone. The debate will be the first to present the position of the Legislative Committee within a 15-minute time frame. I give the floor to Mr Imre Pesti, rapporteur of the committee. Here you go, Congressman.
u2016-11-21-232	Thank you. Mr President, Dear House, I hereby inform the Parliament that the Legislative Committee2016. T/12371 discussed on the 17th of November. a bill on the amendment of certain laws relating to the control of tobacco. In this context, Regulation No 10/2014 on certain house rules. Parliamentary resolution 54. It adopted by 26 votes in favour, 6 votes against and 2 abstentions a report before the final vote and an amendment before the final vote containing the following. The motion proposed to clarify the concept of products with modified effects in order to include electronic cigarettes complying with the rules of the Directive in the category of products with modified effects and, where appropriate, subject to reduced conditions of sale. It also addresses and improves the coherence identified in the single proposal. Ladies and gentlemen, At a committee meeting, I was pleased to hear that my colleagues in the opposition bench also acknowledge that the introduction of the traff system was a measure three years ago that significantly reduced the access of young people to tobacco products. I hope that we can count on you not only in the course of tomorrow's day on the proposals on this subject, but also in the interest of all of us to ensure a consistent representation of the health policy goals. I therefore ask that we continue to work together in efforts to reduce smoking and support the bill. Thank you. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-11-21-233	Thank you very much, Congressman. The speeches will now be held by the Members of the European Parliament, for 5-5 minutes by group of Members and for a total of 3 minutes by independent Members. I will ask my fellow Members if anyone wishes to speak in the debate. [[For signal:]] Yes, I give the floor to Mr István Szávay of the Jobbik Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2016-11-21-234	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, We are pleased to see that, after six years, we have finally succeeded in bringing a bill for smoking to the House, which we can wholeheartedly support, and with this I will shoot the joke at the beginning. This proposal is about two things, or it has two parts. Both concern issues that Jobbik has consistently represented for more than a year now, and we have said this before the House on several occasions, even partially arguing with Fidesz MEPs on this issue. One is whether electric cigarettes are even considered tobacco products. Electric... - government communication is still about electronic, but maybe we'll jump past that sometime, so we're talking about electric cigarettes, not tobacco. E-cigarettes are not a tobacco product and the person using an electric cigarette is not a smoker. This is very important. We are very pleased that you have finally managed to get here in this recognition, and we appreciate this somewhat in our own success, and I really thank you for the fact that Mr. Secretary of State has kept his promise and is deeply involved in the professional studies that I gave him a few months ago about the effects of electric cigarettes. This may also be the result of this change of perspective, and of the civilians who have worked on this subject, especially the Electricity Association. [[17.50]] The second question, which Mr Pesti has also mentioned, namely that you finally acknowledge that electric cigarettes are not tobacco products, obviously creates the possibility that we have also criticized on many occasions so that they can be sold not only among tobacco products, but only in tobacco products. I hope that the relevant government regulations will be in place soon on this. With you, of course, we agreed earlier that smoking should be curbed. We have had our debates on this matter, whether it be the Traffic Act, to which Congressman Pesti referred. Now let's not go into how, in what way and to whom you have distributed the tobacco products, this could be a separate debate, and we have already debated this quite a lot, but we can clearly see that these were good measures in terms of reducing young people's smoking, reducing tobacco sales and keeping them in the system. This also applies to the distribution of tobacco itself. We hope that electric cigarettes will also be sold with appropriate guarantees that the protection of minors will also apply here. However, I would like to draw attention to one or two other problems. One is the issue of excise duty and registration fees, which are currently so high that it makes the sale of electric cigarettes easily impossible. The other is to narrow down the flavors that the EMMI is planning. There is a reason why a sensible compromise could be reached here and to examine how flavours could be reduced or some flavours could be developed, such as those which may be particularly attractive to minors; but I would not consider it good or appropriate in any case to eliminate flavours, because this would actually eliminate the meaning of electric cigarettes and would obviously not be attractive to consumers. So we can support the proposal. In many ways, we see and feel that our previous opinion is reflected in this. We hope that proper detailed regulation will be established in the future, preferably this year, on the one hand, as regards how and in what form the restriction on electric cigarettes will be lifted, namely that it can only be obtained in tobacco shops and what regulation will apply to electric cigarettes shops. I trust that the intention is for these specialised shops to reopen themselves, where truly qualified, competent staff can serve those who want to switch to electric cigarettes instead of smoking. It is also a very important issue, which we discussed earlier, that electric cigarettes are not the hallway to smoking, but a means to quit smoking. In this connection, let me quote the Eurobarometer research: in 2014, so two years ago, 6.1 million of the citizens of the European Union completely quit smoking with the help of electric cigarettes. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, If we can hear something from you about what ideas we have for further detailed regulation, it would be good to have one. Overall, the two points that this bill or this proposal after the final vote is about, we are pleased to support and indicate that the Jobbik faction itself will support the bill with the reasons given, the joys expressed and one or two reservations expressed. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2016-11-21-235	Thank you very much, Congressman. I will ask my fellow Members if anyone else wishes to speak in the debate. [[There's no candidate.]] I don't see any contact. The debate is closed. I would like to inform the House that the decisions will take place on our meeting tomorrow. Next up is the 1994 XXXIV on Police. and the discussion of the Commission's reports on the amendment of Act C of 2003 on electronic communications and the summary amendment proposal. The government referral is T/12714. The Commission is available on the Parliament's IT network, together with non-autonomous motions. The debate will be the first to present the position of the Legislative Committee within a 15-minute time frame. I give the floor to Congressman Vas Imre, rapporteur of the committee. Here you go, Congressman.
u2016-11-21-236	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, I would like to inform the Parliament that the Legislative Committee discussed the 1994 XXXIV on the police force last Thursday. Act T/12714, amending Act C of 2003 on electronic communications The Committee presented a proposal for amendment and a summary report with 29 yes and 6 non-voting votes. The summarised amendment includes, on the one hand, the proposed amendment of the Defence and Police Committee and, on the other hand, the legislative committee's own proposals, which override the amendment of the commission in one point. The Commission did not support the LMP's proposal to reject the amendment to the police law. Point 6 of the Commission's proposal to close the detailed debate submitted by the Defence and Police Committee contains Article 21 of Act C of 2003 on electronic communications. Paragraph 7 shall be replaced by a text change. In view of the fact that the Act on Electronic Communications is a full III. Chapter IX of the Fundamental Law Article 21 (6) provides that the Legislative Committee is to be regarded as a fundamental one, so that the Committee of Lawmaking is to be included in Article 21. Paragraph 7 of the Act also submitted a proposal for amendment with a cardinality clause, and therefore certain points of the bill are considered to be fundamental. In view of Hungary's national security, crime prevention and law enforcement interests, in particular with regard to counter-terrorism, it is necessary to strengthen the rules in force in order to prevent and eliminate abuse of mobile radiotelephone services by prepaid subscribers in everyday language. The amendment therefore states that the subscriber of a prepaid subscriber mobile telephone service may no longer sell the subscription and that the SIM card allowing the use of the subscriber service may be handed over to a third party if the third party is in accordance with Article 129. Before the transfer of the SIM card, the electronic communications service provider shall be informed of the data necessary for its identification pursuant to paragraph 2 of Section 2. The transfer shall not constitute a third party if the transfer is between close relatives. By amending the Electronic Communications Act, the provider will be obliged to verify and record the relevant data of the subscriber. In the absence of a successful data check, the subscriber contract may not be concluded or transferred. In view of the significant burden on mobile operators compared to the proposal submitted, I proposed to amend the 8-day entry into force of the original law to 30 days from the date of publication. This was supported by the committee. I would ask you to support the bill in the final vote. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of Fidesz.]]
u2016-11-21-237	Thank you, Congressman. I would like to ask Mr Tibor Pogácsás, State Secretary, if he wishes to speak on behalf of the rapporteur. [[Tibor Scones: Not now.]] He doesn't want to. Thank you very much. Thus, if you wish to conclude, then you have a 10-minute window of time at your disposal, Secretary of State. I now give the floor to Congressman Miklós Simon, rapporteur of the designated Defence and Police Committee. Here you go, Congressman. [[18.00]]
u2016-11-21-238	Dear House, Dear Parliament, The board of the house rules are 44-45. It held a detailed discussion of the bill on the basis of Article 5 of the Act. Having examined the bill, he found that it was in compliance with house rules 44. The requirements of paragraph 1 of paragraph 1 of this Article shall apply. During the in-depth discussion, the Committee discussed the amendments tabled, examining whether they complied with the house rules 42. the requirements laid down in Section 2 of this Annex. The Committee's supported representatives submitted proposals for amendments, as well as the Commission's proposal for an amendment to close the detailed debate. The National Defence and Police Committee closed the detailed discussion of the bill on 15 November 2016. Thank you very much for your attention. [[It's a rare round of applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-11-21-239	Thank you very much, Congressman. It is now up to the Members to speak within the time-frame on the agenda. First, Congressman Miklós Simon asked for the floor from the Fidesz Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2016-11-21-240	Thank you. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, The bill tabled by the Minister of the Interior would amend two laws. With regard to the law on police, the general rules on police processing and data processing would be added to new provisions. The current proposal would amend the regulation on facilities of major importance for the functioning of the state and the care of the population. Important guarantee rules will also be included in the regulation. Another amendment to the law on police is to allow the police to handle and hand over fingerprints of third-country nationals as part of the border police register in order to combat terrorism. In addition, the most important regulatory area of the bill is the case of so-called prepaid SIM cards. In October of this year, it was discovered that a criminal organized in the name of a homeless person purchased a SIM card with 200,000 uploads. Part of the cards were transferred to the terrorist cell implementing terrorist acts in Paris and Brussels. The Ministry of Interior then promised to review the necessary changes, so the current proposal would amend the Electronic Communications Act to settle the rules on prepaid SIM cards and their data management. In view of Hungary's national security, crime prevention and law enforcement interests, it is necessary to adapt and tighten up the existing rules. During the general debate, all parliamentary parties indicated that, at the meeting of the National Security Committee, the parliamentary parties had been given a report on the current situation and an agreement was already reached on the tightening of the current regulation. The Ministry of Interior has also convened a five-party consultation, with agreement on the details of the tightening up. The Commission's amendment included the proposals adopted at the five-party conciliation because the strengthening was agreed between the pro-government and opposition representatives. The amendment thus states that these subscriptions cannot be further sold and that the SIM card allowing the use of the subscriber service may be transferred to a third party if the information required for identification has been communicated by the subscriber to the subscriber prior to the transfer of the SIM card. The provider will be obliged to verify and record the relevant data of the subscriber and to review it annually. In the absence of a successful data check, the subscriber contract will not be possible in the future. Ladies and gentlemen, The Fidesz fraction supports the bill so that these necessary changes can take effect, because with these amendments such abuses will be manageable and safety risks can be reduced. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2016-11-21-241	Thank you very much, Congressman. From the MSZP Group, it is up to Mrs Márta Demeter. Here you go, Congresswoman.
u2016-11-21-242	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Unfortunately, they have once again prepared the bill before us with the usual pro-government trick. The Fidesz government has once again submitted its legislative proposals in tying up socially important issues also promoted by the MSZP. The essence of this many-time, despicable political charade is to present as traitors to important matters those who reject the laws of Fidesz that further destroy the rule of law. By the way, tomorrow we will vote on two of these laws in Parliament. One of them is the bill right before us. For 30 years, the Fidesz government has placed a completely unacceptable provision that encrypts all technical data of public and public service institutions into the law which, by the way, seeks to eliminate the illegal market of anonymous SIM cards serving criminals and terrorists. Of course, this latter goal is also very important to us. In this connection, we had proposals, which were actually incorporated into this amendment by the governing parties. However, when we made these proposals, we predicted that if it remains in this law that they will make all public service investment data completely opaque and that they want to hide all technical data for 30 years, we will not support the bill. I think that this whole procedure, which works, is that otherwise socially important goals, which are supported by everyone, are linked to completely unacceptable things, and that they are indeed linked to measures that undermine the rule of law, are disastrous. So, in fact, no opposition party can allow Fidesz to hold important social issues hostage, but it is actually blackmailing them with law-breaking laws. Therefore, we will not support this bill tomorrow. Thank you, Mr. President. [[A rare applause in the ranks of the MSZP.]]
u2016-11-21-243	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. I am now asking my fellow Members if anyone else would like to speak in the debate. [[There's no candidate.]] I do not see an application; the debate is closed. I now give the floor to Congressman Tibor Pogácsás, Mr Secretary of State, on behalf of the rapporteur, so that he can make a closing statement. Here you go, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor.
u2016-11-21-244	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, On the basis of what was said during the general debate on the bill and during the Commission's negotiations, it seems clear that the amendment of the law on police and the law on electronic communications is considered necessary and justified by the majority. The purpose of the amendment to the law on police is to reject the need for technical data directly related to the safe operation of facilities of major importance for the functioning of the State or for the care of the public, as well as the need to know the data relating to the operation of the facility and the protection of persons, in the interest of national security, or in order to prevent criminal offences, if the knowledge of the data is detrimental to Hungary's interests in the prevention of national security or criminal offences. The purpose of the amendment to the law on the police is to allow the police to process and hand over fingerprints of third-country nationals as part of the border police register in order to combat terrorism. [[18.10]] The purpose of the amendment of the Electronic Communications Act is to prevent and eliminate abuse of prepaid mobile radiotelephony services, i.e. prepaid mobile radiotelephony services, in view of Hungary's national security, crime prevention and law enforcement interests, in particular counter-terrorism. The Committee on Defence and Police summarized the minor technical clarifications contained in the amendment proposed by some of its representatives to close the in-depth debate. These were agreed by the Government in the form set out in the amendment closing the Commission's in-depth debate. On the basis of the supported proposals, the President of the National Media and Infocommunications Authority establishes in a regulation the number of subscriber contracts for the provision of prepaid mobile radiotelephony services to subscribers. The mobile operator shall check the details of the third person to whom the subscriber is handing his uploading card. The service provider shall have an obligation to verify the identity of the subscriber on an annual basis from the date of conclusion of the contract. The service provider shall send a signal to the law enforcement authorities if there is an abnormal circumstance regarding the authenticity of the customer identification information or the subscription. In addition, verification of the subscriber's identity will be possible by registering online. The reasons for the termination of the subscriber contract with immediate effect have also been defined. The regulation has changed that if the subscriber does not inform the service provider of the data of the third person to whom the SIM card has been transferred before the transfer of the SIM card, the service provider shall terminate the subscriber contract within a five-day deadline. The bill was supplemented by the transitional provision that a subscriber with a charge card exceeding the number laid down in the regulation of the President of the National Media and Infocommunications Authority is required to declare by 30 June 2017 which of his contracts exceeding the specified number he intends to maintain. The rest of the subscriber's contracts shall be terminated from 1 July 2017. In addition, the bill is supplemented with empowering provisions on the basis of which the government may establish the body to which the service provider sends a signal, and the President of the National Media and Infocommunications Authority regulates the number of prepaid card contracts by requesting the opinion of the Minister for the Governance of civil national security services. It can be seen that government-supported proposals include tightening the rules on prepaid phones in order to achieve the objective of regulation. In my view, the amendment of both the law on police and electronic communications contributes to improving the security of our country and the effectiveness of counter-terrorism. Dear House, Dear Parliament, I call for the proposals submitted to be supported, as has been said. Thank you for the floor, Mr President. [[It's a rare applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-11-21-245	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I would like to inform my fellow Members that the decisions will take place tomorrow at our meeting. We now have the Commission's reports on the amendment of certain tax laws and other related laws and the discussion of the summarised amendment proposal. The government referral T/12741. The Commission's non-autonomous texts are available on the Parliament's IT network. The debate will be the first to present the position of the Legislative Committee within a 15-minute time frame. I give the floor to Congressman Dénes Galambos, rapporteur of the committee. Here you go, Congressman.
u2016-11-21-246	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, I hereby inform the Parliament that the Legislative Committee has discussed the T/12741. on the amendment of certain tax laws and other related laws. Bill No. 1. In view of the broad scope of the amendments, the Committee discussed the text at two readings, presented a summary amendment proposal and a summary report on 18 November 2016. The summarised amendment includes, on the one hand, the legislative committee's own proposals, which in 18 points surpasses the Committee's 105-point amendment proposal; the remainder of the committee's proposal was also supported by the Legislative Committee. The Legislative Committee's own proposal states that the 1996 LXXXI on corporation tax and dividend tax. It is also necessary to clarify Annex 1 to the Tao Law. As long as the amendment of Annex 2 to the Tao Act by the bill, i.e. the addition of the special description key for water utility lines, ensures only in the case of new water utilities that, in the case of replacement of the description key, it is possible to comply with actual ageing, in the case of ageing water utility systems, that the effect of the original modification would be expressed contrary to the original intention. In order not to create an unjustified tax disadvantage for the national owned water utility service provider, which takes over the public interest and thus transfers keys corresponding to actual depreciation, it is necessary to amend point 5 (b) of Annex 1 laying down the rules for depreciation of corporate tax and dividend tax so as to recognise, in the case of assets operated under asset management, the depreciation costs that can be eligible in proportion to the actual depreciation in accordance with the Accounting Act. My oral addition to this point was supported by the Committee in order to include the material assets necessary to carry out the basic activity of water utilities. The reason for this is that, in order to eliminate sectoral impacts within the water utility service sector, it is appropriate to amend point 5 of Annex 1 to the relevant Annex, in the case of providers of national assets which carry out their core activity to maintain the water utility service provider network. Just as my colleague György Balla's proposal was adopted by the Legislative Committee, who clarified the definition of poultry meat in order to include poultry by-products and offal in the proposal, in Hungarian for the whole poultry. In order to reduce VAT, we adopted the motion of my fellow Member in the Legislative Committee, acting in accordance with the real intention of the bill. In addition to the above, the key objective of the amendments contained in the bill is to bring about a simplification of taxation and to introduce tax policy measures that promote the above-mentioned headline targets. I ask your support for all of this. Thank you for listening. [[It's a rare applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-11-21-247	Thank you very much, Congressman. I will ask Mr András Tállai, State Secretary, if he wishes to speak now. [[For signal:]] No. That will give you ten minutes to close, Mr. Secretary of State. Since the designated Economic Committee has not presented a rapporteur, I am now asking my fellow Members who would like to speak in the debate. I will also inform my fellow Members that there is no possibility of two-minute speeches during the debate. The first of the Fidesz Group is to speak to Mr Mihály Witzmann. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2016-11-21-248	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, The T/12741. The Legislative Committee discussed bill No 1 at last week's meeting and submitted an amendment to this House, in addition to the amendments that have been made to date. Before briefly addressing the summarised amendment, please allow me to remind you of the fundamental objectives of the measures contained in the bill. The proposal before us aims at simplifying tax legislation, reducing public burdens and administrative burden and increasing the competitiveness of domestic businesses, introducing new rules such as the reduction of administration in the payment of the health contribution tax, as the proposal suggests that the previous five-key system will be reduced to two-key ones, so that, among other things, the proposal removes the 6 per cent obligation so far, and the public contribution to health in relation to pay-seeing activities will have to be paid in the future in the form of personal income tax. It is also easier to reduce the amount of 15 percent of eho to 14 percent so far. The aim of the proposal is also to reduce the tax burden by introducing new facilitations, namely tax exemptions, for grants and scholarships under various scholarships, in line with the transformation of the legislative institutional environment. [[18.20]] This means that, for example, the VET Bridge Programme or the Balassi Bálint Scholarship Programme were included in the tax-free category. Another positive feature of the proposal is that in order to increase competitiveness, there will also be a benefit for restaurants using live music services from next year. It can therefore be said that the proposal we are discussing contains technical clarifications to assist in the application of the law and amendments to further reduce the administration and comply with the obligations of harmonisation. This is, of course, largely due to the fact that the main tax legislation for next year, including, of course, next year's budget, was already negotiated and adopted by the Parliament in the spring session, which greatly increases planning and predictability. I would like to note here that the amendments tabled in the context of the summarised amendment are also largely intended for codification clarifications and for the resolution of language adversarials. In addition, the summarised amendment also takes into account the fact that from 1 January 2017 the application of excise duty will be newly applied to the filling fluid used for electric cigarettes, since this product has not yet been subject to excise duty, and therefore the amending proposal proposes to reduce the rate of taxation by around 15% compared to those previously laid down in order to keep the increase in consumer prices which, in view of the level of admission tax, remain as moderate as possible. The amendment of the Tao Law, to supplement this law with the special description key for water utility lines, as mentioned earlier by my fellow Member, Dénes Galambos, allows water utilities to use depreciation keys corresponding to actual depreciation in the event of replacement in the future. The proposal also provides a discount for payment service providers that can significantly increase their customer holdings, including, of course, their credit holdings, by the end of 2017, by more than or equal to 20 per cent compared to the end of 2015. The aim of the proposal is also to increase fiscal tax revenues primarily by increasing the basis for payment of the transaction levy, since lending activity of credit institutions is an important factor in increasing domestic economic growth. This amending proposal aims to increase the expected budget revenues by strengthening the interest of payment service providers in increasing the transaction fee base. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Parliament, In the light of what I have said, I would like to ask that, in addition to the above comments, you support both the content of the summarised amendment proposal and the report of the Legislative Committee. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2016-11-21-249	Thank you very much, Congressman. Mr János Volner of the Jobbik Group asked for the floor. Here you go, Congressman, Mr. Group Leader, you have the floor.
u2016-11-21-250	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, When, in the debate on tax laws, we told Jobbik that this bill was not sufficiently prepared, there were no impact assessments, unfortunately life justified our words. Think of the fact that the approved summary amending report, through 74 pages, seeks to correct errors and shortcomings, which are included in the original tax proposal. So once again, for 74 pages, this is a continuous correction of these errors and shortcomings. So it is quite extensive, even the regulation that seeks to correct this failed tax policy in a way, at least from a legal point of view. There are several points I would like to draw your attention to. One is the level of corporate tax and the relevant government proposal. By this step, the government will reduce the corporate tax rate to 9 per cent, this proposal will help the largest and the richest companies, and the budget will be expected to lose between HUF 170 and HUF 145 billion due to this tax reduction. I would say, of course, that if there had been such a need for a wage increase for employees in Hungary, it would have been advisable not to support the largest and richest companies with similar discounts from the Hungarian taxpayers' money, but to do so so that workers' wages could increase by reducing taxes and contributions. Unfortunately, this measure has been cancelled in this case, because the government's representation of the largest and richest companies was the first, not the representation of the interests of the people. I agree that both the tax exemption for the subject and the income threshold for the taxpayer are increasing. By the way, Mr State Secretary, I have already made a proposal for this during the previous government cycle, but it was the Fidesz-KDNP government who voted against this proposal. We have made this proposal because we have seen these opportunities being used for the benefit of other Member States of the European Union. If the European Union allows businesses to carry out tax-free activities for VAT up to an appropriate threshold, then other Member States have made much better use of this, it is very conservative in Hungary and I must say that the government has remained very much behind in this respect. I also think it is important to say how shady the Orbán government acted in relation to the transaction fees regulated by the bill, how this was introduced and how the burden was passed on to people by credit institutions and by account managers. What happened to this? The Orbán government introduced a transaction tax of 0.1 per cent, and shortly thereafter this value has tripled to 0.3 per cent, and virtually a transit tax has taken place. When credit institutions informed their clients in their account letters that they would pass the transaction fee on to them, of course, they did not write this, but said that transaction costs would increase at the bank, a number of studies and professional newspaper articles confirmed that the transaction costs had increased by just as much as the transaction tax had to be paid by the bank. Although you call this tax a levy, there is a conceptual difference and a difference in content between the two. So what happened was that the amount of the transaction tax could be passed on at the same time by the managing banks to the general public and to the small businesses that kept their accounts. Larger businesses were better off, since they took their financial centre from Hungary more than once because they were hit by this regulation. By the way, the large contractor Gábor Wide, who is supporting you, organised a peace process for the government, also wrote that if the transaction fee is to come into force in this form as planned by the government, the Videoton Group will have to expect a billion-dollar extra costs. Unfortunately, the government has not taken due account of these warnings. I also think it is very important to say that when the car tax issue was raised, Mr State Secretary, the government had a clear commitment, that there will be 65 thousand electric and hybrid cars in Hungary. Compared to this, the number of these is currently around 1200, but now the government is introducing restrictive measures in this area as well, it will hit these vehicles with a company car according to its own plans. The question is how would you like to achieve a significant increase in the number of electric and hybrid cars. I don't see it that way. And let me recommend, Mr. Secretary, a specific example of another tax type to your attention. Here, the water utility is regulated by the bill, but there is another very important package of proposals for other electricity and gas utilities, which is also in front of the Parliament. What is happening in this case? Take a look at the fact that András Vinkovits, the CEO of which was András Vinkovits, who worked in the administration of Fidesz during the first Orbán government, confirms to the professional audience that the positive impact of the reduction of the rent cannot be shown to consumers because the gas-producing company is handing over the billions in the form of line maintenance and system maintenance fees to the main district. In particular, Mr Secretary of State, we are talking about the need for a line fee of HUF 250-300 million to replace depreciation, which has to be paid, this pipeline tax, which the Orbán government has very cleverly imposed, and it is actually being paid by the general public, since the main distance charges roughly HUF 2.5 billion per year to the gas service company on this title. [[18.30]] Therefore, the HUF 2.5 billion that could be retained by Hungarian people only in the case of Budapest, only in the case of district heating, will be passed on to people in this way, and Hungarian consumers cannot benefit from low gas prices because the Orbán government does not allow it. This was the same professionally flawed measure as when gas prices were frozen at the beginning of the last cycle - not a price ceiling was drawn for the first time, Mr Secretary, but gas prices were frozen - when the time came for a reduction on the world market and these gas prices could have been released, these prices were preserved at a higher price level because of the frozen prices and the result of the reduction in the prices did not reach people. And then, when the government made the reduction of the rent, of course, it was easy to cut artificially prices in this way. However, this is a scam of people, a foot-slaughter of the overhead, it's an unprofessional, bad proposal. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2016-11-21-251	Thank you very much, Mr. Group Leader. The next speaker was Ms Erzsébet Schmuck, Head of the LMP Group. Here you go, Madam Group Leader.
u2016-11-21-252	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, In the context of the summary amendment, we have to talk about two related elements that do not appear, even though they promised to talk about it: one is the reduction in contributions and the other is the single rate of corporate income tax for large companies whose profits exceed HUF 500 million, their profit tax would be reduced from 19% to 9%, which is a 10% reduction. We believe that both cases show that the government no longer cares about the workers, only about the elite, about the rich being richer, and about the poor and the poor middle class paying more than the military officer. Starting with the latter, LMP also said that this step is amazing, in no way improves the situation of our economy, whereas it brings the multinationals competitive advantage over small domestic businesses compared to the current situation. Even in the current situation, they have a strong dominant position, and the government now strongly supports this with taxpayers' money. It is also difficult to understand as compensation for raising the minimum wage, as it also affects smaller companies, while now only the big ones would receive a significant reduction. This step is a truly amazing, pure neoliberal step, perfect service to the profit hunger of foreign capital at the expense of the country. The government calculates that it will take 145 billion out of the budget, but there are other calculations that estimate this much more: 170-180 billion forints. We believe that this money will be missing from education, health, innovation, the development of future industries, and that it will be lacking to take the necessary steps in reality, such as tax-free minimum wage or reduced contributions. At present, employers have not accepted the government's proposal to increase the minimum wage and reduce corporate tax, but are asking for a reduction of six per cent of their employer's contributions. The LMP believes that neither party is right: we do not need a corporate tax reduction for multinationals, and instead of reducing the employer's contribution, which would cost 600 billion, we think there is a better solution. As a first step, one-key personal income tax should be abolished, the minimum wage exempt and the progressive personal income tax of LMP introduced - this would cost only HUF 250 billion. And if there is a reduction in contributions, then the contributions of the workers should be reduced, which would immediately appear as a net increase in wages. Even though Viktor Orbán recognized two weeks ago that the model based on cheap wages did not work, we see that they want to choose the wrong tools again. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of Jobbik and MSZP.]]
u2016-11-21-253	Thank you very much, Madam Group leader. I will ask my fellow Members if anyone else wishes to speak in the debate. [[No one's reporting.]] I don't see any contact. The debate is closed. I am now asking Mr András Tállai, State Secretary, if you would like to respond to what has been said in the debate. [[András Tállai rises to speak.]] Yes, he does. Secretary of State, you have a ten-minute time frame at your disposal. Here you go.
u2016-11-21-254	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, First, I would like to respond to the speeches of the two opposition group leaders, a Member. I would like to say to Mr János Volner that we cannot support his amendment, because his proposal is certainly based on a misunderstanding, according to which de minimis aid to improve tax administration should continue to be regarded as a tax advantage for environmentally sound cars in the car tax and in the company car tax. I therefore reassure the Member that the tax advantages in question will not be repealed, will be maintained, and even their use will be considerably easier. I can tell you that this is the mistake your current speech is based on. On the one hand, in addition to the need to debate the amendments, you are bringing here an issue on which there is social debate and consultation, the question of reducing corporate tax. So, if I understand correctly, Jobbik is against tax reductions, at least on the basis of his speech, with the argument that companies that pay higher tax rates now have to pay less. It doesn't even occur to you that perhaps the source that these companies are saving is being spent on development, investment and thus creating new jobs, and, on the other hand, on achieving the wage advantage for their employees. I believe that the proposal that is currently being debated or negotiated between employers, workers and the government will indeed serve to improve competitiveness. In the same way, it brings here a transaction duty issue, which is not part of the bill, this is a well-educated, almost all of its speeches to the head of the group, and I do not understand how this comes here, but also the issue of reducing the rent. I would rather have suggested to you that you read the bill, that more than 300 paragraphs, and then you are not talking about them, but that this bill is true, extensive, but that it is designed to reduce tax bureaucracy, facilitate simplification, and therefore its fundamental objective is to improve competitiveness. I can say the same to the head of the LMP faction, who will give his speech as usual. [[Erzsébet Schmuck from Sándor Burány: Here it is!]] Then he'll leave the room. [[Erzsébet Schmuck: No, he's here!]]
u2016-11-21-255	Mr. Secretary, if you look to the right, you'll see that the Head of the Group is here. [[Erzsébet Schmuck: As usual, he won't leave, he's here!]]
u2016-11-21-256	I'm honored, I'm very honored, your former fellow Member did this. But I'm glad that you're friends with the MSZP. [[Erzsébet Schmuck: We must!]] Despite the many, many criticisms you've received. [[Sándor Burány: You can't always be friends with Fides, Mr. Secretary of State.]] It's, I'll tell you honestly... However, I cannot be comfortable with what you have said in this particular issue by criticising the reduction of contributions and the reduction of corporate tax, which is also, I stress, not part of the bill. However, you have made it clear and courageous, and I respect that you are in favour of raising taxes. [[Erzsébet Schmuck: No way!]] , he repeated again that in terms of personal income tax, there is a need to raise taxes, because that is a saving solution. Ladies and gentlemen of the opposition, This bill does not serve this purpose. This bill serves to simplify, competitiveness and reduce public burdens in terms of personal income tax as well as corporate tax or financial transaction tax. It also includes a simplification of the local trade tax, as proposed by the Economic Committee, and a reduction in excise duty compared to the original plan, as the rate of excise duty for e-cigarettes is reduced from 65 ml to 55 ml. There is an important and far-reaching facilitation in the Tax Act when we create the legal conditions for the National Tax and Customs Office to prepare the draft tax return instead of the taxpayers, and also for those who otherwise do not have a customer gate. [[18.40]] It is very important that the rules of procedure of the tax office change, and a supportive procedure is introduced, the essence of which is that taxpayers who do not consciously and intentionally make mistakes are ruining their tax returns, they do not have the possibility of being fined, but will be able to repair them, and this does not constitute a penalty for them. Indeed, there is also tightening up, for example, amendments to the electronic road traffic control system strengthen the reduction of fraudulent tax behaviour. The deadline for introducing rules on food and beverage vending machines is extended to 30 June 2017. Ladies and gentlemen, There are also clarifications in the area of customs regulation, which is harmonised at EU level. The provisions directly applicable and applicable in the customs legislation of the Union shall also apply for the first time in the case of customs security rules. Therefore, in line with EU legislation, the amendment states that, as regards the rules for the signing of the ready-paying guarantor contract, the Ptk. It was necessary to derogate from its rules because, according to customs legislation, the signature of the undertaking is sufficient for the validity of the undertaking and does not require the signature of the debtor. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, I thank both the pro-government and opposition representatives for their activity in the debate for their intention to amend, and I ask the House, the Honourable Parliament, my fellow Members, to adopt the bill with their vote tomorrow, because this is in the interests of the country. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2016-11-21-257	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear House, I would like to inform the congressional ladies and gentlemen that the decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting. The next step is the 1952 III Civil Procedure Act. Act 1 and Act CXXIV of 2015 on National Accreditation Discussion of the Commission's report on the proposed amendment to the Act. Government referral T/12697. The Commission is available on the parliamentary IT network together with its non-autonomous motions. I am now asking Mr István Lepsényi, State Secretary, if you would like to speak now on behalf of the rapporteur. [[On the signal of István Lepsényi:]] He doesn't want to. I would like to inform the Secretary of State that there will be a ten-minute deadline for closing. Thank you very much. I will also inform this House that the designated Judicial Committee has not presented a rapporteur. It is now time for the speeches by its representatives. I will ask my fellow Members if anyone wishes to speak in the time frame. I give the floor first from the MSZP Group to Mr István Józsa. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2016-11-21-258	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, You now have to correct a sad legacy, we could also call the guillotine law CXXIV of 2015 on national accreditation. Act which abolished the National Accreditation Board as a public body without successor, thus cutting off all the rights that existed in the European Accreditation Cooperation Organisation and thus entitled to full accreditation, representing the interests of hundreds and even thousands of Hungarian companies that were able to obtain accreditation under normal domestic conditions at domestic prices. So, as I said, honourable Secretary of State, you must review a sad legacy. You don't have to admit it. You just need to know. You're a professional, your predecessor, Mr. Kristóf Szatmáry wasn't, so it's no coincidence that you're involved in such a legal ius mortis case. The reason why the terrible law adopted last year needs to be amended here is the realization that there are certain constraints that need to be fulfilled in a European context in order to make the operation of the National Accreditation Authority acceptable. According to this compilation, it amends two laws: the Civil Procedure and the Accreditation Act, thus the judicial review of the decisions of the National Accreditation Authority will fall exclusively within the competence of the Metropolitan Administrative and Labour Court. This is interesting because last year's guillotine law on national accreditation has not yet included any rules or references to judicial redress. That's what this bill is about to replace. The bill also alters the recognition of the foreign accreditation certificate, specifying the concept of a significant change that is subject to notification. So they're trying to clean up the mess that happened last year's tragic laws. In line with international requirements, the national accreditation procedure, or the Hungarian accreditation body, cannot be accepted into the international organisation without these amendments, specifically the organisation of European Accreditation Cooperation. In order to meet the requirements of the European Commission and that European accreditation body, the 2015 CXXIV on accreditation will now take place. to amend the law. The Commission also requires these changes and the application of the requirements it sets for pending cases. According to the justification of the bill, the amendment is justified by the fulfilment of the requirements of the European Commission and the Accreditation Cooperation Organisation - I am glad that this has finally been recognised. The purpose of the amendment is to make the National Accreditation Authority a member of the European Accreditation Cooperation Organisation and of the Mutual Recognition Agreement with the European Accreditation Cooperation. This is the point of mutual recognition of accreditation, of which the Hungarian accreditation authority is unfortunately not a member. He was a member of the previous accreditation body. This will also give Hungary the opportunity to issue internationally recognised accreditation certificates. The previous system of national accreditation, as I mentioned, was presented by Kristóf Szatmáry, Péter Cseresnyés and Imre Vas in June 2015 with incredible speed, in the framework of a motion from its representatives, with respect to one of the murderers, Mr Vas Imre, T/5142 on the transformation of the national accreditation system. It was crushed by bill number 1. Congratulations, my dear doctor, we have managed to destroy a well-functioning national public body and instead create an inoperable, unrecognized, incompetent authority. Then ask the actors, the Hungarian companies, how pleased they were to see you. I'm sure he wouldn't smile as much as he does now. The termination of the National Accreditation Board was in such a hurry that it took place at an extraordinary meeting, so the law was adopted not in the ordinary session, but in an extraordinary meeting. The National Accreditation Board ceased on 1 January 2016, the task and the assets of the Board were nationalised and terminated without successor. This has caused extreme disruptions in accreditation activities and has caused serious damage to domestic companies. [[18.50]] More than 200 companies had an up-to-date extension of accreditation in the second half of 2015, and this was no longer possible. Of course, the market will solve this within a European framework. Next time Hungarian companies will be able to go to Slovakia for accreditation, but if it is more appropriate for your national perception that Hungarian companies go to the accreditation bodies of Austria and Slovakia, they will be forced to do so, then this will result in a strange and distorted approach. While the organisations to be accredited with this amendment will be in a slightly easier position and the regulation of accreditation will be more normal, the MSZP cannot support the fact that what happened last year was a basic theft-based nationalisation, which will now be transformed with the legislation, so what we have here is technically justified. What happened last year is unacceptable. The resulting combination is a dysfunctional system, which I hope you will regret sooner or later, if not otherwise, in the form of companies' opinions. Thank you for your attention, Mr. President.
u2016-11-21-259	Thank you very much. Congressman, I am obliged to warn you, because if you consider that the activities of a fellow Member have contributed, say, to the abolition of a committee, you cannot use an indicative structure which, in the vocabulary, means something quite different. Because the word "murderer" in Hungary demands a judicial decision on an act in breach of the criminal code, so in such a simplistic form, I think it is unworthy. I ask you to follow Congressman Vas Imre. I give the floor to Congressman István Józsa.
u2016-11-21-260	I would like to speak in order of business. Dear Mr. President, I respect your point. I have carefully described the subject of this murder: the murder of the National Accreditation Board, of course, not the murder of human life. If that's what someone was thinking, then of course I want to make that clear. Thank you.
u2016-11-21-261	Thank you very much. I will ask my fellow Members if anyone else wishes to speak in the debate. [[No one's reporting.]] I do not see an application; the debate is closed. I will ask Mr István Lepsényi, State Secretary, if he wishes to respond to what has been said in the debate. [[For signal:]] Yes, he does. Secretary of State, 10 minutes is the time frame you have at your disposal, please.
u2016-11-21-262	Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Members, Let's look at the facts of what happened this year after the introduction of the new accreditation system. We promised that a faster, more transparent and business-friendly accreditation system would work. This year, compared to 170 days laid down by law, the lead time for an accreditation process was reduced to 119 days. In the surveillance procedure, the procedure is 75 days compared to the previous 90 days. This shows, therefore, that the process has accelerated, that the system has become business-friendly. If you look at the other part, the costs, the costs to be paid, have fallen by 18 percent compared to the previous legislation, and if I also take into account that the three mandatory official controls can be carried out not in four years, but in five years, the average cost has decreased by 25 percent. So these are the facts. We can also say that there were various numbers here. On 31 December 2015, 577 accredited organisations were registered. Currently 691 accredited organisations have a national accredited status. And the fact that it has an accredited status in Hungary guarantees from 6 October that we have obtained the signature of the mutual recognition agreement for European accreditation cooperation, so we are not talking in the past time or in the future, this is already available, so the international recognition of Hungarian accreditation documents has become ensured. In addition, as of 11 November 2016, the accreditation authority has also become a full member of the mutual recognition agreement of international laboratory accreditation cooperation, i.e. it is entitled to issue a document recognised and accepted worldwide in the field of accreditation of testing laboratories, calibration laboratories and medical diagnostic laboratories. This work continues. On 6 November 2016, the Authority took part in the accreditation forum as a founding member of the future measure, thus opening up another opportunity to access the Arab market. Therefore, this proposal for an amendment contains the amendments proposed by the European accreditation body and the European Commission. In order to ensure the international recognition and results of the national accreditation system, it is important to meet the expectations of international organisations, and I therefore ask that the proposal be supported in tomorrow's final vote. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-11-21-263	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I would like to inform my fellow Members that the decisions will take place on our meeting tomorrow. We now have the Commission's reports on the amendment of certain laws concerning administrative bureaucracy and the discussion of the summary amendment proposal. Government referral T/12475. The Commission is available on the parliamentary IT network, together with the related non-autonomous texts. I would like to inform you that the proposal is being discussed as a minority item by the Parliament. The debate will be the first to present the position of the Legislative Committee within a 15-minute time frame. I give the floor to Congressman Vas Imre, rapporteur of the committee. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2016-11-21-264	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, At its meeting on 17 November 2016, the Legislative Committee discussed T/12475. A bill amending certain laws concerning administrative bureaucracy was tabled by the Committee with 21 votes in favour, 4 votes against and no abstentions, and a summary report. During the committee meeting, the members discussed the legislative committee's own amendment in the background, which partially overwritten the amendments proposed by the Judicial Committee. The summarised amendment not only contains wordings, but also substantive proposals have been included in this summarised amendment proposal. On the one hand, in order to maintain an effective relationship with the Hungarian Academy of Sciences previously established, it is justified to continue to include a standard text in the Act on the Registration Procedure according to which a body forwards requests to the Hungarian Academy of Sciences in order to register the first name. On the other hand, the date of the entry into force provision will be changed and certain provisions will be deleted in this bill in the light of the proposed amendment on the introduction of an annuity for dance arts. Please support the objectives of cutting red tape by supporting this proposal. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-11-21-265	Thank you very much, Congressman. I am now asking Mr Zoltán Kovács, State Secretary, whether he wishes to speak now on behalf of the rapporteur, or whether he wishes to answer the debate only in the closing section.
u2016-11-21-266	Mr President, Dear House, If this House is present in the debate, I would end up with a summary.
u2016-11-21-267	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I'd like to inform you that you'll have a ten-minute window in the closing room. Dear Parliament, I would like to inform my fellow Members that the designated Justice Committee has not appointed a rapporteur. So now it is up to the Members to speak if my fellow Members wish to speak in the debate. [[No one's reporting.]] I do not see an application; the debate is closed. I will ask Mr Zoltán Kovács, State Secretary, if he wishes to keep a close. [[For signal:]] Yeah. Secretary of State, you have the floor. [[19.00]]
u2016-11-21-268	Mr President, Dear Parliament, Very briefly. Congressman Vas Imre told me the history of the bill after his submission to the House. Indeed, it was also discussed on the committee of nationalities, as it concerned the rule of first name use. The Judicial Committee has proposed 21 amendments, mainly technical proposals to avoid coherence, and this has been supported by 24 proposals from the Legislative Committee. This proposal, the single proposal, is supported by the government. In total, we have proposed amendments to 45 laws, 44 of which remain at the end, since the Construction Act is in front of the House, so we have imposed and are regulated in this regard. Dear House, The road paved by the greats of public administration is not only an inheritance, but also an obligation. With these 44 legislative amendments to the previous 221 amendments and the deregulation of seventy-some laws, I can say that we would like to continue to do so. That is what we are looking for. I think that we have not only talked about cutting red tape, but we have done something about it, which has results today, primarily on the customer side, so thank you very much. I hope that in the final vote tomorrow, this House will support this bill. Thank you very much. [[Dr. Imre Vas applauds.]]
u2016-11-21-269	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. The decisions will take place on our meeting tomorrow. The Commission's reports on the amendment of certain laws on the regulation of education and the summary amendment are now under discussion. The government referral is T/12731. The Commission is available on the Parliament's IT network, together with its non-autonomous texts. I would like to inform you that the proposal is being discussed as a minority item by the Parliament. The debate will be the first to present the position of the Legislative Committee within a 15-minute time frame. I give the floor to Congressman László Kucsák, rapporteur of the committee. Here you go, Congressman.
u2016-11-21-270	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, I hereby inform the Parliament that the Legislative Committee discussed on 17 November 2016 T/12731 on the amendment of certain laws governing the regulation of education. The Committee submitted a proposal for amendment and a summary report with 21 votes in favour, with two abstentions, without voting against. The summarised amendment includes, on the one hand, the motion of the Committee on Culture, which, inter alia, eliminates discrimination in the area of skills development schools on a proposal from MSZP, and students who are going to be able to receive benefits under the VET Act in the future. It also clarifies, on my proposal, the special arrangements necessary for the establishment of district centres and their specific organisation. On the other hand, it also contains the text of the nationality committee which clarifies the delegation rights of the municipality to the institutional council in the case of schools maintained by the local government. In addition, the TAB, i.e. the Legislative Committee's own amendment, aims to reduce the administrative burden on public education institutions and, to this end, states that statistical reporting and data processing may not be requested from public education institutions in respect of the data available in the public education information system. If these data are required, for example, from the maintenance part, then the data controller of the information system, i.e. the Education Office, can be contacted to provide data. The purpose of the legislative amendments is to ensure a better functioning to the satisfaction of all actors in the public education system, to respond to some practical experiences, to unify and simplify the application of the law. I ask your support for this. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Dr. Imre Vas applauds.]]
u2016-11-21-271	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I will now ask Mr László Palkovics, Secretary of State, whether he wishes to speak now, or if he will only respond to what has been said in the final part of the debate. [[Dr. László Palkovics: Thank you very much, I do not wish to say anything at the end.]] Yeah. Thank you very much. I would like to inform the Secretary of State that you will have a deadline of 10 minutes for the closing. I now address the Slovenian minority speaker Erika Kissné Köles, who wishes to speak as rapporteur for the Committee on Nationalities in Hungary in connection with the debate. Here you go, Madam Speaker, you have the floor; the time frame is six minutes.
u2016-11-21-272	Spoštovani Gospod Predsednik! Poslanke in Poslanci! Zagovornice in Zagovorniki! Mr President, Dear Members, Ladies and Congressmen, Dear Speaking Ladies and Gentlemen, T/12731 on the amendment of certain laws governing the regulation of education. The number 1 bill and its contents also affect the public education issues of nationalities living in Hungary. [[Dr. István Hiller, vice-president of the Parliament, takes the chair.]] The Committee of Nationalities in Hungary requested the approval of the House Committee to negotiate the bill. The committee held a detailed debate on the bill at its meeting on 15 November 2016. During the general debate, I presented the arguments that supported our connection to the negotiation of the bill. One point of this is the emergence of complementary ethnic language education in the list of basic tasks. During the detailed discussion, the Committee of Nationalities of Hungary reviewed the 24 amendments tabled to the bill, of which it took two views on the 8th and 13th. The wording in No 8 is correct, but the consistency between the national law on the rights of national minorities and the national law on public education precludes disputes that may arise in the field of education organisation. Despite everything, the Committee on Nationalities of Hungary therefore recommends that additional language education be given in the list of basic tasks 1.15. The amendment was therefore not supported by the Committee, given the fact that the concept of supplementary ethnic language education has just been included in the bill, thus allowing it to appear as an activity that can be listed among the basic tasks of an institution. The Committee on Nationalities in Hungary also did not support those parts of Amendment 13 that are more lenient about the use of non-professional teachers. It is also the intention of the legislator to work in public education institutions as an educator with appropriate professional qualifications, which also exists in relation to ethnic schools. The Committee on Nationalities in Hungary expressed an intention to amend further during the detailed debate, which was set out in Article 14 of the bill. The Commission considers that the measure does not constitute State aid within the meaning of Article 107 (1) TFEU and does not constitute State aid within the meaning of Article 107 (1) TFEU. As regards the delegates of the institutional councils, the Committee's proposal shall be as follows: Paragraph 4a of Article 4a is therefore: if the school also carries out a task of teaching and teaching nationality, but is not maintained by a national government, the relevant municipal self-government shall delegate to the institutional council a member of the same number as the persons delegated by each delegate, in the absence of it, the relevant minority civil society organisation operating in the settlement. The text of the original bill is not clear, as more delegates to the institutional council can equally delegate several members. As a result, the proposal can also be interpreted as devolved by the local minority self-government concerned. Obviously, the intention of the legislator is to delegate to the institutional council an equal number of members each of them entitled to do so. This is what the proposed amendment seeks to clarify. The bill is 14. The Commission's proposal to amend Article 4 of the Act was supported by its representative. The Committee of Nationalities of Hungary also considers the other points of the bill to be forward-looking for ethnic public education. Hvala za posornost! Thank you for your attention. [[It's a rare applause.]] [[19.10]]
u2016-11-21-273	Thank you very much, Madam Speaker. Good evening. Honourable Members, We will continue our work with speeches from our representatives. I would like to inform you that a two-minute comment is not possible, although there is no candidate. In fact, optimistically, there is no candidate not only for two minutes, but in no other form. But it is my duty to ask if anyone would like to address the remaining time frame. [[No one's reporting.]] Please, whatever you want. This means that there is no representation, and the debate is closed. I would like to ask Mr Secretary of State, as rapporteur, if he wishes to reflect. Here you go.
u2016-11-21-274	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear Members, Ladies and Gentlemen, I think that the absence of any comments now means that we have discussed all the open questions in the detailed debate and in the Legislative Committee. Since the support for our proposals so far, I think it shows that there is a common interest here, we have made clarification and amendment proposals that will enable better governance of public education and higher education. On the one hand, I thank you for your support and, on the other hand, I can ask you to provide the same support for the vote. Please accept it. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-11-21-275	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I would like to inform you that the decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting. Dear Parliament, The Commission's reports on the amendment of certain health and health insurance legislation and the summary amendment proposal follow up. Government referral T/12729. The Commission's non-autonomous texts are available on the Parliament's IT network. Dear Parliament, The debate will be the first to present the position of the Legislative Committee within a maximum period of 15 minutes. I give the floor to Congresswoman Gabriella Selmeczi, rapporteur of the committee. Here you go.
u2016-11-21-276	Thank you very much. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen of the State Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, On 17 November 2016, the Legislative Committee shall adopt the provisions of house rules 46. T/12729 on the amendment of certain health and health insurance laws The Committee submitted a proposal for amendment and a summary report with 21 votes in favour and 5 abstentions, i.e. no votes against. The summarised amendment contains the 19-point text of the People's Welfare Committee closing a detailed debate, which envisages in particular technical clarifications on the standard text submitted. The bill places great emphasis on monitoring compliance with health rules. For example, on the basis of practical experience of health insurance supervision, the provisions in force for the elimination of false stock purchases are clarified and, for farmers not subject to the accounting law, it will also be possible to verify the existence of purchases, sales and stocks on the basis of stock records. This ensures a uniform and effective official control of all healthcare providers with a price support contract. On the basis of the submitted amendment, the accounting arrangements for the health services financed, the authenticity of the accounts, the financial regularity and separation of the use of the funds paid may also be verified by the Ministry responsible for the supervision and management of the Health Insurance Fund. As can be seen from the voting rate, the amendments were not even opposed by the opposition parties. In practice, the only point of dispute was the proposal by Jobbik, which would have taken away the permissions of the National Institute for Pharmacy and Food Health in the field of drug control, which was intended by the bill submitted. The bill before us clearly sets out the detailed rules for official control, in order to facilitate the control of the rules on the majority ownership of pharmacists as from 1 January 2017 in order to strengthen the authority's action. It is also confirmed that, in the event of non-compliance with the majority of the ownership shares of the pharmacist and the termination of the premium contract with the social security body, the authorisation of the pharmacy should be revoked. Government parties are in favour of clean, transparent operation, which must be accompanied by proper control and enforcement. This is particularly important in the area of health. That is why I am asking you to support the bill amending certain health and health insurance laws. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-11-21-277	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. I'll ask the author, Mr. Secretary of State, if you'd like to speak now or later. [[For signal:]] It's okay. This will move on, and since the designated Committee on Welfare has not set up a rapporteur, we will now hear speeches from its representatives. No two-minute comments are possible. I ask the Honourable Parliament if anyone wishes to speak. [[For signal:]] Congressman Lajos Rig, Jobbik. Here you go.
u2016-11-21-278	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Fellow Members! The faction of the Jobbik Movement for Hungary will, of course, support this autumn salad law amendment, which has many good parts that can make this system better, which has been struggling for 26 years now, in a pothole, but cannot come out. However, we can all say that these are only temporary and relative scars, as under-financing remains in health care and health care. If we settle that, then these salad laws serve a very good purpose, because we can operate a good health system. There was not a lot of debate, as I unfortunately did not get to this debate in the Commission, but I think my fellow Member Luke has already said the concerns that have been raised here, for example, by many general practitioners, because we are trying to operate a system if their system is not compatible with the hospital system at the moment. Indeed, it is necessary to standardize, because it is possible to work with a single system, but if we go to a city, it is not even certain that the general practitioners have a uniform system, since as many general practitioners have ordered these systems from so many providers, and the hospital works with another system. So if the two aren't compatible, we may be killing billions, but we're not getting anywhere. It was also mentioned that it has not been properly regulated so far, according to which system the artifacts should be published, what should be published and who should be published. This was a scandal, as far as I know, regarding the hospital in Karcag, a missing patient was asked about by relatives, a year ago, they still haven't found it, and they haven't received any evidence of the tests, the treatment that the hospital performed on it, and I think it's against the law. The EFI offices. When the EFI offices started in several cities across the country, in several district centres, everyone said that this was a good thing, since it serves a good purpose, there is a great deal of EU funding to be spent on it, but in my opinion, the hundreds of millions of EU funds that were invested in some EFI offices did not bring the expected results for which they were created. The idea itself is good, because it is also in its name that the Institute for Health Development, which must have a close relationship with basic care, GPs, nurses or outpatient clinics, is aimed at post-care, pre-care and prevention. Then they wrote out numbers and data that they need to comply with in order to call this EU resource and implement the project itself. [[19.20]] Not all of them were able to do this legally, and there were many EFI offices that reported patient tests on flash drives. They're open secrets. There was no other way to solve this because it was impossible to do it. Now comes the three-year maintenance cycle, but what happens next is a big question. They are needed, of course they are needed, but it is a question of what tasks, what additional tasks we do for them, where they will be involved in this health system, whether they will be an integral part of it, or if they will only be left with health conservation, disease prevention, and also go out to village events in a tent and measure blood sugar levels, let's say hemoglobin, if the lab provides them with equipment for this. A lot of professionals work in these EFI offices, and they were very well-built, and there were general doctors and outpatient doctors working with service and support staff, dietic nurses, physiotherapists and active athletes, which was indeed a good direction. But if we don't use the system that it's for, it's not gonna happen. E-cigarette. It's an interesting day, and it's very good of you to come in, Secretary of State. Now we have heard that it is not so harmful, and since it does not cause smoke but only steam, it is not a tobacco product. There is probably a compromise, an agreement, and you have also noticed that this can be sold in another form and not made part of the tobacco business. Let us find another way to protect non-smokers, children, and youth by leaving it in those specialised shops. We've been saying for months that it's not a tobacco product, so let's not treat it like a tobacco product. It is likely, even certain, that this was more of a lobby and source of revenue for a tobacco store than the protection of minors and non-smokers. I understand the good intentions, but if there's another way to protect non-smokers and young people, let's try not to drive them into the tobacco store. Let's try not to look at a non-smoking person who tried to quit smoking with this product and switched to either a reduced or zero nicotine-containing aromatized drug for over a year, and I'm not saying cigarette brand names, because then there's a high probability that he's gonna get used to it. We were talking about the e-cigarette. The law itself - and this is very good regulation - regulates wage increases for workers subject to collective agreements. This points to the future that everyone who has not received the wage increase can share in it. Once again, the Jobbik Movement for Hungary supports this. It is good that there are now many legislative amendments that should have been made in the last 26 years. Indeed, there are some points that the Secretary of State has managed to achieve within the health system. There's still a lot of work to do, but I'm hoping that we can work things out together. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2016-11-21-279	Dear Parliament, Would anyone else like to speak? [[There's no candidate.]] I'm gonna say no. The debate is closed. Mr. Secretary of State, if you wish to speak. Here you go.
u2016-11-21-280	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, I am glad that the debate was so short, because I think that the package really serves what was meant to be a good state in Hungary. I am also pleased that the opposition has tried constructively on this issue. I would like to continue to ask that, after health care is a matter for all of us, everyone should put aside their current short political goals and try to do something for the Hungarian population. And I would like to ask you to support the legislation with your votes. What I can promise you is that you can expect the same attitude from us. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of Fidesz.]]
u2016-11-21-281	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, I would like to inform you that the decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting. Dear Parliament, The Commission's reports on the proposal for the Defence Sports Federation and the summary amendment follow up. The government referral is T/12696. The Commission's non-autonomous texts are available on the Parliament's IT network. First, the position of the Legislative Committee will be presented within a maximum period of 15 minutes. I give the floor to Congressman Vas Imre, rapporteur of the committee. Here you go.
u2016-11-21-282	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, I inform the Parliament that the Legislative Committee discussed T/12696 on 17 November 2016. The draft law on the Defence Sports Federation, submitted by 25 votes in favour, with no votes against, with two abstentions, and presented an amendment and a summary report. The summary amendment contains the two-point proposal of the Defence and Police Committee, which was supported by our committee without debate. I believe that we should help citizens who are committed to defence, who are happy to receive physical and mental training on a voluntary basis. To this end, the Minister of Defence proposes the establishment of a public body called the Defence Sports Federation, which would help to achieve these objectives. Ladies and gentlemen, I ask you to vote in favour of the adoption of the bill.
u2016-11-21-283	Thank you very much. I will ask the rapporteur, Mr Vargha, if he wishes to speak now. [[On Tamás Vargha's mark:]] It says it's gonna end up in the end. Dear Parliament, The rapporteur for the Defence and Police Committee, who is Mr Vas Imre, is the rapporteur; we hope that he will not be very confused with the previous speaker. Here you go.
u2016-11-21-284	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, The National Defence and Police Committee conducted a detailed discussion of the bill on the basis of the House Rules of Procedure. The committee examined the bill and found that it complied with the House Rule 44. the requirements laid down in Section 2 of this Annex. During the in-depth discussion, the Committee discussed the proposed amendment, examining whether it complied with the House Rule 42 of the Decision. the requirements laid down in Section 2 of this Annex. The Committee did not support the proposals for amendments to the bill, but expressed its own intention to amend it, so it presented a Commission amendment closing a detailed debate. The committee agreed unanimously with the aim of the bill, and the opposition also welcomed it positively. The detailed discussion of the bill was closed on 15 November 2016.
u2016-11-21-285	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, We now have speeches from Members. No two-minute comments are possible. Congresswoman Márta Demeter applied for a speech, MSZP. Here you go.
u2016-11-21-286	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Secretary. In short, we agree with the purpose of the law. By encouraging young people to play sports as much as possible and bringing young people closer to the issue of defence, we are all in agreement here in Parliament. It is clear that certain conditions must be met in the field of sport. Due to both the infrastructure and the financial situation of the families, the government still has plenty to do, and in the field of defence, the primary way to bring young people closer to this issue is to offer them a perspective in the Hungarian Defence Office, so that they can learn, become a contract soldier or professional in the field of defence. That is why we think that we need to build a new system, not a huge system, but, as we do now, with a lot of sports associations - and in the future, it could obviously be extended - the Ministry of Defence has a contract, there is a system for that, and we think that it would be more necessary to support it. According to the author's intention, this bill is linked to the idea of creating a territorial reserve system, which I also believe that such a system, a so-called voluntary reserve fund, cannot replace the professional staff of the Hungarian Defence Office. So in the current environment, in the state in which the Hungarian Defence Office is located, the primary route is to upload the stock, the current professional stock as soon as possible, the introduction of incentives into the system, and the modernisation of military technology. And here I would also like to mention those civil servants - 6500 - who have received a gross increase of HUF 16,000 in recent years. Obviously, their income situation must also be corrected, recognising that the development of salaries for professional staff is a positive step. So precisely because we agree with the basic goals, but we can express a lot of concerns about the rest of the law, so we will abstain on the vote tomorrow. Thank you. [[19.30]]
u2016-11-21-287	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, Would anyone else like to speak? As a pre-notification speaker, it is up to the representative of Fidesz, Mr Vas Imre. Here you go.
u2016-11-21-288	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Sports prepare you for life, they also help you to learn how to deal with difficulties, but they also have great community-forming powers. The former Hungarian Defence Association was a national organization organising sport and leisure activities, which operated between 1948 and 1990. During his story, he changed several times for political reasons and then ceased to exist. The current proposal would revive the Defence Sports Alliance, which would be organically linked to the development of a reorganizing, territorially based voluntary reserve system, thus facilitating the motivation of voluntary service. The aim of the bill is to create an organisational form for citizens who are committed to the defence issue to acquire knowledge, pre-trained knowledge and knowledge on the ground of possible military service and basic training through a voluntary programme of national defence education based on regular physical activity. This is why the Minister of Defence proposes the establishment of a public body called the Defence Sports Federation, which would facilitate these objectives. The Fidesz fraction supports the adoption of the bill. I'm asking for your support. [[Applause in the ranks of Fidesz.]]
u2016-11-21-289	Thank you very much. I would like to ask, honourable Members, if anyone else wishes to speak out of the remaining timeframe. [[There's no candidate.]] I'm gonna say no. The debate is closed. Mr Tamás Vargha, the Secretary of State, has the floor. Here you go.
u2016-11-21-290	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, My fellow Member Vas Imre has very well summarized what our goal and intention is to promote defence education, to bring the defence, soldiers and society closer together. We believe that we will achieve this goal by creating this public body and by helping civil society organisations and associations to join it. I am very sorry that the Member, from whose speech today we have heard that the matter of defence is an important matter and considers it to be a national matter, cannot support the creation of this alliance with her vote - neither she nor her faction - with her vote. But believe me, Congresswoman, we're not doing what we're doing here for some reason. When we create the Defence Sports Alliance, we do not do that instead of recruiting, not doing that instead of developing the forces, these must be parallel work. The voluntary territorial reserve system is not instead of recruiting professional and contractual staff, but a new and emerging opportunity to provide young people who believe that protecting their own environment and their own place of residence is important to them with an opportunity to protect and prepare for it. Over the past year and a half, we have seen that many people have considered it important to protect Hungary in some way. Unfortunately, this has not been possible. That's what we're trying to do to create an opportunity. And the Defence Sports Federation, from early childhood, when young people begin to have an attraction for weapons, fighting sports, helps them to prepare for this career or for some voluntary reserve service, as they grow and are not yet 18 years old. I trust that tomorrow you will support this bill with the vote of Parliament. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of Fidesz.]]
u2016-11-21-291	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, The decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting. Dear Parliament, The 2011 CXIII on defence and the Hungarian Defence Forces and the measures that can be implemented in the special legal order follows. The Commission's reports on the amendment of the Act and the debate on the draft amendment. The government referral T/12694. The Commission's non-autonomous texts are available on the Parliament's IT network. The debate will be the first to present the position of the Legislative Committee within a 15-minute time frame. Mr Vas Imre, rapporteur for the committee. Here.
u2016-11-21-292	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, At its meeting on 17 November 2016, the Legislative Committee discussed the 2011 CXIII. T/12694. Bill No. 1. The Committee presented a proposal for amendment and a summary report with 21 votes in favour, one against and one abstention. In view of the fact that no one has submitted an amendment, the Commission's proposal to close the in-depth debate, the summarised amendment contains the legislative committee's own amendment, which sets out a two-point substantive amendment. According to the accepted proposal, in the future the forces of the Hungarian Defence Forces can perform evacuation tasks, contribute to the life, physical integrity of Hungarian citizens, directly threatening acts of war, armed conflicts, and terrorist and hostage-taking actions in the rescue of Hungarian citizens in distress, ensuring their return, at the request of the Minister of Defence and the Minister of Foreign Affairs. Ladies and gentlemen, Hungary must help and provide for the Hungarian defences and the Hungarian defence with all its power, because they are the reason for our security. The proposal also contains clarifications in line with living conditions, and I therefore ask my fellow Members to vote in favour of the adoption of the bill. [[Applause in the ranks of Fidesz.]]
u2016-11-21-293	Thank you very much. I will ask Mr Tamás Vargha, Secretary of State, if he wishes to speak now. [[Tamás Vargha: I want to end it.]] Mr. Secretary of State will indicate that at the end. We are now hearing the appointed rapporteur of the Defence and Police Committee. Congressman Vas Imre is next. Here you go.
u2016-11-21-294	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, The committee shall adopt the Rules of Procedure 44-45. The Committee concluded that the bill was in line with the House Rule 44 of the Decision. The requirements of paragraph 1 of paragraph 1 of this Article shall apply. During the detailed discussion, the Committee discussed the amendments tabled but did not support the amendments made by its representatives, and, as I just said, the Defence Committee did not submit its own amendment. The committee closed the detailed discussion of the bill on 15 November 2016. Thank you for your attention.
u2016-11-21-295	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, There will be speeches by Members, and there will be no two-minute comment. Congresswoman Márta Demeter, representative of the MSZP, may speak. Here.
u2016-11-21-296	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, Unfortunately, once again there is a law before us, and a two-thirds law, which is very consistent with the practice that we have seen for years from the government that they link socially very useful things and important things with measures that are otherwise unacceptable, even restricting rights or giving rise to abuses. [[19.40]] This is exactly what we see in this bill, because we have been fighting for it for a year and a half, and, unfortunately, there has been almost no action in this regard, this proposal is put together in this law with completely unacceptable measures which otherwise open the door to the government in such a way that it will give the government the opportunity to abuse in the future, unfortunately, from a security point of view, and it will be almost impossible to achieve this parliamentary control in essence. So precisely because of this legislative practice, we have tabled an amendment to the law, and tomorrow, in the vote of the law, the entire group of MSZP will vote only in favour of the part and section of the law on compensation for former members of the Honvéd Health Insurance Fund and, of course, in favour of all other unacceptable and restrictive measures, which have unfortunately been raised, although we will not, of course, support it. I would like to point out here that we have submitted a proposal for a resolution to the Parliament, in which we also set a time limit for the compensation of former members of the Honvéd Health Fund, because, by the way, tomorrow's law, as I mentioned, provides a legislative framework, does not guarantee the date of payment. And as the president of the Defence and Police Committee said in the press, if I remember correctly, he said that the compensation would be paid for three semesters, and I think it shouldn't take too long, the government has been waiting for the soldiers for a year and a half, and, unfortunately, the law enforcement staff, too, with the payment. This amount should therefore be paid to them by 31 January. So I will ask that, as no action has been taken in the last year and a half, an intention has now been set in motion, the pro-government majority and the government confirm this intention by supporting our resolution proposal to make payment as soon as possible. So tomorrow's law will be fully supported and voted in favour of the compensation part of the former members of the Honvéd Health Bank, but we will not support those parts that unfortunately the government has yet put into this law, which can also be used for security abuses. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2016-11-21-297	Thank you very much. The representative of Fidesz, Congressman Vas Imre, may have the floor. Here.
u2016-11-21-298	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, The aim of the bill is to create a better regulatory environment for allied and international military commitments, resulting from the experience of the law on defence and the Hungarian Defence and the practical application of the law on measures that can be implemented in a special legal order. In line with the experience of the changed mission system of defence, it aims to promote the provision of tasks, the ability-building efforts associated with the change of the task system, and the organisational changes. In the context of the changed security environment, the Parliament has changed the public-law rule of defence on several points over the past period, resulting in the expansion of the Hungarian Defence Agency's task system. Experience in dealing with the crisis caused by mass immigration and counter-terrorism measures makes it necessary to make the legal environment for defence more effective with the amendments contained in the proposal. In addition, Hungary has significant tasks as a member of NATO, which require further clarification. In addition to all these amendments, this proposal would establish the legal basis for the compensation of the victims of the Honvéd Health Fund, belonging to the staff of the defence portfolio. At the five-party meeting, all parties were pleased that the defense minister wanted to settle the victims' case. It is important to return their savings to the members of the professional staff, which is supported by the Fidesz faction, and even two of my fellow Members want to settle the situation of the members of the law enforcement staff, so they have tabled a separate motion by their representatives, which will be discussed by the Parliament this week. Ladies and gentlemen, The Fidesz faction supports the bill, please support it. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause from the Fidesz ranks.]]
u2016-11-21-299	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Anybody else want to tell me? [[There's no signal.]] I'm gonna say no. The debate is closed. Secretary of State, as you indicated, please.
u2016-11-21-300	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Thank you very much to my fellow Member Imre Vas for summing up the substance of this bill so well. Congresswoman Márta Demeter may not have used the word "trap" but there is no trap in this bill, believe me. It is not because we think that we want to force Members to vote together with the part they like to vote on the parts that they may not like. Believe me, what you called a law amendment restricting rights, there is no such thing. I think that in the past year and a half we have met many times here in the House of Representatives and have spoken in favour of the compensation of the members of the Honvéd Health Fund, we have never said that we do not intend to, we have always said that we are working on it, because the Ministry of Defence, the Hungarian Defence Office, cannot be at fault in this case. We had to find a solution that was legal, and believe that by bringing compensation into law and giving this license to the Minister of Defense the law, the next step will be done, and the government will create the right legislation to make the compensation happen. So I ask the Honourable Parliament to vote in favour of this bill tomorrow. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the Fidesz ranks.]]
u2016-11-21-301	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, The decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting. Next up is the 2004 Annex XVIII on wine production and wine management. Act and CCXIX of 2012 on Mountain Villages. The Commission's reports on the amendment of the Act and the debate on the draft amendment. The government referral is T/12230. The Commission's non-autonomous texts are available on the Parliament's IT network. The debate will be the first to present the position of the Legislative Committee within a maximum period of 15 minutes. I therefore give the floor to Mr László Salacz, rapporteur of the committee. Here.
u2016-11-21-302	Mr President, Dear House, At the meeting of the Legislative Committee on 17 November 2016, the members held a debate on the 18th edition of 2004 on wine production and wine management. Act and CCXIX of 2012 on Mountain Villages. T/12230 on the amendment of Act T/1273. About bill No. 1. The board of the house rules 46. 28 votes in favour, and so unanimously submitted an amendment and a summary report. The draft amendment contains the amendment proposed by the Committee on Agriculture, so our committee has accepted the proposals for clarification of the designated commission, which mainly included the amendments made by MEP Font Sándor. In addition, it contains spelling clarifications and amended the entry into force of the provisions of the bill in a uniform manner by 1 January 2017. [[19.50]] Ladies and gentlemen, The current amendment to the wine law contributes to preserving the results achieved so far. While the bill does not contain any substantial amendment to the sector, these amendments significantly facilitate daily smooth administration. I hope that my fellow opposition Members will also contribute to ensuring a two-thirds majority, since the drafting of the bill is based on proposals from professional organisations. As a result, I can say that there is clear regulation for vine producers. Please support this proposal in line with your earlier promises. Thank you for listening.
u2016-11-21-303	Thank you very much. I will ask the author, Mr Zsolt Németh, if he wishes to speak now. [[Zsolt V. Németh: At the end, Mr. President.]] In the end, signify Secretary of State. Since the designated Committee on Agriculture did not present a rapporteur, we do not need to listen. The representatives will be taking part in the speeches. The first among these will be Mr Lajos Kepli, representative of Jobbik. Here.
u2016-11-21-304	Thank you very much. I would like to present my group's position on the bill taken by my fellow Member Zoltán Magyar. It is often said that it is the grapes and especially the wine that can bring peace between opponents. The spirit of this peace is in this late hour, as I can say that opposition demands and opposition considerations have indeed been taken into account in this bill. Therefore, the Jobbik Movement for Hungary can support this bill, it will vote on it, it will support it with its vote. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2016-11-21-305	Thank you, too. Would anyone else like to speak, Honourable Parliament? [[No one's reporting.]] I'm gonna say no. The debate is closed. Secretary of State, please.
u2016-11-21-306	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, The Ministry of Agriculture regularly consults winemakers, winemakers' professional organisations, interest representatives and develops the legal environment taking their views into account. This is what the current bill has served. I am pleased that during the committee's work, as it has shown in the Legislative Committee, it really stands united, at least as it stands today, this House, all its parties, in favour of the bill. I trust that this will also be reflected in tomorrow's vote. I'm asking you to support the bill. Thank you.
u2016-11-21-307	Thank you very much. I would like to inform you, which has already been informed by the Secretary of State that the decisions will be taken on tomorrow's meeting. Next up is the 2011 LXXXV on the Environmental Product Award. The Commission's reports on the amendment of the Act and the debate on the draft amendment. The government referral T/12367. The Commission's non-autonomous texts are available on the Parliament's IT network. The position of the Legislative Committee is first heard from Mr László Salacz, rapporteur of the committee. Here.
u2016-11-21-308	Mr President, Dear House, I hereby inform the Parliament that the Legislative Committee on 17 November 2016 is the House Rule 46. On the basis of Article 4 of the Act on the Environmental Product Award, LXXXV of 2011 was discussed. T/12367 on the amendment of the Act The Committee submitted a proposal for amendment and a summary report with 25 votes in favour and 2 non-voting votes. The summarised amendment includes, on the one hand, the five-point proposal of the Committee on Sustainable Development and the TAB's own amendment. The amendments are primarily of a legal nature and, secondly, eliminate a problem of coherence. One of the aims of the amendments to the Environmental Product Fee Act is to simplify and make predictable the performance of the product fee obligations of those who opt for individual performance. Those who choose individual waste management should be based on the emissions for the year under the current legislation when designing waste management performance. In view of the fact that annual emissions become known only after the reference year, it would be difficult to estimate the quantity of waste generated by the product subject to a charge to be used for the purpose of achieving the desired recovery performance. In order to facilitate the fulfilment of the obligations of the farmers concerned, farmers who have chosen individual waste treatment prior to the year concerned shall be the basis for the calculation as a result of the legislative amendment. Otherwise, the emissions for the year shall be taken into account in the calculation of the product charge, in accordance with the rules in force. The current Ktdt 16/A. Paragraph 8 contains a provision for the calculation of the product charge for individual performing debtors, which allows only the calculation of the emissions for the reference year. This provision is contrary to the legislative proposal 4. Article 4 (1) (a) of Regulation (EC) No 16/A. It amends paragraph 3 of Section 3. It is therefore necessary to adopt the amendment tabled. I ask you to support this proposal. Thank you for your attention.
u2016-11-21-309	Thank you, too. Mr. Secretary, may I take it you want to reflect at the end? [[Zsolt V. Németh: I want to end it, yes. Thank you very much.]] It's okay. The Committee on Sustainable Development has not presented a rapporteur. We now have speeches from Members. Congressman Lajos Kepli, Jobbik, here you go.
u2016-11-21-310	Thank you very much. I will be as brief as I have just been, although somewhat different in content. With regard to the regulation of the environmental product fee, as stated in the general debate, we have fundamental problems. This amendment is not primarily our problem, but the feature of the environmental product charging system is that it is an income in the central budget, of which only a small proportion is returned to the implementation of waste management objectives. Thus, the environmental product fee, as such, does not meet or only partially fulfil the objectives set out in its own name. Therefore, we cannot support this proposal with a calm conscience, which is why we will not support it. We have repeatedly said that products which are subject to an environmental product fee which are essentially intended for the protection of the environment, such as solar panels through renewable energy systems. We have also said that waste streams that should be replaced by less dangerous materials are not necessarily preferred. This regulation is not necessarily appropriate for this purpose. As it does not meet these basic objectives, it can in fact be regarded as a kind of tax revenue, a kind of budgetary revenue. Therefore, we cannot support this proposal and, in general, the current regulation of the environmental product fee. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2016-11-21-311	Thank you very much. Would anyone else like to speak, Honourable Parliament? [[No one's reporting.]] I'll establish that there are no candidates. The debate is closed. Secretary of State, please.
u2016-11-21-312	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, When amending the Environmental Product Fee Act, the legislative intention was to establish a simplified, transparent set of rules. This is what the current amendment was aimed at. I would like to thank Mr László Salacz for presenting during the debate the lack of coherence in the proposal and the way it is resolved. This amendment, as well as other clarifications, is supported by the government, and I would ask that the proposal be supported in the same way during tomorrow's vote on the bill. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2016-11-21-313	Thank you very much. Decisions will take place on tomorrow's sitting, Honourable Parliament. The Commission's reports on the amendment of certain laws in the context of the prevention and management of the introduction or introduction of invasive alien species and of the spread of invasive alien species, together with the discussion of the summarised amendment proposal, follow up. The government referral is T/12590. The Commission's non-autonomous texts are available on the Parliament's IT network. I declare that the presentation will be discussed as an EU item on the agenda by the Parliament. First, the position of the Legislative Committee will be presented. Mr László Salacz, rapporteur for the committee, will say. Here. [[20.00]]
u2016-11-21-314	Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, I inform the National Assembly that the Legislative Committee also discussed T/12590 on 17 November 2016. The Commission presented a bill amending certain laws in the context of the prevention and management of the introduction or introduction of invasive alien species and presented a proposal for amendment and a summary report with 26 votes in favour and no votes against. The summarised amendment contains the proposals submitted by the Committee for Sustainable Development, which our committee has also supported. Ladies and gentlemen, The proposal does not intend to transform the well-functioning framework of existing national legislation, but takes the step at a legislative level to ensure that legislation implementing the management of invasive alien species is in line. The purpose of the proposed legislation is to make the introduction, introduction, spread and management of invasive alien species more effective in accordance with the relevant EU regulation. That is why I ask you to vote in favour of the final vote. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-11-21-315	Thank you, too. [[Towards Zsolt V. Németh:]] Secretary of State, same as before? [[Zsolt V. Németh: Yes, thank you very much.]] Okay, I'll give you the floor at the end. No minority opinion will be presented, because the minority representative is not here. No two-minute speeches are possible. This is a speech by Members. Congressman Lajos Kepli, Jobbik, here you go.
u2016-11-21-316	Thank you very much, Mr. President. In connection with this bill, Jobbik would once again like to testify that he is taking action against forced introduction, whether it is people or plants; we are not in favour of plant invasion, just as we are not in favour of human invasion, so we will support this bill. The joke is aside: the preservation of biodiversity is very important for Jobbik, and, of course, in view of its long-term consequences, we consider the spread of non-indigenous invasive species in Hungary to be very dangerous, and we are also trying to combat it as effectively as possible with our own tools. In this case, we can do this by supporting this bill. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2016-11-21-317	Thank you, and I am glad that we have not turned this issue into a migrant issue. [[Defiance.]] Dear Parliament, I'm asking if anyone else wants to speak. [[No one's reporting.]] I'm gonna say no. Secretary of State, Secretary Zsolt V. Németh, please.
u2016-11-21-318	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, In order to implement and transpose the Regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council, the bill amends sectoral laws, by number six, relating to the prevention and management of the introduction or introduction and spread of invasive alien species. Allow me to express my thanks for the contributions and even the unanimous vote in favour of the bill, both during the debate and in the Legislative Committee. I trust that my fellow Members will act in the same way in the decision tomorrow. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-11-21-319	Thank you very much. I would like to inform you that the decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting. Dear Parliament, The Commission's reports on the proposal for a civil procedure and the summary amendment are now under discussion. The government referral is T/11900. The Commission's non-autonomous texts are available on the Parliament's IT network. First, the position of the Legislative Committee will be presented in the debate. First, I give the floor to Congressman Vas Imre, rapporteur of the committee. Here.
u2016-11-21-320	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, I hereby inform the Parliament that on 17 November 2016 the Legislative Committee discussed the bill No 11900 on civil procedure, and the committee submitted 27 amendments and summary reports to it, summarizing 27 yes, 1 non-voting and 3 abstentions. The summarised amendment contains, on the one hand, the extensive amendment proposed by the Judicial Committee and the TAB's own motion, which is in excess of 24 points, which clarifies the text of the Judicial Committee. As has been said several times in the debate, the creation of civil proceedings has been the result of the work of the last three years, since the Ministry of Justice prepared the bill with almost full coverage of the competent members of the legal society, and the Minister appointed a special ministerial commissioner. There can be no accusation against the government and the legislature, that it would adopt the bill in haste and haste, adding that two and a half months were available for the parliamentary hearing, as well as for the submission of amendments. We have taken into account OBH's comments and included opposition proposals in the bill. Otherwise, the legislative committee debate was practically not about the bill, but - inexplicably - opposition representatives complained about a time gap. We have been used before to refer to the shortness of time when there is no substantive objection to the bill. I believe that there has been a good time for Members from the submission of the bill to the final vote tomorrow, so I ask you to support the adoption of the bill. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-11-21-321	Thank you very much. I will ask Mr Pál Völner, as rapporteur, if he wishes to speak now. [[Dr. Völner on Pál's signal:]] At the end. [[Dr. Pál Völner nodds.]] I see. Dear Parliament, I would like to inform you that the designated Justice Committee has not presented a rapporteur. This will be the next speech of the Members; no two-minute speeches will be possible. I'll see if anyone wants to tell me. [[No one's reporting.]] I'm gonna say no. The debate is closed. Now, Mr. Secretary, would you like to speak? [[Dr. Pál Völner: No. There was no argument.]] That was a very good answer: no. [[Defiance.]] Since the Secretary of State does not wish to speak - which is so logical that, since there was no comment before him, what would he have reacted to now - I urge you to acknowledge that the decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting, and so I will close this item on the agenda. Now, Honourable Parliament, the 2003 LXXX on legal aid follows. The Commission's reports on the amendment of law and certain laws to procedural issues and the discussion of the summarised amendment proposal. The Government's referral is T/1271. The Commission's non-autonomous texts are available on the Parliament's IT network. In the debate, the position of the Legislative Committee will be presented by Mr Vas Imre, rapporteur of the committee. Here you go.
u2016-11-21-322	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, I would like to inform you that, at its meeting on 17 November 2016, the Legislative Committee discussed the 2003 LXXX on legal aid. T/1271 on the amendment of Act T/1271 on procedural issues and certain laws Bill No. 1. The summary amendment and the summary report were adopted by 23 votes in favour, 2 votes against and 2 abstentions. During the committee meeting, the members discussed the Commission's proposal to close the detailed debate on the background, which included substantive and technical amendments. At the committee meeting, we had a shorter debate on the bill. Please support the adoption of the bill.
u2016-11-21-323	Thank you very much. I'll ask Secretary Völner if he wants to speak now. [[Dr. Pál Völner: No.]] It says no. No rapporteur was presented by the designated Judicial Committee. There will be speeches by Members; no two-minute speeches will be possible. I'll ask you, Honourable Parliament, if anyone would like to speak. [[No one's reporting.]] I'm gonna say no. The debate is closed. Secretary of State... [[Dr. Pál Völner says no.]] As a matter of fact, you don't want to say anything, thank you very much. Dear Parliament, The decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting. [[20.10]] Next up is the 1995 XCVII on aviation. The Commission's reports on the amendment of the Act and the debate on the draft amendment. The government referral T/12591. The Commission's non-autonomous texts are available on the Parliament's IT network. I declare that the presentation will be discussed as an EU item on the agenda by the Parliament. The first is the position of the Legislative Committee. Mr László Salacz, rapporteur for the committee, will interpret this. Here.
u2016-11-21-324	Mr President, Dear House, I inform the National Assembly that the Legislative Committee discussed the 1995 XCVII on aviation on the 17th of November 2016. T/12591. The Committee adopted a proposal for amendment and a summary report with 25 votes in favour and 2 non-voting votes. The summarised amendment contains a four-point proposal from the Economic Committee, which, on the one hand, technically clarifies the text submitted. On the other hand, it is necessary to amend it in order to bring it into line with Act C of 2003 on electronic communications. The Eht. it regulates the acquisition of rights to use radio frequencies in detail, so it is sufficient to refer to this general wording in the aviation law for both civil and public aircraft. Furthermore, as a result of the status of the National Media and Infocommunications Authority, the President may issue a regulation in agreement with the member of the Government, thus ensuring consistency with the rules on the radio service by means of the consultation provided for in the proposal before the regulation is issued, which will be done by the amending proposal. I'd like your support for the bill. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-11-21-325	Thank you very much. I'm going to ask Mr. Secretary Major if he wants to speak now.
u2016-11-21-326	Thank you, Mr. President. Yeah.
u2016-11-21-327	Here you go.
u2016-11-21-328	Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, In view of the Commission's proposal to close the detailed debate, the Legislative Committee also presented a comprehensive amendment to the bill which, as we have heard, contains technical clarifications to facilitate the future application of the law. The summarised amendment is in line with the government's position. In view of all this, I would ask the honourable Parliament to support the summarised amendment. Thank you for the opportunity, Mr. President.
u2016-11-21-329	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I would like to inform you that the designated Economic Committee has not presented a rapporteur. We now have speeches from Members. No two-minute comments are possible. As a normal speaker, Mr István Józsa, representative of the MSZP, is next. Here you go.
u2016-11-21-330	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I am very pleased that the summarised amendments have carried out the technical clarifications, and this was very necessary. The proposal, in its amendment to the Aviation Act, makes a relatively sudden and large restructuring of the basic concepts, with a lasting result. To the new challenges, such as drones, we see that it was only so suddenly, come and see that it was able to answer the proposal. The rules of detail are not yet known. However, it is immediately apparent from the law amendment that they want to fine it, and they will, because they will receive the authority from themselves under the law. The six-day notification rule to law enforcement agencies, although safety is always a priority, raises further questions in this case. It is important to note that Hungarian pilot training schools support themselves in the market by eliminating state-supported training, so they also have many foreign students. Since their training can only be imagined as requiring a residence permit, they will pass a security screening once upon obtaining the residence permit. Here, according to the law, we need this one more time. So I would like to criticise a rather comprehensive, but not all areas of life, legislative amendment, which plans to amend the aviation law in several areas. Some of these are of a legitimate legal nature, but there are also a number of changes in content. It includes the re-elaboration of the details of the Common Use Airport. The defence portfolio intends to maintain the competence of the military aviation authority with regard to certain authorisation procedures, given that the joint use airport will primarily serve aircraft movements for public purposes, i.e. other than general air traffic. With regard to the use of the common use airport for public purposes, it intends to refer to the authority of the military aviation authority to authorise the establishment, development and termination of the airport, the authorisation of its protection zone for noise protection, which may not, for example, constitute a protection of the environmental criteria for noise prevention. The other important area is: the concept of non-registered aircraft ceases to exist and the definitions are replaced by the aircraft and the unmanned aircraft. Although the concept of aircraft has been clarified in the law, even models of aircraft will be subject to the same rules as unmanned aircraft, so by changing the concept of unmanned aircraft, the concept of model aircraft will be incorporated into this category, this concept. It can be seen that suddenly, overnight, there can be a very strong mix of changes in concepts, because not all models of airplanes hit the level of the unmanned aircraft category. The proliferation of unmanned aircraft requires the government to allow the police to initiate a fine procedure in addition to the aviation authority, but how this is going to happen seems to be the intention at present. In this case, as we have seen many times this year, the government sees a solution to a problem immediately in fines, rather than correct, enforceable regulation. In the present case, the regulation will remain debtors, leaving a subsequent ministerial regulation to the place where an air traffic permit is not required for the use of an unmanned vehicle and where it is necessary. Therefore, the Parliament cannot decide on substantive regulation, and we do not know about it. The law provides for the obligation to notify the training organisation to inform the police about the training of aircraft, aircraft drivers and parachutes of third-country nationals, as well as to prohibit the participation of such persons in cases of national security interest and terrorist threats. That's not entirely lifelike. The obligation to notify six days before the event is outside the scope of practice. If we call the tandem jump a parachute jump legally, which is actually a tourist attraction, it will be almost impossible to comply with this law, because 99 percent of the time, foreign tandem travelers report only a day or two before the jump, and no one asks where they come from, and they can't legally ask for their documents because they have them. Before jumping, they only have to fill out a declaration of responsibility that they are willing to take the risk and take the risk. Tandemumping is an amateur sport-recreational activity, and there is no official obligation for tandem travelers, and no training is legally carried out, just a briefing. [[20.20]] The question is whether this will be classified into the training category and, if so, how to resolve the contradiction that it should be announced six days earlier, when it may be six days before the person does not even know that he will participate in a tandem jump, because he may only face the possibility of doing so during his journey. So we see such and similar problems in this proposal, and we find it very difficult for the government to comply with the law on legislation, according to which when the bill is presented, the related regulations must also be at the disposal of Parliament, so that it can be judged at all what the government will do and how it will regulate. There's only one sketch here, and what you can really see is that it solves some of the problems, and it adds some of them to the danger of even more serious confusion. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2016-11-21-331	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, Anybody else want to tell me? [[No signal.]] I'm gonna say no. The debate is closed. I'll ask Mr. Secretary Major if you'd like to speak. [[For signal:]] Here you go.
u2016-11-21-332	Thank you, Mr. President. In response to the critical words of my fellow Member, allow me to draw your attention to two things. One is that the main aim of such and similar regulations is to ensure security and, above all, to apply European standards and European rules to Hungarian relations. As far as your specific comments are concerned, what you consider to be a draft or a draft is called legislation. Obviously, the law will lay down the framework and the implementing regulations will be laid down by a government and ministerial decree based on this. I am not an aviation expert, but I do not need to stress before this House that the technical development of drones and flight models has taken place very quickly, and that was a child's play or a family hobby or entertainment one or two years ago, has turned into an activity that is often very advanced today, which is often a threat to air transport and which is questioning a number of other rules. The use of drones has changed aviation safety in many ways, from the protection of personal rights to many other rules, so I believe that these regulations were necessary and I must say the same for model aircraft. I know from practice that in recent years there have been numerous complaints from the public that flying high-performance aircraft in places where residents are not warned of these dangers has sometimes had serious consequences. So I consider the legislation of these to be absolutely necessary and justified. I hope that the concerns of the Member of the implementing rules will be addressed, so I ask you to vote tomorrow to support the adoption of the law. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-11-21-333	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, I would like to inform you that the decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting. Now, Honourable Parliament, the Commission's reports on the amendment of certain climate policy and green economic development laws and the discussion of the summarised amendment proposal follow. Government referral T/12721. The Commission's non-autonomous texts are available on the Parliament's IT network. In this debate, we can first hear the position of the Legislative Committee in the interpretation of Mr László Salacz, rapporteur of the committee. Here.
u2016-11-21-334	Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, I hereby inform the Parliament that the Legislative Committee2016. T/12721 was discussed on the 17th of November. The proposal for a regulation amending certain legislation relating to climate policy and green economy development, and, in this context, the House Rule 46. It adopted a report with 22 votes in favour, 2 votes against and 2 abstentions and a summary amendment proposal. The amended amendment adopted includes the amendment proposal of the Economic Committee and the legislative committee's own amendment proposal. I would add that the last few points have been overwritten. It is well known that the European Union and our country must take significant steps to combat climate change in order to bring about environmental, social and economic adaptation to climate change. The bill before us also includes amendments to the introduction of METAR. The METAR system should be introduced as soon as possible, ensuring that it can be launched as a support scheme as from 1 January 2017. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to ask you to support amendments to both the climate policy and the green economy and the reduction of emissions. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-11-21-335	Thank you, too. Secretary Major, would you like to speak now? [[For signal:]] Here you go.
u2016-11-21-336	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, The provisions of the bill amend the individual laws on climate policy, the Electricity Act, the Energy Efficiency Act and the Water Utility Services Act. In the course of the discussion of the motion, we also received two amendments from our fellow Member, Mónika Bartos, which were supported by the government. One proposal complements the Energy Efficiency Act by introducing a provision that is essential for the closed nature of the legal system. The other complements the new legal institution of the Energy Efficiency Act, the regulation of the Energy Rapporteur. The reason for this is that the definition of the scope of personal data requires legal regulation. The amendment, which closed the detailed debate, submitted by the Economic Committee, included further improvements in language accuracy, wording and codification. Dear Parliament, The summarised amendment tabled by the Legislative Committee is in line with the government's position, so I would ask that the summary amendment and the bill be supported by their vote in the course of tomorrow's hearing. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-11-21-337	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, I now give the floor to Mr Jenő Manninger, rapporteur for the Committee on Sustainable Development for the debate. Here you go.
u2016-11-21-338	Mr President, Dear Parliament, At its meeting on 15 November, the Committee on Sustainable Development held a detailed debate on the bill, which concluded that the relevant law, the bill amending certain laws relating to climate policy and green economy development, complied with the provisions of the House Regulations 44. § (1) of the Fundamental Law and additional legal and legislative requirements. No amendments were tabled to the bill here, nor did the committee intend to amend it. The committee closed the detailed debate on the bill on 15 November. The proposal aims to amend six laws in the areas of climate policy, energy policy and water utility services. In relation to climate policy, it reduces the burden on those engaged in fluorinated greenhouse gas activities, improves the effectiveness of the controls carried out by the National Climate Protection Authority, introduces the concepts of adaptation and exposure in the relevant Climate Policy Act, regulates the transitional fee for water utility services through a fee compensation scheme, shortens the administrative deadline for national priority administrative matters. In order to achieve our country's energy policy objectives, it introduces the national energy network, the energy specialist institution, clarifies the regulation of energy audit and ensures the implementation of the main elements of the METAR system in early 2017. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] [[20.30]]
u2016-11-21-339	Thank you very much. We now have speeches from Members. I would like to inform you that a two-minute speech is not possible. As a representative asking for a normal word, Mr Lajos Kepli, representative of Jobbik is next. Here you go.
u2016-11-21-340	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, Indeed, in the light of Kyoto, after Paris and Marrakesh, we can all see that there may not be a political group or Member in Parliament who does not realize how important climate protection and the pursuit of green economy policy objectives are, and every time such a law comes before Parliament, we have the opportunity to discuss this in a slightly broader context, as we have done now, in the general debate. I also said that some of the measures could indeed be useful, that the introduction of METAR was a little delayed instead of the KÁT system, the point is that support for renewable energy production should take place in the right way, which we do not see yet. N Yylvan will be able to talk about this on the basis of the established system, but we have been feeling somewhat delayed for years. We think that climate policy may be divided into two parts: the fight against climate change, I say. On the one hand, the reduction of emissions is indeed a very important part of this, but on the other hand, preparing or preparing for the effects of climate change would also be very important for the country, and this is also the part that we consider to be somewhat incomplete. Overall, the government has made efforts to promote climate policy, but we do not consider these to be sufficient, especially in the light of the fact that Hungary's emissions represent only a small part or part of the European Union economy, but it is very important that the Hungarian economy should also be stimulated by the growth of the green economy as a separate economic sector, as this has already happened in several Western European countries, and, of course, it can be more effective both in its renewable energy production system and in its energy efficiency measures, which are themselves part of this green economy and participate more. I am trying to encourage the government here every time to step up the courage of these green economy development measures and to promote or introduce a bolder system of renewable energy support. Despite the fact that we know the other side of Hungary, of course, we know how well Hungary's current electricity network is prepared to receive renewable energy, but even so in the climate policy struggle, I think we are at 24 hours or at the 59th minute of 23 hours. That is why we do not have time to think about whether we have time to take these measures in a few decades or now, because if we had done it yesterday, it would be too late. In this regard, there is no debate between us. However, we will remain in the final vote because we would like to continue to encourage the government in that direction, or rather signal to the government that we are not entirely satisfied with the steps taken in this area. Thank you very much. [[It's a rare round of applause from the Jobbik benches.]]
u2016-11-21-341	Thank you. Dear Members, Anybody else want to tell me? [[No signal.]] I'm gonna say no. The debate is closed. Mr. Secretary of State, if you'd like to speak. [[Dr. János Fónagy: Thank you very much, no.]] Secretary of State, Secretary of State Major indicates that he does not wish to speak now, he has already spoken. So I will inform you that the decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting. The Commission's reports for the submission of a free transfer of certain state and municipal property and the discussion of the summarised amendment are now in order. The government referral is T/12734. The Commission's non-autonomous texts are available on the Parliament's IT network. First, the position of the Legislative Committee will be presented in the debate. We are listening to Congresswoman Mónika Dunai, rapporteur for the committee. Here you go.
u2016-11-21-342	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, On 18 November 2016, the Legislative Committee discussed the T/12734 on the free transfer of certain state and municipal property. The Committee presented a proposal for amendment and a summary report with 21 votes in favour, 6 against and 1 abstention. The summarised amendment includes, on the one hand, a two-point proposal from the Economic Committee and, on the other hand, a proposal from the Legislative Committee. According to the proposals of the Economic Committee, an III. district property may be transferred to the Unified Israeli Community of Hungary, while a property in Tatabánya may be used in the future by the Catholic Church for social, cultural, educational and religious purposes. The Legislative Committee's own motion provides for the free transfer of the ownership of the proposed state-owned property, with the aim of establishing Community-based forest and service buildings and the necessary infrastructure in the historical sport area of Normafa Park, capable of providing complex services of an international standard by handing over local environmental and nature protection, sport and tourism tasks. XXXVII of 2009 on forest, forest protection and forestry Law No. 2 The main public interest task in sustainable forest management is to preserve the diversity of forests, to maintain forests, to renovate forests and to provide protection and welfare services. At the same time as the transfer of certain public tasks listed in the proposal, the property concerned is free of charge from Budapest Capital XII. The district is owned by the Municipality of Hegyvidék on condition that the XII. District Mountain Municipality takes full responsibility for the property. The proposal also makes it clear that the sub-section of the property concerned by the transfer constitutes a national asset of national importance for the national economy. Furthermore, it is necessary to clarify the date on which the public park in Erzsébet Square was granted state ownership in the bill, taking into account the timing of the hearing of the bill. With these amendments, I ask this House to support the bill that has been tabled. Thank you for your attention.
u2016-11-21-343	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Secretary Major, please.
u2016-11-21-344	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, I do not wish to repeat the above-mentioned exposé of the Legislative Committee, confirming that we agree with its content. What I would like to emphasise from the government, in addition to what has been said, is that, with the assets provided for in the bill, the public parks concerned and the property in the park will remain within the scope of national property, in addition to the assets owned by the two ecclesiastical institutions. I would like to thank the Economic Committee and the Legislative Committee for their contribution. I am sure that the government's ambition to use public areas with appropriate responsibilities and commitments who can make the best use of those areas for the common good is certainly to be supported. On the basis of everything, I ask the Honourable Parliament to support the bill and the summarised amendment. Thank you, Mr. President. [[Mónika Dunai applauds.]] [[20.40]]
u2016-11-21-345	Thank you very much. I would like to inform you that the designated Economic Committee has not presented a rapporteur. We now have speeches to make; no two-minute comments are possible. I'll ask you if anyone wants to speak. [[No signal.]] I'm gonna say no. The debate is closed. I will ask Mr Secretary of State - but really only because of the scripting obligations - if he wishes to speak. [[Dr. János Fónagy: Thank you, Mr. President, no.]] That makes sense. Thank you, too. So I will inform you that the decisions will take place on tomorrow's sitting, Honourable Parliament. So we've come to the end of the discussion of our agendas today. It is now time to speak after the agenda. I would like to inform you, Honourable Parliament, that Mr Ander Balázs, representative of Jobbik, has applied for a speech after the agenda:.The Snow of Nature - has died out again with the title of a Hungarian settlement. Here you go, Congressman.
u2016-11-21-346	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Indeed, November, in terms of the name of the old Hungarian, is thinning, the snow of passing away. This month there is the name of our first king's holy son, Imre. His name is preserved by the small settlement in Somogy, Somogyszentim, whose extinction, extinction, and passing away I now wish to speak here. This is the small settlement, which is one in the line of the Cactus, in the settlements of Somogy County, which will now only greet us on the basis of the history books, from there we can meet them; he went to the grave, and as a memento of the sad Hungarian passing, the stone cross of his former cemetery now stands, as the owner of the area began to destroy the buildings. A few years or a few months from now, there will be a corn tablet, a rape tablet, or a poplar tree will be planted there, as some of the large owners there in the region of South Somogy. However, the history of this settlement has not always been so sad. We're talking about eight thousand-year-olds, and they've already found mesolitics. The first written mention was dated 1397; then, in 1886, a Hungarian Royal Land School was opened, and 135 students graduated from the first year, and in the Horthy era was also famous for the training institute that worked here, its bee-keeping was famous, it had a fish pond, a cow's milk, and in the Kaposvár fair, about two thousand mangalicas were driven every year to sell the animals there. After World War II, Bárdibükki State Economy also took over this area, and its fate was sealed by the 1968 communist-socialist transport policy concept, which passed the death sentence on so many rural sidelines. A few years later, the railway line here was also closed, which, by the way, connected Kaposvár with Barcs. This also sealed the fate of Somogyszentimre, an administratively belonging to Kadarkút. After the change of regime in 1993, some 80 percent of the land was transferred to Austrian owners by a so-called compensation error, and this new major owner did everything he could to ensure that this area, this settlement, had no social responsibility at all; his appearance here was clear: in fact he was spreading social and economic mortality, like so many other large owners in this area. Then, in July 2016, the last resident of this settlement died. But I think that we need to look further at Somogyszentim's extinction and extinction, and here we need to list some social and municipal data, because the disappearance of this settlement shows that there are huge problems with small settlements in Hungary. There are some 1,800 settlements with a population of less than 1,000 inhabitants, and if we look at the distribution of these, we can see that there are about 400 small settlements where the population does not reach 200 people, but their territory covers 3,000 square kilometers, and there are 700 other settlements where the population is between 200 and 500 people, which cover some 10,000 square kilometres. So, overall, it can be said that we are talking about some 300,000 souls in some 14 thousand square kilometres, so a significant part of Hungary will become wasted if the things that I myself face as a rural Member of Parliament continue to continue, as the agricultural policy that has been promised so many times by the government is completely lacking. And if we think of the likeness of Tormay Cécile, which compared the Hungarian nation to a shrub tree, and the root of it is the countryside, then we must see that this shrub is chewed and digested by a very serious disease, and we must fear that not only the coral will fall, as it has fallen in Hungary, but these small settlements will also fall, and they will go to the grave, just like Somogyszentim. We believe in Jobbik that these small settlements are indeed the end of the Hungarian national survival, but the problem is that they live their final hours. We are asking the government - more than that - to do so - to do so. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] pay particular attention to these municipalities as well. We can't give up on them. Thank you for your attention. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2016-11-21-347	Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speech after the agenda. Thank you for your work. The Parliament will resume its session at 9:00 a.m. tomorrow morning. Meeting day's closed. Good night, everyone. [[Meeting ended at 20:46 p.m.]]
