u2016-10-11-0	[[The people in this room stand up and greet the voters' community. When the chairman of the meeting takes his seat, the people in the room will sit down. The representatives of the LMP wear a T-shirt with "Stop CETA" on it.]] Good morning, fellow Members. I welcome you all with love. The 9th day of the autumn session of the Parliament is hereby opened. I would like to inform you that István Tiba and István Ikotity will be taking part in this meeting. Welcome to our dear guests and all those who are monitoring our work today. As usual, we will start with speeches before the agenda. We must prevent the signing of the CETA Agreement by Mrs Erzsébet Schmuck from the LMP Group for a speech before the agenda. Madam director, you have the floor, please.
u2016-10-11-1	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Today we are voting on whether the Hungarian Government will sign a free trade agreement between Canada and the EU on 27 October, completely secretly, with the exclusion of people, but with the involvement of multinational companies, by September 2014. The position of the LMP is clear: Parliament and the government say no to CETA! According to the LMP, the Government will no longer speak of national interest and national interest if it signs the Convention. It must be said: CETA is not in the interest of Hungarian workers, nor is it in the interest of any Hungarian citizen. CETA serves only and exclusively the interests of foreign large companies. The main objective of this free trade agreement is also to break down all obstacles before profit maximization. And we have already seen that the profits generated by foreign companies in Hungary are being taken out of the country. The government claims that CETA will contribute to the growth of the Hungarian economy, but this is only a visceral approach, with no specific calculation can support this. Independent studies were carried out at international level, but these show the opposite. CETA could reduce GDP growth in the European Union and lead to job losses. CETA is harmful to Hungarian companies, especially small and medium-sized enterprises, because they are placed at a greater competitive disadvantage in their own country. The Fidesz government has already done everything to achieve this, since strategic partnerships with foreign large companies, the distribution of grants and the conversion of vocational training have not served small and medium-sized enterprises. With the support of CETA, it is necessary to say that the government will pound the last nail into the coffin of Hungarian small and medium-sized enterprises. CETA is bad for Hungarian workers. By making the country completely vulnerable at the economic level, there will be no chance of exiting the downward wage competition. Following the adoption of CETA, it will further strengthen the disintegration of society, increase workers' poverty and bring emigration to a higher level than is currently the case. CETA is bad for the Hungarian people. After all, it will lead to the elimination of Hungary's GMO-freeness, thus allowing a free way for poor quality, unhealthy food to be placed on the table of any Hungarian family. It endangers food safety and environmental standards, ignoring one of the European Union's main principles: the precautionary principle. With the adoption of CETA, the Hungarian Government will ultimately also waive national self-determination. The Canadian-EU signing convention includes the anti-democratic investor-state dispute resolution mechanism, in a slightly modified form, the so-called investment court system. This will allow governments to continue to sue if the investor considers that his future profits are threatened by certain health or environmental rules. Although CETA includes the right of governments to regulate, this is misdefined and freely understood in the Convention. It widens the gate by introducing the concept of a legitimate expectation of investors before unjustified litigation, and the final judges will not be permanent judges paid independently of the cases. Lawyers also pointed out that the investment court system is contrary to European and domestic law. It is illegal because it discriminates against companies incorporated in Canada to grant special rights to EU companies and to lead court proceedings out of the European legal system, giving the judges a higher jurisdiction than the European Court of Justice. According to this, foreign large companies will be able to force their will on the Hungarian state in anti-democratic courts. The Hungarian government, if it signs the agreement, will give up protecting Hungarian people and Hungarian small and medium-sized enterprises against foreign large companies. The government can now do for self-determination, for the better life of the Hungarian people. We expect you to say no to CETA. Thank you for your attention. [[Intercom from LMP and Jobbik: That's right! Applause in the ranks of LMP and Jobbik.]]
u2016-10-11-2	Thank you very much, Madam Group leader. The answer will be given by Mr Péter Szijjártó, Minister of Foreign Affairs and Trade. Here you go, Minister.
u2016-10-11-3	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and Gentlemen, Ladies and gentlemen, First of all, thank you very much for bringing this subject up before the agenda today, because I think that Parliament is about to make a very important decision for the Hungarian foreign economy, but we also need to see that this is the first of the important decisions, because if the Parliament gives Hungary the opportunity to contribute to the signing of the European Union-Canada Free Trade Agreement [[Dr. Szél Bernadett: With which you betray Hungary!]] Then the ratification process will begin, and the matter will have to be returned to the Hungarian Parliament at least once more. Ladies and Gentlemen, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and The situation is as follows: Hungary is a country with an open economy, we all know that. Our export/GDP index is well above 90 percent, the foreign direct operating capital entering Hungary basically determines the performance of the Hungarian national economy. [[Dr. Wind Bernadett intervenes.]] [[Dr. Wind Bernadett intervenes.]] If you look at what economic processes are currently taking place in the world, you can obviously see that the system of free trade agreements is expanding, the major players in the world economy are constantly concluding these agreements. (Dr. Wind Bernadett intervenes. ) I believe that if Europe misses this process fatally, it will lead to a further drastic deterioration in European competitiveness and in Hungary's competitiveness. You have rightly defended the interests of Hungarian small and medium-sized enterprises. I am very curious about what you say to Hungarian small and medium-sized enterprises whose vast majority of income comes from being part of the supply chains of large international companies producing in Hungary, and what would happen to these Hungarian small and medium-sized enterprises if these large international companies did not produce in Hungary and did not give them the opportunity to become suppliers of Hungarian small and medium-sized enterprises. [[Dr. Wind Bernadett intervenes.]] On strategic agreements only, Madam Group leader, since we started to conclude strategic agreements, Hungary's share of small and medium-sized enterprises has increased by four percent between suppliers, which have represented an additional revenue of HUF 10 billion or more. [[Dr. Wind Bernadett intervenes.]] for Hungarian small and medium-sized enterprises. I would just like to tell you, Mr President, that, although I have all the respect for the ladies, I have listened silently to my fellow Member's contribution, unfortunately from my fellow Members in this - how should I put it? - I'm not honoured at the moment, but if you'll allow me, I'd still like to think [[Miklós Soltés applauds.]] the fact that the statement made here by the Head of the Group is worthy of an answer. You also know very well that about 79 percent of Hungarian exports are destined for the European Union, but a significant part of this exports will be further exported, essentially to North America, and there is currently a North American free trade agreement, which is called NAFTA, which is part of Canada, the United States, and Mexico, so at present European companies are at a competitive disadvantage on the Canadian market, which can overcome the competitive disadvantage of the EU-Canada free trade agreement. [[9.10]] Ladies and Gentlemen, What I can tell you is that the European Union-Canada Free Trade Agreement in its present form does not jeopardise our GMO exemption. I understand that the biggest professional and otherwise emotional debate has developed around this issue, but I would also like to point out once again to you that, in our view, the expert's view, it is clear that our GMO exemption is not in any way threatened by the EU-Canada Free Trade Agreement. I would also like to say to you that during the negotiations, Hungarian sensitivities have been dealt with by the European Commission throughout the negotiating mandate, so poultrymeat and eggs have been excluded from the scope of liberalisation, in addition to the agreed tariff quota for sweet corn, customs duties remain. The designation of origin for Szeged salami, winter salami and Tokaj remained protected. I would also like to remind you that there is still a free trade agreement between Hungary and Canada. I'm sure you know that. They also know that the dispute settlement mechanism in the Free Trade Agreement between Hungary and Canada is far less favourable than what is included in the new Free Trade Agreement, so in this respect this could be a step forward if the Parliament decides that the Hungarian Government will give its consent to the signing of the agreement, and then when Parliament decides to do so, [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] to ratify this agreement. The decision is therefore in your hands, Madam Group leader, ladies and gentlemen. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-10-11-4	Thank you very much, Minister. Mr Gergely Bárándy from the MSZP Group, with the title of corruption of the day or one case for each day, has applied for a speech before the agenda. Congressman, you have the floor.
u2016-10-11-5	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, There's usually a catch of the day in restaurants, something new every day. The government seems to be operating with a similar view, with a new corruption scandal on its menu almost every day of last week. We can start with Kishantos, where the court suspended the court's proceedings and turned to the Constitutional Court for unconstitutionality. However, the reasons for the decision are more interesting than that. According to the court, the law on which the trial is based violates international anti-corruption rules, the UN's international anti-corruption conventions. But chronologically, the first news on Monday was Antal Rogán's private helicopter trip, which, of course, in terms of his corruption level is minor, let's say, compared to the size of the settlement bonds of a hundred billion, but it is important. One of the most eloquent examples of an arrogant, pompous and provocative urination that has caused Fidesz to fail once in 2002 and will again. Antal Rogán's helicopter trip doesn't add up. If it were true that the company belonging to Mrs. Rogán's business would have been a barter service and later a favor service, why did you have to deny it? Although they don't really know Rogán in business circles, Antal Rogán is, unfortunately, better. The photos then began to explain that he was only a helicopter gentleman on the way back, and suddenly, with an idea, it turned out that days before the trip, even the landing strip had been painted. For the record, he may be held by new-rich people, but he doesn't go to a wedding in Szabolcs with a helicopter from Budapest, even if he has a decent money. Mr Rogán is right, of course, that he is not the latter, but he is excellent at urinating. There's Anti in Fidesz, there's corruption, there's anti-corruption, there's no anti-corruption. Then there's another episode of the Matolcsy Saga. Now, you're not giving family, friends, lovers, state millions, you're living in the apartment of a man you should be checking on. How do you think this isn't a high school of corruption, Mr. Matolcsy? The most classic case of corruption, the school example of accepting something from someone who has the right to make a decision; the traffic policeman from the driver, the construction worker from the contractor, the environmental officer from the owner of the dump, or the bank supervisor from the bank manager - called Matolcsy Patai. And yet, how does the Prime Minister think that after what happened, he will not fire the President of the Central Bank and instruct the police to take him into custody at the same time, when it has become common practice for civilians to personally instruct public authorities to carry out proceedings. But let's move on to another scandal last week. It has corrupted the good relations of two states and violated the principles of democracy, because the Hungarian government has launched conceptual procedures against civil society organisations for said reasons, because they have provided money to those who have severely criticised the government's activities. This is XXI. One of the new ways of restricting and suppressing freedom of expression is dictatorships of the century. Then, in court, it turned out that the destruction of civilians was completely illegal. The Prime Minister then pretended that he had not even heard about the procedures until they started, that the authorities were doing their job on their own. Today, it has been made public that Viktor Orbán personally instructed Kehi to proceed with the procedure, as is customary in dictatorships. I would add that it would be a shame to mention your resignation, with reference to the fact that this is the custom in democracies, because why would a XXI resign because of such a small thing? 100th century virtualigli dictator. At the end of this week, the government shut down the largest number of left-wing newspapers. The vice president of Fidesz told me that it's time for Népszabadság to close. The centralized and open state corruption I have been talking about so far is only the most important result of you being a real XXI. They have built a dictatorship of the century, a world in which democracy has a formal element or two, but in fact there is no division of power, no fair elections, no enforceable human and civil rights, no freedom of the press. I just hope, I know, that this dictatorship will not be beaten by force as our heroes did 60 years ago, but will die more peacefully. And what is most saddening, honourable Members, is that all these matters have fallen on you in a few days. Mr. Secretary, if you'll excuse me, stay seated. The opposition before the agenda shall not be required to react. Don't get beat up by a propaganda answer. It's a shame to destroy your own renome because of the inexplicable corruption of others. Stand here with the people involved and answer them themselves. Thank you very much.
u2016-10-11-6	Mr Csaba Dömötör, State Secretary, responds to what has been said. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2016-10-11-7	Since it covered a lot of subjects, I consider it appropriate to respond. Please take it. I would like to confirm many times that the government has declared zero tolerance to corruption. [[Noise, interruptions in the benches of MSZP.]] This is why the public procurement law is stricter, which is why the government has repressed VAT fraud and has therefore changed the EU's tendering system. [[Zoltán Pride: And nobody got anything for it! The CBAs are in Győr.]] Not least today, every company that starts a tender has to reveal its real ownership background. [[Dr. Gergely Bárándy: We already know that Simicska is behind it.]] This was not the case in your time, because in your time, offshore companies were typically placed in a position. [[Zoltán Haughty interrupts. The president's ringing the bell.]] I ask that if you are aware of any irregularities, you report them in accordance with your legal obligation. As to the reference to the helicopter: Minister Rogán answered all the questions raised yesterday. [[Zoltán Grimlock: He didn't answer anything.]] He also made it clear that the helicopter wasn't his. [[Dr. Gergely Bárándy: No one told me.]] He also made it clear that he felt that he had made a mistake. Since he directly assisted the Prime Minister, political attacks have increased against him. By the way, there's nothing to be surprised about, given that, at your time, the head of the secret service met with an underworld leader in order to collect discrediting materials for Fidesz politicians. [[Zoltán Haughty, who gave Rogán money. Dr. Gergely Bárándy: It's the same person who's been writing to Cuba.]] Antal Rogán was already on that list, so there's nothing to be surprised about what just happened. By the way, I'm sorry that, while you're referring to the protection of privacy, you're refusing to do the same when it comes to government politicians. Once again on the issue of Népszabadság: based on the information available, the decision on Népszabadság is considered an economic decision by the government, and if there is political responsibility for what happened to Népszabadság, then the Hungarian Socialist Party that sold its share in Népszabadság. [[Zoltán Grimlock: You're lying again! The zero-value minority part. The president's ringing the bell.]] I regret that your European colleagues have not been informed of this. Yesterday, your group leader here in this House spoke about the establishment of an anti-corruption task force by the MSZP. This is a good thing and an excellent initiative. I think everyone's in favour of this. Why do I say that? Because your former partner, Attila Mesterházy, said that corruption cases are a huge problem for the MSZP. Or think of Ferenc Gyurcsány, who said that it is better not to know where money migrated to the Hungarian Socialist Party, but not from Europe very much. I do not know whether we can propose what the Hungarian Socialist Party should be dealing with in this working group, but if we can afford to make a proposal, we ask that, above all, the Alstom case be investigated. [[9.20]] This is about the fact that the British authority is suspected of a bribe worth 600 million forints in connection with a subway investment. [[What about the Gripen?]] It is necessary to examine the damage suffered by the state, who made these decisions, whether the serious accusations were true at all, and whether a former left-wing Prime Minister was really involved. The Simon case has been going on for a long time, just like the strudel. We have told you many times, but it would be nice to find out how several hundred million forints could have come into Gábor Simon's account. Or do you not consider it a question to be clarified how hundreds of millions can be charged to a socialist leader? [[Zoltán Grimlock: It's the police's job!]] Does that happen every day to you? Everyone rightly expects that the new committee that you are setting up will also answer how many hundreds of millions of bills there are in the area of the Hungarian Socialist Party. [[Dr. Gergely Bárándy: Have I ever talked about such things? Answer what I asked you.]] Honourable Congressman, It is not too late to look into these questions, and I believe that your own voters rightly expect you to do so. It is in our common interest that the left finally be rid of the corruption shadows of the past. [[Zoltán Grimlock: But mostly from Fidesz!]] and end an ugly era. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-10-11-8	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Mr László Lukács, from Jobbik's group, called the second stage of the genuine national consultation, took the floor before the agenda. Congressman, you have the floor.
u2016-10-11-9	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, Yesterday started the second phase of the real national consultation for 2016. With the real national consultation, Jobbik prepared a consultation that took account of both professional organisations and the general public and gave their opinion, breaking off the consultation techniques of Fidesz and the government. In the first phase of the consultation, we conducted an effective and successful consultation with professional organisations on the issues from which the consultation sheet of the real national consultation was finally established in the three problematic areas. Thus, reaching the second stage yesterday and yesterday, Magyar Posta has continuously delivered to 4.2 million households the sheets - which you can see here in my hand - in which, using the response envelopes in it, the residents can send back for Jobbik Hungary free of charge after answering them, free of charge, and thus participate in the real national consultation. As I mentioned, prior to the public consultation, there was a professional consultation phase in which we dealt with health, education and anti-corruption, we consulted dozens of civil and professional organisations, in hundreds of locations, hospitals, schools, clinics and even in public areas, not only with residents, but also with professional organisations, institutional leaders and even half a hundred public forums on this issue. This issue was not only attended by national well-known politicians of Jobbik, but also by local representatives and local people and local leaders. Thus, in this real national consultation sheet, which will be given to 4.2 million households continuously this week, on 14 issues and on one point, namely 14 plus 1 issues, they can express their views on five issues relating to education, five health and four corruption issues. In health care, for example, they can talk about taboos, and they can comment on a taboo issue, such as the question of gratitude money, but they can also talk about whether they really feel that waiting lists have decreased or feel completely different from the way the government sets it up or how they want it to appear. They can also express their views on a topic which is taboo and perhaps less talked about by society, such as the placement of children in the boarding school, or, for example, whether the issue of centralisation is going in the right direction in education policy. With regard to corruption - one of the most important issues that affect people most and interest them most - they can express their views on whether they consider the fight against corruption that the government is continuing or are dissatisfied with, and how they intend to deal with corruption related to the corruption that strikes the heads of the governing parties, including the Habonyok, Andy Vajnák and even the Prime Minister's own circle, but they can also express their views on issues such as whether there is an anti-corruption prosecutor's office set up in Hungary on the Romanian model or operating according to it. I think these are the issues in which we are looking for an answer from the population. But, of course, we also provided an opportunity to ask an explicative question where they could also raise a problem with its justification and with the answers. It is also clear that those who participate in the real national consultation by completing the sheets will not only participate in the consultation but also in the writing of Jobbik's 2018 election programme, thereby contributing not only to the real programming of Jobbik, but also to the participation in the government's programme of the only remaining government-changer. So we ask everyone, and this is what we call attention to here in front of the Parliament's plenum and using its publicity to participate in answering 14 plus 1 questions, to give an opinion to as many residents as possible. The vast majority of the population consider these three topics to be the most important, most burning, and everyone will have the opportunity to participate in it now. We urge people to return to the largest possible number of sheets posted or posted yesterday, and we call on them to participate in the programming of the only force capable of changing government, to take their fate into their own hands, to show their destiny and to be able to intervene in the handling of important topics such as health, education and the fight against corruption, as they can now take advantage of the curves of the real national consultation to shape the daily lives of these struggles. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2016-10-11-10	Thank you very much, Congressman. The answer will be given by Secretary of State Csaba Dömötör. Here you go.
u2016-10-11-11	Honourable Congressman, I am very pleased that Jobbik finally realized that consultation is a good way of keeping in touch with voters and listening to their views. It wasn't always like that. Earlier, when the government initiated consultations, Jobbik even demanded that a committee of inquiry be set up; you can remember that. Listening to Jobbik's words about consultation and theme nominations, one can no longer determine the difference between a few percent left party and Jobbik. Gyula Molnár used the same words almost word for word, the same arguments when he drilled the referendum in recent weeks. I don't know why you want to be on the left side. As far as corruption is concerned: if you want to consult on this, it is worth taking advantage of to clarify the role of your group leader in an extensive VAT fraud case. It would be nice to clear up the biggest espionage scandal since the change of regime, and it would also be nice to find out why a significant part of the better faction spending lands in one mysterious group of companies. As far as education is concerned: if you are organising a consultation, please also tell us that teachers have just recently received an increase in salaries and that, thanks to the teacher's career model, their wages increase by an average of 50 percent over a number of years. I agree that the development of health care is a joint task, but if you consider it important, then why not mention in the consultation that specialists and specialists will receive a salary increase of HUF 207 thousand over several years. Or why don't you mention that nurses' wages are 65 percent higher? In the spring, it seemed to us that these questions, these measures, were important to you, and now they are not mentioned. How's that? In these circumstances, I must say that Jobbik's consultation is a prestigious balloon in pre-inflatation condition, which serves only party policy purposes. We also saw this during the referendum campaign. Their policy on the referendum was only for party policy purposes, which is why they didn't even appoint a campaign manager, which is why one of Jobbik's vice presidents flashed his talent in the one kiss and other nothing piece, and during the same period the president of Jobbik instead of encouraging him to participate in the referendum, introduced us to the mysteries of Moroccan gastronomy in a disturbingly lush ATV show instead of campaigning. It is a pity that as a national party they do not join the new national unity whose members stand up for Hungary. You seem to be going the other way, it looks like you're going the other way. Of course, this has partial results, it is enough to think that Ferenc Kőszeg, a former strong man of SZDSZ, encouraged readers of Life and Literature to vote for Jobbik and Gábor Vona the other day. So everything is given to you to be one of the many auxiliary teams on the left. [[9.30]] They've come a long way, but it's clear that Jobbik can do anything for money and power. Jobbik is a lot of things today, but not a national party. Thank you for your attention. [[Dr. István Apáti: Tell me something about Voldemort. Dr. Gábor Staudt: Csaba, is this how you ask for our help? Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-10-11-12	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Fellow Members! [[Intercoms from Jobbik's ranks.]] Fellow Members! Congressman Abbot, you have to sign in before the agenda, and I'm giving you the floor. Thank you very much. Mr Soltész, Member of the KDNP Group, asked for a speech before the agenda entitled 'Migration-related'. Here you go, Congressman.
u2016-10-11-13	Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, Prime Minister Viktor Orbán submitted the amendment of the Fundamental Law to the Parliament yesterday. I would like to highlight two important messages from this. One: The protection of Hungary's constitutional identity is the duty of every body of the state. The second is that no foreign population can be installed in Hungary. It's clear and precise. Indeed, all these amendments do not follow from a legal point of view from the outcome of the referendum, but they come directly from the united will that, regardless of party standing, 3 million 360,000 people did not vote for. Clear will, we do not accept Brussels' mandatory resettlement quotas. This is an alliance that is independent of the parties on the left, who, by the way, do not like to go to Parliament. After all, yesterday Ferenc Gyurcsány and his economic association announced that they would not participate in the work of the Parliament because of this proposal. Too bad, I don't think it's worth the National Assembly, they've never been to Parliament before. However, the Socialists' decision clearly goes against the will of their constituents. Once again, they are unable to rise on another national matter in their own petty party political interest. Their decisions go against the interests of the Hungarian nation. They did so on 5 December 2004 and did so in opposition in 2016, now, these days. Twelve years ago, they refused the Hungarian nation's dual citizenship and campaigned against them. Last year, 2015 in Brussels, they made every effort to drill and destroy the country in order to protect our borders. Now they also said no to the referendum, I mean they didn't come to vote, they urged against it, they supported mass immigration. Thus, it must be said that the Hungarian people, while not being accepted, did not want to help, they did not want to support the aliens at the time, and they did want to support those coming from a completely different culture. No wonder, however, the series of their actions, because as they betrayed their own newspaper, the People's Liberty, they accumulated debt, and then sold it, so now they betray and deceive their own voters by the socialists, and they also betray the Hungarian nation. Fortunately, it is possible to govern without them and to legislate without them. On the one hand, it is necessary to govern and take steps along the border in terms of solidarity and to protect Christians both in the Middle East and in other continents. That is why the government has decided to help all those in need along the border through charitable organisations. This is why the government has decided to set up schools and hospitals in the Middle East, which mostly serve the lives of Christians in the Middle East, and that is why the government has decided to strengthen policy against anti-Christianism in the diplomatic field. And in order to protect this country, it's clear what we're doing. On the one hand, along the border, we put it into a fundamental law amendment, the duty of every body of the state is to protect, and the other: we will not allow a foreign population into this country, we will not allow mass immigration. And no matter what the socialists say, whatever their party president or group leader says, Brussels doesn't want all this, it's a lie and a slander. Because the fact is that Brussels continues to want mass immigration, and 3 million 360,000 people said no to that. We, Christian Democrats, are perfectly natural to stand up for the will of these people, it is perfectly natural to stand up for the protection of this country, it is perfectly natural to stand for solidarity. But it is also perfectly natural that the Christian Democratic People's Party will support the amendment of the Fundamental Law. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-10-11-14	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, On behalf of the Government, Mr Csaba Dömötör, State Secretary, responds. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2016-10-11-15	Honourable Congressman, Allow me to think a little further about what you said, and let me talk about the budgetary aspect of immigration. The budgetary burden on migration and on the deployment plans in Brussels is not rightly mentioned. The supply of an immigrant is already costing Hungary 130 thousand forints each, which, as we know, is higher than the minimum wage. But it's not the only heavy cost. If it is up to Brussels, we should reach deep into our pockets even if we do not want to participate in the resettlement programme. In this case, if we did not participate, the European Commission envisaged a fine of HUF 78 million. This is the amount of money a Hungarian man works for for 39 years. I am only bringing this up because opposition parties are clearly unwilling to assess the economic burden of resettlement, and they do not say that once they support immigration policy in Brussels, where would they have the funds to do so? It wasn't always like that, by the way. In the past, detailed calculations were made, if not on immigration, but on dual citizenship. When Hungary was able to vote on dual citizenship in 2004, a detailed calculation was published by the Socialists in a publication claiming that giving a dual citizenship would cost all Hungarians 170 thousand forints. Since then, we have dual citizenship, and we know very well that this statement has proved to be a total lie. You know this, too, Mrs Bangóné, who was one of the posters of this anti-Hungarian campaign. Yesterday, we saw that the MSZP is happy to parade and make a circus here at the National Assembly. If we can have a word of advice, instead, invest energy in studying the amendment of the basic law tabled on the basis of a referendum. This is based on a 98 percent majority. I am bringing this up again because on the last day of August 31, the president of the MSZP said that the MSZP does not support the compulsory resettlement quota, and if the government's bill to Parliament contains this, then the socialists are ready to support it. Now would be the opportunity for the socialists to keep to this one promise at least. I would like to inform the opposition on the left, the only member of the opposition that appeared here. [[Anita Herring: There are five of us.]] I would like to say that I would now be able to make amends to the political shambles presented in the pre-vote period. If you care about the outcome of the referendum and the opinion of the Hungarian voters, you will not make it a question of pride and vote in favour of the constitutional amendment, because 3.3 million people's opinions cannot be ignored. We're asking you to take the side of the national unit. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-10-11-16	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. * Jobbik: From a cute campaign to a miserable one - or what is the real face of Jobbik? Mr Pócs, Member of the Fidesz Group, spoke before the agenda. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2016-10-11-17	Thank you very much. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, On 2 October, we participated in the Jászság referendum not only on compulsory resettlement, but also in two interim elections: Jásszentandrás and Jászkisére. Jobbik played a nasty role in both settlements. His candidates for mayor and congressman were ordered by the public to the end of the line. Although Jobbik announced that Jászcér was their citadel, Fidesz mayor's candidate got twice as many votes as yours. Even though they left, even if they tried everything, the money didn't matter. As they announced, each poster will be accompanied by four. He didn't expect the money, he had enough paint in the face of every opposition politician. Dear fellow Members, In this campaign, Gábor Vona made twice in the city, and the end: they failed badly. Ladies and gentlemen, I did not think it was important to bring this to the House, but I hold in my hands the writing of Lóránt Budai, the leader of the Jászság. [[There are constant interruptions from Jobbik's ranks.]] She is a political colleague of Mrs Loránt Hegedűs. Lóránt Budai campaigned hand in hand with Gábor Vona. As is customary in your party recently, after gym push-ups and eyebrows, they also visited the gypsy line. [[9.40]] They tried everything, they did everything, and it ended in defeat. It ended in defeat, because Jobbik, like in Parliament, thinks that the more he screams, the more he is right. That's not how the population judged it. [[Crying out of Jobbik's ranks. The president's ringing the bell.]] Ladies and gentlemen, The person mentioned in Buda continued to campaign on Facebook. Last week's entry, which was intended for the dissidents, ended with the fact that they were miserable. You didn't get to congratulate the winner on apologizing for tearing down the Fidesz candidate's Molino, not so mysterious hands. It didn't matter to them that one of the mayor's candidates had just mourned, raped in the memory of the deceased, and that no other candidate had been spared. The mayor of the previous period was accused of stealing, and the Jászsér candidates were accused of committing serious crimes, of course, unfoundedly. Wretched - that's what you've come up with instead of apologizing or simply listening. Dear House, The question is, which one is the real face of Jobbik now. With which Guardists intimidated the inhabitants of small settlements [[Defiance in Jobbik's ranks.]] Or the one who calls himself the People's Party, or the one who caress puppies yesterday, today's left, tomorrow's migrants? Ladies and gentlemen, In the Hungarian Parliament Jobbik is undoubtedly the only party inviting us to the Hungarian Competition. Inexplicably, they consider themselves more original than other Hungarians, who do not adhere to their cultural dictatorship, they simply label it as "miserables." This is said by those who do not deserve respect, either in their civilian life or in their life or in their political presence. Says people who usually have lousy taste. [[Dr. Gábor Staudt: At least I have a high school diploma! Dr. Gábor Staudt sits in the ranks of the Jobbik faction in a seat reserved for MEPs.]] Dear Jobbik faction, You can't be respected, because that's what they say once, where the wind blows, you go. You've been Islamic friends, radicals, Christians, skinheads, fascists, you're about to be fine with us. [[István Tukacs: Is this Hungary's problem?]] Dear fellow Members, we cannot do this! Dear fellow Members, we cannot do this! Not because we're the same as ourselves. [[István Tukacs: Now, see, John, this is true, you are identical!]] And you're in the thousand colors of the rainbow. You have nothing to say to Hungary, unless it is just that those who vote for another party are miserable. It's outrageous what happened. Therefore, I call on the party president of Jobbik to distance himself from the statement of Lóránt Budai, to apologize to the people of Jászság, the vast majority for disparaging them; to distance themselves from that rudely-sounded, naked campaign [[The interrogation of Balázs Ander. The president's ringing the bell. István Tukacs: It's just terrible!]] which his party's activists conducted in these settlements. How can you tolerate coworkers who so obviously despise voters with democratic rights? Would this be the famous People's Party for President Vona? [[István Tukacs: This video will be shown, János!]] If this ignominious misery does not have labour law consequences, I think we can say that the President of Jobbik, Gábor Vona, is not the country, but he is not fit to lead Jobbik either. And it doesn't matter that he despises voters, or because he is despised within his own party. Mr President, thank you for the floor. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties. Crying out of Jobbik's ranks: It's the masterpiece of your life!]]
u2016-10-11-18	Thank you very much. Fellow Members! May I have your attention, fellow Members? On behalf of the Government, Parliamentary Secretary Pál Völner responds. Congressman Staudt! Either you sit in your seat, or you're in here, or you're not wandering left and right like the Dutchman, and especially don't touch your head because it looks bad on you. [[Defiance. Dr. Gábor Staudt: I got to my head with all this crap!]] Mr. Secretary, Mr. Pál Völner.
u2016-10-11-19	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Honourable Congressman, I think you've set a standard for Jobbik here in relation to events that you won't be able to jump on, because if we study Jobbik's activities and behaviour in recent years, we can see that regardless of whether there is a cute campaign or other wording, Jobbik's essence doesn't change. [[Dr. Csaba Gyüre: What's the point?]] We remember when Gábor Vona wanted to call the Iranian Guard in 2008 to verify the purity of the elections; we remember his well-known sentence that Islam is the last hope of humanity, which Jobbik does not want to remember today, precisely in the context of the migration crisis that has arisen. If you think that Gábor Vona appeared in the Parliament in 2010 in a Hungarian Guard vest, which is also not compatible with the series of cute campaigns, you can see that they have a false attitude: either today or when they did so. [[Dr. István Apáti: Says the youth department of SZDSZ. Amazing!]] If we think about whether they were still agitating, or if the then vice president of the party burned the flag of the Union, then we can see again that either they have turned their backs on their old self, or they are just disguising themselves, also in the spirit of the cute campaign. We remember the Member of Parliament who threatened journalists on the Hungarian Isle with a circled whip for which he was convicted; I do not want to recall the details. We haven't heard that the Jobbik have ever distanced themselves from these acts. Gábor Vona also stated that if he was on the wheel, he would destroy two commercial TV stations and sprinkle them with salt. They would also sound a little strange today from the party president's mouth if he spoke those words in Parliament. Let us also remember that when the party's current vice president at Bankcenter wanted to take over the headquarters, as did Television at the time, which also became a police matter. We have not heard Jobbik appear in this case either, where he would have asked for order or compliance with the law, and even, as Vice President, he embraced this member and the head of the Sixty-four County. If we analyze their activities in Parliament, there are quite a few of us in this room who remember that when the land law was passed, when practically passed through parliamentary rules, we were bell-bellied. [[Dr. István Apáti: There is no other way to speak to you! The president's ringing the bell.]] I don't want to use an adjective, how they wanted to humiliate the authority of this House. [[Lajos Kepli: We are proud of it!]] At the same time, we can watch... They're proud, well, it's been said now, so they're not separated from themselves at that time. Then decide if they're cute or if they're basically turned over. Or perhaps Jobbik is the only party that has forced Csanád Szeged out of his ranks in view of his origin. [[Defiance from Jobbik's ranks.]] which is also unacceptable in the history of a democratic party. [[Dr. Gábor Staudt: That's not true! You're lying, Paul! You're lying!]] Why don't you just squeeze Béla Kovács out the same way, and I'll ask you, who has been involved in an EU scandal because of corruption and espionage. To this day, we have not heard a statement from you where you would have said that you would not agree with your fellow party, or that you would have criticized the material matters that he was carrying. Yesterday, the daily theme, Jobbik's eternal problem, was the incitement to the community in Parliament. We know why: because we need to limit these tendencies, these acts, this violence that you would like to represent on these issues. Fortunately, the instruments of criminal law do not allow this and continue to limit them. And then there's another thought. Gábor Vona said that he had taken the soul of the party; I would rather say that he had sold it. I'd like to refer to the fact that you had a maze tattooed on your shoulder instead of a Guard vest today. I think the country needs to be careful not to bring him into this maze. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-10-11-20	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Dear fellow Members, This brings us to the end of the speeches before the agenda. [[Dr. István Apáti: It's about time! Dr. Gábor Staudt: Can such a speech be rejected?]] Next up is the 2003 XCII on the system of taxation. a joint debate on the proposal to amend law in an exceptional procedure. The government referral is T/12450. The Parliament's IT network is available to all of us. The Legislative Committee presented its summary report, which is T/12450/2. can be identified. [[9.50]] Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr András Tállai, State Secretary of the Ministry of National Economy, the author of the bill, for the first time in a 15-minute time frame. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2016-10-11-21	Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear Members, Ladies and Congressmen, The constantly renewable system of tax incentives is of paramount importance for citizens, businesses in Hungary and organisations that may be supported through the tax system, and contribute significantly to the functioning of Hungary's competitiveness. In view of this, Hungary is committed to ensuring the possibility of tax incentives within the legal framework provided, and through tax rules it gives taxpayers the opportunity to make use of these benefits according to their decision and to reduce their tax liability. It is important to note that in order to benefit from the tax relief, a taxpayer wishing to benefit from it must fulfil a number of conditions. The rules on tax incentives cover these conditions in detail, such as the extent of the discounts and the duration of the use, the possible repayment obligation. The relevant provisions are mainly contained in material legislation, which adapts to the necessary extent to EU standards and expectations. However, certain procedural provisions should also be taken into account in the application of tax incentives, which settle the deadlines to be met and lay down general requirements at the level of principle. It is important to point out that tax laws lay down requirements not only for taxpayers but also for the tax authorities to be taken into account in each tax procedure. A significant part of these requirements are for the protection of taxpayers. Such a requirement is, for example, the requirement of the Tax Code, which is currently in force, to ensure the protection of data in a very wide range of areas. Indeed, all facts, data, circumstances, decisions, orders, certificates or other documents concerning taxation are tax secrets. Ladies and gentlemen, The aim of the proposal before you is to renew this decade-long rule with a positive intention and to allow data on certain tax incentives and subsidies through the tax system to be made available. In the light of the above, the draft proposes to add a provision to the tax secret concept of the Tax Code, which specifies which of the tax reliefs and subsidies data are considered to fall within the definition of the tax secret in particular. The proposal would not bring about a significant change, but would only preserve the level of protection already provided by the Tax Code. In particular, it is proposed to be considered as a tax secret, for example, the name of the taxpayer providing the aid, the amount of tax relief, the amount of credit received by the taxpayer, the name of the organisation supported by the taxpayer and the amount of aid received by the taxpayer. These data will continue to be protected as they are basically a private and business sector, and, as such, they will continue to benefit from stricter protection from your taxation. In addition to the concept of tax secrecy, the bill also provides for which data are not tax secrets in relation to the aid granted by taxpayers. The proposal states that it does not constitute a tax secret for the tax relief, credit, aggregate rate of aid received by the taxpayer providing the aid in the tax year and the aggregate rate of tax or tax advance offered by the taxpayer in the tax year for the benefit of the taxpayer in the tax year. The proposal therefore allows for the recognition of cumulative data on tax incentives and grants, given that these data are not considered to be commercial or private data. This also means that the proposal ensures that these data are available. The reason for the amendment is that tax incentives are also economically important and therefore the conditions for ensuring that at least some of these data are available should be created. The proposal also states which data are not tax secrets for companies managing public assets, such as the aggregate rate of the aid in the tax year and the aggregate rate of the benefit used. On this basis, you will certainly agree with me that the amendment under the proposal is of particular importance, since the strict conditions under material legislation and the availability of some of the data can contribute to the transparent operation of tax incentives and the benefits on which they are based. I therefore ask you to support and accept the bill. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the Fidesz ranks.]]
u2016-10-11-22	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, The position of the Legislative Committee and the opinion of the minority will now be presented. I give the floor to Lajos Szűcs, rapporteur of the Legislative Committee, within an eight-minute time frame. Here you go, Congressman.
u2016-10-11-23	Your Honour, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, Dear House, Yesterday, the Legislative Committee presented a summary report on the amendment. The debate was conducted by the Legislative Committee and proposed to support it at 25:9. 'Cause I didn't. [[Dr. László György Lukács: You should also tell us about your invertebrates.]] The amendment was tabled to the House only by a summary proposal. And I will give our opinion on the law to this House in a normal speech. Thank you, Mr. President. [[Applause from the Fidesz ranks.]]
u2016-10-11-24	Thank you very much, Congressman. The minority opinion is presented by Mr László Varga in a 7-minute time frame. Here you go, Congressman.
u2016-10-11-25	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, My Fidesz fellow Member, who expressed the majority opinion, was quite short-talented, but there was a deeper debate at the committee meeting, and then the committee meeting lasted for an hour and a half. In fact, the opposition representatives - whether they are better-ranking or even MSZPs - have expressed that they do not understand the need for this proposal. In the first place, it is not possible to understand the exceptional procedure as to why this proposal is effectively being forced through Parliament in a day, and on the other hand, it is inexplicable in itself what justify the social process, the changed circumstance or the noble social goal to be achieved, which justifies the fact that you are hiding the public data so far from here. The debate also raised - let us give an example of a club - the fact that, for example, the team of Felcsút, the academy there received so much tao support, in total more in the first year of the visual team support system than the four non-football visual team sport and the MOB combined. In total, the road sport has received 20 billion in recent years. So, obviously, there is a distorted system that gets criticism and clearly sees that it is a controlled system. In fact, the assumption is that these amounts, these Tao discount options, are not directed to certain locations willingly, but are given excellent tips. There is nothing else that would explain why I would like to support 1,800 enthusiastic settlements or their sports club in this way. This issue has obviously been a question of public life over the past five years, and it has triggered debates, fact-finding and investigative work on the part of journalists, and it is unpleasant for you, and as usual, you do not want to make a system normal, but, by the way, you want to encrypt the hundreds of billions of forints that the state is letting out of your hands in this way. Public money of the tao, there was an excellent debate on this too. We've heard some pretty circumstantial arguments from the pro-government representatives. From now on, the Tao will lose its common sense of public money from this proposal. He said almost without exception that all of them are opposition representatives, and I also say that we will fight to make sure that this does not happen. With all the power of the public, we will present the distorted, false picture you paint in this context in the public view that, in fact, this proposal strengthens transparency in this sense. There is no reason for this proposal, it is a waste of public funds, and it actually raises the question of whether the Taós funds are being used at all in line with the objective of each sport organisation. [[10.00]] There was also talk of competition neutrality in opposition representatives' speeches. About competition neutrality, that is what is most not believed today in part of Hungarian sport, the visual team sport, especially Hungarian football, is not believed. In a situation where, with a telephone, such connections, one can achieve significantly more resources than the other, the viewers turn away from sports after a while, do not go to a match, they are not interested in a theatre behind which performances can be questioned, and there are beneficiary teams, there are people who can work under different conditions, under better conditions. So this story doesn't match that. Although, at the time of the establishment of the discount system, I was naive to believe that this could be something, as Hungary has already introduced a corporate tax discount system during the MSZP government - such as the system introduced in terms of theatre and cinema, which I believe has helped a lot in Hungarian cultural life - but the distorted system that you operate is nothing more than shoveling public funds out of the budget. I mean, if the state hadn't given up on these tao revenues, they could also finance public affairs, whether they could be spent on health care, education or anything. So this is a final step in a crappy system that you have built in the last five years; a system that is also about the elimination of public funds and, by the way, its positive effects on sport can be questioned, because beyond the fact that this is helping some associations of replacements, it is, in addition, very harshly involved in real competition in the life of Hungarian sports. We will do everything in our power not to introduce this proposal, so that this is not accepted by this House, but seeing the debate of the Legislative Committee, I have my doubts. Thank you, Mr. President.
u2016-10-11-26	Thank you very much, Congressman. Ladies and gentlemen, It is now time for the speeches by its representatives. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the factions have a timeframe of 30 to 30 minutes and the independent Members have a total of 8 minutes. During the first round of speeches, the keynote speeches will take place within a 15-15-minute time frame, followed by the individual speeches and two-minute speeches, as usual. The lead speaker of the Fidesz Group is Mr Lajos Szűcs, Member of the Parliament. I give you the floor. Here you go, notary.
u2016-10-11-27	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Dear House, Before I present to you the content of the bill, allow us to talk a little bit about the people and the people that this proposal is about. What is it, then? The government, as you know, allowed businesses in the previous cycle to spend up to 75% of their profits on sports purposes. The money is made by businesses, they decide where to give the money. Under the Tao Law, taxpayers can choose between two systems: visual team sports - football, handball, basketball, water polo and hockey - as well as performing art organizations to support film creation. In one system, the taxpayer directly grants aid to the recipient and in return may benefit from a corporate tax exemption, the other being the system of tax returns. These subsidies and offers are not directly part of the public finances, the State does not perform a redistributive function, the right of taxpayers to dispose of them must be exercised freely. This is a clear and transparent process, since all sports organisations, sports schools and re-educational foundations in the given sport sector can benefit from offers from companies, the approval of which is made by the professional associations of sports. So this is about business money and not public money. According to data at the beginning of the year, more than 300 new Hungarian sports properties have been built since the introduction of the corporate tax discount scheme in 2011 and nearly 500 have been renewed. In the five visual team sports in the Tao - football, handball, basketball, water polo and hockey - the number of certified competitors has increased from 260 thousand to 350 thousand in the last four years, and the growth is particularly significant in the field of replacement athletes. Nor is it a secret to you that the current aid scheme is in place until 30 July 2017, and that the Tao 2nd is already being prepared and that the national sport strategy is renewed. The proposal before us reinforces the fact that it is a tax secret to tax the tax relief or credit granted to the central sub-scheme of public finances. In addition, you will continue to be taxed at the name of the taxpayer who offers it, as well as at the rate of the tax credit it receives and the aid it grants, taxes or tax advances it offers. In addition to the above, the name of the beneficiary, the aid received by the beneficiary and the amount of the tax or tax advance offered for the benefit of the beneficiary are still taxed. Therefore, there is nothing new in this proposal to qualify as a tax secret. These data are currently protected for tax purposes. The proposal does not constitute - once again, it does not constitute a tax secret - the tax relief, the aggregate rate of credit used in the tax year by the taxpayer offering the aid, the aggregate rate of aid received by the taxpayer in the tax year and the aggregate rate of tax or tax advance offered by the taxpayer in the tax year for the benefit of the recipient. I must stress that, although in the context of the debate, the possibility of losing access to data on sports subsidies may be affected in the first place, the rule is general, not only for the tax relief of sport aid, but also for any tax relief, and has so far been covered by the protection provided by your tax cover. In view of this, the purpose of the amendment is therefore to continue to protect the private sector of individuals or entrepreneurs providing support, for example in the form of direct benefits or offers. Once again, these businesses and individuals undertake to vote for certain goals in the spirit of social responsibility and to stand up financially. They will stand by the local handball team or by a performing art organization that is dear to them, or by a film project. However, they do not undertake to target political attacks, where appropriate, as a result of this decision. So when we talk about the so-called private sector of taxpayers, we are talking about leaving these businesses, individuals, the freedom to make decisions, so that, if necessary, someone is not afraid of the intention of supporting them in public opinion. Smallly, this could be compared to when individuals have 1 percent of their taxes. It is also the individual's own sovereign decision which organization or church he intends to support. And the proposal before you also protects the right of taxpayers offering 1 percent to the private sector. Let me add to the above that, in the context of corporate tax subsidies, the Government and Parliament have taken full account of and adopted the recommendations of the European Union in the legislation. Accordingly, the eligible framework for the sport development elements on which the aid is based is published in advance by the associations, the so-called mandatory benchmark scheme. In addition, both the supported organisations and the specialised associations shall keep up-to-date records of the value of approved aid schemes and aid certificates issued and of the internal content of the programmes. Finally, the government informs Brussels annually of the results of the aid scheme. In addition, the sports corporate tax reduction has been able to establish a new basis for the professional and supply of the five visual team sports. Without a unique support system in Europe, Hungarian competition could not have escaped from the pit in which it had previously been due, among other things, to the uncaring attitude of socialist governments. [[Zoltán Grimlock: I needed this! Did you take a va-la-mite? The president's ringing the bell.]] [[10.10]] Dear House, I therefore believe that this proposal provides for a right, a right to the protection of the private sector of taxpayers, which is a condition for decisions by supporting businesses and individuals and taxpayers in general which benefit from tax relief, free of negative external factors and influence. Please try to look at the regulatory objective in this way and support the proposal in this regard. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A rare applause in the ranks of Fidesz.]]
u2016-10-11-28	Thank you very much, Mr. Notary. The lead speaker of the MSZP Group is Mr Sándor Burány. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2016-10-11-29	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Dear House, Dear fellow Members, In the front, let me have a personal request. I don't know what kind of vitamin my colleague Lajos Szűcs is taking, but I'll have some too. It can be seen that this vitamin has a huge effect on life - style, and even enables its user to travel to a parallel reality at times, hopefully without any particular danger, and can be returned from there. At times, I would like to go a minute or two into a parallel reality, so I ask with respect that the vitamin you are taking, the recipe or the manufacturer you are taking, we need it from time to time. But let's go back to this reality that we live in here on the planet Earth in Hungary, and let's talk about this bill, which is on the table here in this House. Every time the government or Fidesz initiates an exceptional procedure, the point of which is that in practically 24 hours, it will beat a bill at the National Assembly, then there are always two questions. The first question is whether there has been a disaster in the world, whether there has been any unexpected development in the world, whether if the Hungarian Parliament does not act within 24 hours, the world will collapse. Because there may be situations, floods, disasters, mister's pardons, war, when some regulation that we had not thought of before has to be accepted in the course of 24 hours on national grounds. The first thing we tried to answer at the committee meeting - but in vain, because we did not get an answer - is what disaster has happened in the world of sport support, that so urgently, in less than 24 hours, a proposal that no one had ever known before outside its founders will be passed by law in this House. No such event could be recalled by our pro-government fellow Members, nothing to justify this haste. So we're thinking about the other option. The other option, when a bill passes through Parliament so quickly, is that the petitioners are ashamed, and I would like to get away with this whole shame as quickly as possible, and get it over with as quickly as possible. Because, ladies and gentlemen, this bill is truly shameful. It is not about promoting sport, it is about how public funds otherwise used in the public interest lose their public money and become secret in the future. It is not about whether the method of sport support with tax incentives, whether it is proportionate or not, whether it has fulfilled the expectations attached to it or not; let us say, it could have fulfilled the hopes attached to it if it had been truly performance-oriented, otherwise not very viable under market conditions, but if it had been important for the country, most money would have gone to support Olympic sports in recent years. But, as we know, this was not the case, but rather a profit-oriented, business-oriented sport, namely, a significant proportion of the money was invested in football, and not the most successful in this, although, let's say, international successes are not very much mentioned here, but, let's say, at least in the national national championships, most money was spent on associations, but on the favourite team of pro-government politicians and, above all, the Prime Minister. So we could talk about whether this system is healthy as it is, but that is not what the bill is about. That is why I do not want to open the debate on whether this form of sport support has fulfilled the expectations attached to it. This bill is nothing more than to keep the funds transferred to associations as tax incentives secret in the future. That's pretty amazing. First of all, it should be stated that money that can be spent for specific purposes, not in the budget, is public money in terms of its economic content, because it is a way of using the budget. It would be much more transparent, by the way, if this were to be included in the budget, and we were to discuss in Parliament whether we should really turn the biggest part of this into Sloppy - this would also be an interesting debate - but no, the government had invented a system that the government had previously suggested to entrust to farmers, to support their favourite club, sports club, and so on and so forth. I'm telling you again, this could have been the hope we had. But why should this be classified data? Why should this be classified? Would that be such a big problem? I also asked for the vitamin because my pro-government colleague, Mr Szűcs, said that some people do not want to find themselves in the crossfire of political attacks because they support a handball team. Well, I'm trying to read the papers, but to be honest, I can't remember one political attack of this kind in the last few years that a nice, rural small town's women's handball team was supported by a company, and there would have been a political scandal. Let me know if you've read this in the last few years; I don't remember a single case like this. However, I have read a number of articles that have revealed the disproportionateness of these subsidies and raised the question of whether the municipality in Hungary, whose sport needs such support, really is the Puskás Academy which, to this extent, should be supported to such a disproportionate extent compared to other football classes. And indeed, monitoring the use of public money is not only a legitimate claim because we want to know who is looking for the Prime Minister's favor, but also a legitimate need to see if corruption may lie behind it. I brought this up because the idea that barter, so to speak, did not have to pay for this helicopter tour, had already come up in connection with the helicoptering practices of Antal Rogán, which was bartered between two companies, the wife and another company. Another question is that accountants do not know very well about such accounting techniques, how to book barter in the company's various accounts, but if they already use this term, "Barter," let me suggest the possibility that there may be a greater degree of barter in Hungary, and it is in the best interest of the public to know whether a company that otherwise supports a relatively unsuccessful, internationally unlisted football academy in Hungary will receive even more of this money in the form of any state aid in the near future or in the distant future. These are legitimate relationships. [[10.20]] Because when it comes to bartering, some companies can split bigger tenders that should be open to everyone, but somehow only certain companies win the right amounts, and only because they supported the Prime Minister's favourite club in return, it is indeed a type of bartering that raises the possibility of corruption, and that is a public matter. That is why we need to monitor the use of these funds, where they are directed, so that we can know about these companies, that, by the way, if they are already doing the Prime Minister of Hungary such a great deal of favor, they will receive this favor back in the form of any other business success, and if so, how many times. It's a self-evident elemental interest. A few years ago, it wasn't that much of a shame. Back in the day, when Lajos Simicska and Viktor Orbán were still close, we quietly smiled at the advertisements of the Public Machine at certain football matches, but it was completely open-minded. Now it looks like this thing has become a disgrace. Otherwise, in a sense, we might as well be pleased with this development. If really fear of political support It would justify this bill, so let me say that if it is embarrassing to support the Prime Minister's favourite club in Hungary today, then we should be happy about it, because it is really embarrassing. It's really embarrassing. If a significant part of the CEOs start to realize this, regardless of whether this solution to the bill is shameful, it is in itself a positive development of domestic public life, because it is really embarrassing. Let's assume that there is no barter behind it, but simply that he is seeking the pleasure of his grounder in Hungary today. The prime ministers must be careful who between friends and the environment really support his activities in the public interest and who are simply minions. Now it seems that one of the reasons behind the submission of the bill is that some of the minions are now ashamed that he is a minion, and it costs him a lot of money. It's true that he wants to keep giving the money where it belongs, where he's used to it, but he's already in restel, and he doesn't want to do it in public. This part might even be a pleasure. But again, that's still no reason to encrypt this process. The other part is indeed a public interest. It is indeed right for a journalist, a simple citizen, anyone in this country to know that companies that are involved in large amounts of support for otherwise unsuccessful clubs will receive this back many times in the form of state orders and state subsidies. It's in the public interest. Dear House, In yesterday's Commission debate, there were various arguments on why this should remain public - obviously opposition representatives, including us - and why it should be encrypted. There was also an argument that, for example, tried to appeal to the analogy of personal income tax, and he said that, just as it is secret when a person offers 1 percent of his personal income tax to the church, it is logical in this sense that similar sports support should be secret. It is just that this support for sport is not in the same way as we drew attention to it in the Commission debate yesterday. Because as long as it is justified for individuals who support different churches to keep it a secret - I'll tell you why - it is not justified at all in the case of sports support. Let's look at the privates first. Today there is freedom of religion in Hungary, and it is absolutely right that it is. Freedom of religion, however, means at least two things. Not only does it mean that everyone is free to practice their own religion, or can be religiously neutral or indifferent at their own discretion, but it also means that no one else can be forced to confess their own faith, because it is a sensitive personal data that can only be disclosed by the practicing person on his own choice, and no one else can force him to do so. This is absolutely appropriate - but this is not true of sports support at all. Because let's face it, ladies and gentlemen, cheering for the Slippery is not a religion - today. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2016-10-11-30	Thank you very much, Congressman. The lead speaker of the Jobbik Group is Mr Dániel Z. Carpathian. I give you the floor, Congressman.
u2016-10-11-31	Mr President, Dear House, Fidesz-KDNP is preparing for another national carpet bombing. They told us things about the first part of the film Matrix, when it was as if my fellow Member had chosen the blue pill, not the red one. The thing is, you're in a world of appearances where I have to give you my deep appreciation for being able to say this with a face and a serious face. I can't believe they didn't laugh at themselves, they didn't cry at all. With all seriousness, they could say that what you are about to do is fair and economic interest. What are they up to? There are two fundamental pillars, so they are not three strikes, but two great strikes against the national economy. One of them says that you will have a tax, at the speed of lightning, on how much tax relief has been granted, and who has saved the tax by investing in certain types of visual sports or cultural activities. That's one of them. The other - which is hardcore - is that besides encrypting tax incentives, companies that are typically large companies that have concluded special agreements with the tax office are given special benefits. We are talking here about companies above the tax base of 500 million, where, compared to 19 percent corporate tax, NAV can settle for less. These agreements, of course, are still classified. So who are the beneficiaries of the government? On the one hand, it is evidently those who, through the Tao or other channels, are cheering off some money to various good friends, acquaintances. The other beneficiary group may come from a multi-company network or from large companies where secret agreements have been concluded or concluded over a certain tax base with totally vague interests. This not only works against transparency, transparency, all other fashionable terms, but it would also be embarrassing in a banana republic. Once again, I give you my compliments, because you guys have been able to do this with a face. We goodies couldn't have done that. The thing is, we are clearly not taking sides against sport. As a self-employed Kispest fan, I fully support all intelligent investments, I add, mass sports rather than fully self-serving ones, which are really unknown - at least internationally - and are spent on unsuccessful academies. But what we have to say is that, on the basis of this proposal, we would not be able to find out in life how much people have sacrificed to build stadiums and in exceptional negotiations, so they are trying to beat this madness in Parliament for a great 24 hours. So there's a question of where they're rushing to. Did you get a data request? Do you have to hide something quickly with encryption? Secretary of State, where are you going? What's the rush? What's the sudden interest in the national economy that you've just been put here for? It must be very unpleasant, as, once again, you must be serious enough to perform what is unsatisfying and unreasonable. It is even possible to argue about the concept of your fairy tale, which is known here in large quotes, after today's debate in Parliament, as being the limit where this is worth drawing on. Jobbik obviously does not want to criticize the 1+1-percent system, and does not want to have individuals' right to keep the secret of the direction, where and in what way these forms of donations are transmitted, but we can only notice several categories of leaps here when we are talking about the Tao system and at all about the totally vague public money channel that you have been doing and are doing recently. But once again, I am much more disturbed than the Tao by the saving or the possibility of saving part of the 19 percent corporate tax on companies above the 500 million tax base and the system of secret agreements in this regard. So we would be very interested to know why, how, and how the government has given its head to choose the method typical of these banana public companies, and at all, to squash the entire national economy into this dead end. [[10.30]] After all, by the time you bring in the Tao 2 you must have no illusions, the abuse of system 1 and maladministration are still spilling through the national economy. And we also need to tell you what you're doing right now, and what you're about to do is also for this tax year. So your urgency, regardless of what kind of request for information might have caused this or what kind of secrecy you have in mind, already applies to this tax year, because from now on, the company will not be obliged to report how much you will set aside from your taxes for a particular purpose, such as the promotion of visual sports. We also have to say that we are going to have another debate here on whether these discounts will lose their public money character, but we have to say, in the case of the Hungarian National Bank, this debate has already taken place, up to the point that cheerleading groups have chanted loudly that they have lost their public money character. We must say, in the Jobbik's view, that there is no way in which any kind of public money would lose its character, so in this case we must say so. These tax incentives would be very lacking in the form of tax forints from the budget, and we must also say that we will not leave this system at that level, we are trying in every respect to prevent this madness from going through. And once again, I would like to commend both the Secretary of State and the Fidesz Member, so I would like to present this with a completely neutral poker face, which is quite a huge achievement, and I could also suggest a stand-up career, knowing this. So, if this shameful shame is not withdrawn, then, in addition to my appreciation, they must count on contempt for voters and for the future. Thank you for your attention. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2016-10-11-32	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, The lead speaker for the LMP Group is Mrs Bernadett Szél. Here you go, Congresswoman.
u2016-10-11-33	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I've been feeling like I've been watching a movie called Sliders. Technically, the governing parties are now permanently stuck in a bubble from which they have no idea what is going on in Hungarian society. This law, on the other hand, is really harsh, if I hear it one more time, and I've been trying to end up with the fact that it's a taxpayer's private sector, so that's a word we should forget, so that doesn't hold up with this law. This law goes against an SAO request and a court case that I won, so from now on, it's safe to call this law lex wind, because there's a precedent that scares the government parties, and they're trying to move this through in 24 hours. What's this about? What happened here was that I sued the Ministry of National Economy because it gave various subsidies to strategic partners by refusing to report it. They simply did not say what kind of development, indirect and direct tax incentives these companies received, and they did so on the basis of your tax confidentiality. I sued and won. The fact is that after a year and a half of a row, the decision was made in May this year, in which I received the truth from the judgeboard in the second degree, and they said that tax incentives are also public money in terms of their function, starting from here, they are not your tax secret, but the data disclosure. If this judgment is final, the NGM has not yet provided these data. We've had enough begging, now we're really moving on to action, we're gonna have a criminal report and we're gonna do it. The LMP plays this against the NGM. You can't do this in a rule of law, that a Member of Parliament wins a lawsuit, wins a second-degree lawsuit, and then they simply refuse to give you the data you requested for six months. This is also important, because you keep saying, here again this morning, Minister Szijjártó, in relation to CETA, how well strategic agreements work and how well things work with the multinationals in Hungary, well, we would like to see the balance sheet pan, how much tax forints it costs to get things going well, because these companies receive subsidies that a small and medium-sized enterprise can only dream of. A small and medium-sized enterprise is pleased to receive HUF 1-3 million after a job, whereas in Hungary there are now multinationals who received HUF 30 million as a subsidy after a job. From this point forward, of course, that they have created jobs, I would also be able to create such subsidies from taxpayers' money, but it is the peak of brazenness if a Member asks how much support they have received overall, they refuse to say how much the strategic partner has received. This is not a tax because these stories come from taxpayers' money, because if they weren't given to the multinationals, they could get education or health care or other goals that everyone needs. So don't try to do this, be kind, hide it just because you want to justify your own economic policy, but tell me the truth. And, President Tállai, please tell your colleagues in the government that the implementation of the NGM will start and we will press criminal charges because we will not tolerate this behaviour. You may not like democracy, but here it is, so from here on out, you have to obey the court, it's a basic requirement. The thing is, it's a perverse thing that's happening here in this debate. So what happened was that there was a court ruling, and the government wanted to prevent such a situation from continuing, so that a Member or anyone else could find out, for example, what kind of state subsidies were granted to entrepreneurs or other foreign investors in the form of tax incentives supporting the Foci Academy in Felcsút, and to make this public, they wanted to prevent it, so they would say that this is your tax. From here on out, I think it's interesting that if I did the same lawsuit now, I wouldn't be able to win, because with this law, they practically prevented what they couldn't prevent a year ago, or a year and a half earlier, and then I could still win. So in this respect, it's really the top of everything that they're playing the same thing about Paks, that I'd just won, and at that moment, they said there's a secret law and everything's secret for 30 years. So this is not the first time you've played this, and we've had enough of this, honourable government parties. You're gonna have to go public with beneficiaries of sports or movie tao discounts, and you don't want to do that. Whose interests are they for, honourable pro-government? - because it's not for the taxpayers, that's for sure. Tell me whose interests they govern, because now they are completely ignoring the Hungarian citizens, that's for sure. I would add that we are talking about serious money here. Let's see here, though, that you predicted 100 billion revenue from the Tao only by 2017. Who, for what and for how much? - that's the question. You don't want to answer these questions. Since 2011, about 300 billion have already gone to Tao, so from here on out, we are talking about serious hundreds of billions, and if I add development tax incentives to strategic partners, we are talking about HUF 500 billion. Now, I would like to add an example to this, if the daycare workers are watching this broadcast, I would like to say that their salary increase, which they are asking for, would be worth HUF 3-4 billion. If we are talking about the public sector, everything could be settled from HUF 300 billion. Out of 1440 billion forints, anyone who has protested on the street in the last few years or who has been silently disturbed and can't make a living from his wages can be solved. Compared to this, virtually 500 billion have gone to tax incentives, to multis, there are tao money, about 300 billion, and next year another 100 billion. There are hundreds of billions flying around that can hardly be tracked, and you don't want us to be able to follow these things, and that's why they're going to, and they want it all to be encrypted. From here on out, I have two things to say. One is that the NGM can expect the criminal report to come, and this is my message to the respected government, and the other is that we will turn to the Constitutional Court and I respectfully ask for the support of my fellow opposition Members. The opposition must turn to the Constitutional Court on the matter of this law, if you vote in favour of it, and it doesn't have to wait a long time, because it is another law, and we see that the faster it passes through Fidesz, the more dirty it is, they want to push this law through the Hungarian Parliament in 24 hours. From here on out, we can't be sluggish either, we're gonna take a look at ourselves and see if this filth is going to stand up to the test of constitutionality, because I believe that there must still be justice in this country. In any case, they are opposed to a court ruling, and let me quote here, in this place between the walls of the Hungarian Parliament, the judgment of the judge-table is literally a decision of public money management, both in terms of the function of state aids and tax incentives. Tax relief is information on public funds for which there is no central interest to limit the publicity of the data of a discount. This is the judgment of the judge. So from here on out, my honourable pro-government colleagues, if you are going to press "yes" to this bill, let's say, how many people are here now, not many, not many, but I can count it on two hands, but let the others know that if they say yes, they are going against the judgment board's opinion, they are going against the verdict. There's also an SAO report. According to the SAO's 2012 report, tax incentives related to investments also constitute State aid and, moreover, asked the Government to remedy this situation. The government doesn't settle this situation, but it doesn't really deal with the SAO's report, and it has made this law aware and confident that it will go against the SAO, and it will also go against the court. I'm not a member of the TAB or how to say this, so I'm not a member of the Legislative Committee, but I read the notes on what happened there yesterday. I'm sorry Répássy Róbert isn't here because I've prepared two questions for him. If there is someone here from the governing parties who feels competent - Mr Tállai may also answer because he is obviously competent - but two questions should be answered. Mr Répássy said, Mr Répássy, that tax relief is the income of the taxpayer, which the state does not take away. I have two questions for Répássy Róbert or, if he is not, any Fidesz - I think KDNP is not here - to my fellow Member. [[10.40]] My first question is that if my fellow Member Répássy is right and the tax relief is not public money, then why is there a need for taxpayers to report in some way on the tax relief used. Is it public money or not public money? Actually, I have one more question. [[To János Pócs, who was about to leave:]] Mr. Pudgy, don't run, I'm counting on your answer. [[János Pócs takes a seat.]] Why is an overall statement needed if tax relief is not public money and not public interest data? Answer me that. That's what the Fidesz argued on yesterday's committee. Well, why don't you explain to me how you mean that, because there's a logical loophole in this story, I think. [[János Pócs is leaving.]] From now on, Répássy Róbert and Fidesz are wrong. But let's take out Andras Tallai, because he's in our midst right now. It came from other types of tax incentives, such as 1 percent offerings, that led to the need for encryption. Comrade Tallai... - I'm sorry, András Tállai... [[Deterioration in the benches of Jobbik.]] Excuse me. To the praise of András Tállai, he acknowledged that it was public money. From then on, András Tállai confronted Répássy Róbert, and he said at yesterday's committee meeting that it was public money. But from here on out, my question is... - and he also said that who gets how much tax relief, who gives how much support or offer to whom is a tax secret. That was your argument yesterday. He went on to say that in the same way that it stops with the 1 percent offerings or family tax incentives. Mr President, The fact is that 1 percent offers are so-called for free use, such as family tax incentives, so these are the benefits. Tao's not like that, tao's for captive use. There's only one thing that's different from a regular tax, so the tao is that it didn't go through the budget physically. But it wasn't the person who decided to use it, it was the state. So that's what the state ordered. From here on out, your argument doesn't stop, you can't compare apples to pears. The thing is, one is bound, the other is for free use. But that's okay, at least you admitted then that it was public money. The fact remains, however, that when it comes to public money, why it is not known. Then answer that, please. Then why do we have to get such a summary statement? Don't tell me to protect the taxpayer's private sector, because the thing is, I have a judgment in my hand and I have an extract from an SAO report that tells you that you can't produce such laws. From now on, I ask you not to be surprised that this case will end in the Constitutional Court, because I have concluded from the opposition's metacommunication that we will do this. From this point on, you will have to justify this filth in practically the highest possible forums, and you will not be able to do so in 24 hours within the closed walls of the Hungarian Parliament. We're not in Sliders, we're not on a reality show! This Hungarian Parliament, there are democratic laws here, and you cannot go against the referee, the courts, the SAO, you cannot regard the citizens who are paying taxes as nothing, who are working and earning their money so that some of you know what God knows what to do. It's not that! We want order in this country, and forget about these laws.
u2016-10-11-34	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. This brings us to the end of the keynote speeches. It is now time for the speeches by its representatives. I give the floor to Mr Dániel Z. Kárpát. Here you go.
u2016-10-11-35	Mr President, Dear House, Shamefully, neither a pro-government Member nor a secretary of state are willing to respond to the accusations, I think I can say, of the speech. I mean, there have been accusations here against you that a man would press a button, stand up and enter the battle, try to defend what he thinks can be protected, then obviously there's a good chance that it's an eligible thing. We say it's not. Mr. Secretary, you're here with us. I appreciate you standing up in the storm alone, although I have to say that you can't really leave, someone has to be here for you. But not to abuse the fact that you're pinned down here. [[Lajos Korózs: What if there's no one here?]] I would like to ask you a few questions in person, because my fellow Members are not man enough to answer these questions. My first question is whether your strategic partners, your strategic partner multi-companies, who are also benefiting from this bill, feel sustainable and fair in proportion to be supported four times as much as an average Hungarian small- and medium-sized enterprise. So do you feel sustainable and fair that, on average, you are four times as supportive of a foreign foreign interest as a small and medium-sized enterprise in Hungary, in the form of job creation support and infrastructure investment facilitation? [[Intruder from the benches of Jobbik: Shame!]] Furthermore, I would like to ask the Secretary of State's personal opinion on the matter that this bill, this package that lies before us, which companies you consider to be supported or not supported by those who have signed secret agreements with the tax office. I would like to emphasise once again, as in the leadership, that we are talking about companies who, under a separate agreement, can save a share of the 19 percent tax above the 500 million tax base laid down by law, i.e. your beneficiaries. Your strategic partners are the multi-companies that benefit from these amazing benefits at the expense of Hungarian small and medium-sized enterprises. In the last six years, you have financed so many of these multi-enterprises with job creation goals that it will generate the total wage of the employees concerned for the guaranteed employment period. Quite amazingly, they support your secret strategic partners in the face of every kind of national policy. I would like to ask your personal opinion as to who, in your opinion, is or is not benefiting from this bill. Finally, we have to say that when this accusation has been made against you about this impertinent bill, we are not speaking against the Tao system, we are not speaking against the club sports. We have to say that we would like to clear this system precisely for the sake of team sports, and in addition to mass sports, we should also build this whole transparent, transparent system, which you have been lying about for a long time, for the sake of visual sports. So, once again, as an active athlete and an active supporter, I would like to ask myself for the disgust that has been put down on the table, and for the sake of the teams, team sports, mass sports, we should also create a clear, transparent system, such as, say, one where you can track to the last forint on the World Wide Web who has benefited from this system. Once again, we do not want to violate the real private interests of 1 plus 1 per cent, so the individual can quietly leave a secret about which church, which sports club, which NGOs supported, but do not make jokes about hundreds of millions of scale. I must say, therefore, that, in the interests of both mass sports and team sports and visual sports, this system must be clarified. Only Kispest forever! Thank you for your attention. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2016-10-11-36	Thank you very much, Congressman. Mr István Tukacs spoke from the MSZP group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2016-10-11-37	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, I predict that I am a sworn enemy of any system that addresses tax forints and wants to direct me somewhere. I do not think it is good that public money can only be offered for any purpose, but this is obviously the subject of another debate. I think the introduction of the Tao system is done, whether you like it or not, exists. When I introduced it, of course, I argued that if it is a fair system, it does not favour or exclude certain sports. I did this as the president of a six-time Hungarian champion and seven-time Hungarian cup winner women's volleyball team. I'm proud of that, but they didn't get a penny of it. But it's also a sideline. I would like to put my point on what you said in the debate as one of the main arguments of my fellow Member Szűcs, that it is because of thought or real political attacks that we have to hide the identity, identity and identity of the donors. Ladies and gentlemen, On the happier ends of the world, if an entrepreneur wants to donate his money to noble ends, he doesn't want to hide it, he's proud of it. Proud! He says that I am very proud that my business is providing subsidies for this and for this purpose. He's happy with the publicity. He's happy to see that a lot of people find out that it's working for him. This grotesque argument is that because there must be political attacks on those who offer you, it's quite amazing. If this system is clean, let's assume it's now, provided it's not allowed to be clean, then this entrepreneur who gives it would be proud of it. He says that the supplies, the infrastructure is growing by me, it's growing by me, and that's good for me. Not to mention the benefits of this, as publicity is also important for an enterprise, to know that it is a successful and successful enterprise, so it is good. [[10.50]] In unclear circumstances - and these conditions are very unclear in the Tao system - you seem to think that there is even a need to hide what is happening. My fellow Member Burány said in his main speech a very important link: the interconnection of businesses from the Taó for purposes, but from certain public or EU sources would be very interesting. Therefore, not only should we be involved in the substantive debate on the proposal before us, but we must assume that you are running and operating a very lying system with this. They run a politically defined system. You give your blessing to this and, moreover, you want to bring as much confusion around this system as possible with the proposal before us. Ladies and gentlemen, Ladies and gentlemen of the Government, It can be seen that this is not eligible. You know that on the inside. If we were talking out in the hallway, they'd probably admit it, but obviously they can't. [[Lajos Korózs: They have done it!]] They did, of course, say a fellow Member here, but they can't do that here, because there are certain important interests, let's say, the Prime Minister's private obsessions. My fellow Members, it has not been possible for the private interests of political leaders to operate a system of serious millions, perhaps billions. No way! I'm trying to imagine that János Kovács, the owner of a medium-sized enterprise, is sitting in his chair, thinking, and suddenly flashes into him that God, but it would be nice to support the handball team here in the city, wow, it's cool, and no one's pushing him and even supporting him. Well, that's what's in the dream category. Ladies and gentlemen, I agree with all those who, in their keynote speech, said that if the governing parties want to push something through in one day, it's suspicious. It's suspicious because there's an ulterior motive behind it. The ulterior motive behind this is that, as far as possible, no one should know how money moves around sports. And please don't link this to the 1% system. It could also be discussed whether 1 percent is good or not. Let's assume it's now, and I think it's very right for the private donors to stay hidden, because it's their private matter who they support. On the other hand, where public money that doesn't come into the budget goes is a public matter. I hope there is no debate, honourable Members, that this is public money. It's a public money that's taken away from the budget, addressed, strapped. I therefore think, fellow Members, that our aim is not to support the proposal here, but to prevent this very insidious bill, if possible, with everything, if this is the Constitutional Court, by being different, with someone else. Thank you for the floor, Mr President, and thank you very much for your attention.
u2016-10-11-38	Thank you very much, Congressman. I ask my fellow Members if anyone else wishes to make use of the opportunity to speak. To speak again, Congresswoman Bernadett Szél has applied. Here you go.
u2016-10-11-39	I'm sorry, but I find it unacceptable that the government parties have not entered the debate, and I would like to record it here. It is totally unacceptable that, after the main speakers, the competent secretary of state said nothing, and now there are two ministers of state, and the Fidesz MEPs did not speak to him either. It's not a debate, it's a monologue collection, which is totally unacceptable. If the Secretary of State speaks, after which we will no longer be able to comment, we will not be able to respond to his arguments because of the parliamentary rules. I would like to record that this is another example of Fidesz-KDNP trying to kill the parliamentary debate and trying to destroy the genre itself.
u2016-10-11-40	Thank you very much. István Tukacs also asked for the floor to be repeated. Here you go.
u2016-10-11-41	Mr Secretary, I would like to encourage you to respond as long as there is an opportunity in the debate to respond in return. Please don't be a coward. Defend this motion. Debate with us, for God's sake, this is the Hungarian Parliament, which is designed to shape our position in certain public affairs. However, I would very much like to - I said this in my previous comment - if not the money addressed, but the sports goals matured in a joint debate would influence what is being supported and what is not, but let that be, because the tao is, and that is what we need to think about. But I would urge you, Mr Secretary, to respond now to what has been said in this debate, because we would like to debate this matter. We would like to argue even if the public is very limited in the Hungarian Parliament and the availability of this debate is limited enough. My fellow Member, Mr Bernadett Szél, said that if I looked at the debate of kindergarten workers, the women in charge and the others, they would not watch, because there is no place. Even if they wanted to, they wouldn't be able to watch. But, Mr. Secretary, let us at least maintain the framework of parliamentarism and say something. Tell me something about why you need to protect the entrepreneur I thought was serious, proud of from knowing what he was donating. Why should we hide the fact that we know which sport they love and which sport they do not? What do you think is successful and what do you think is less successful? I want you to rule out the suspicions that this is a politically controlled system, Mr. Secretary. Please try to act as a representative of the Hungarian Government in this Parliament. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2016-10-11-42	Thank you very much, Congressman. I would like to ask my fellow Members if there is anyone else who would like to speak on this subject. [[There's no candidate.]] I don't see any contact. The consolidated debate is closed. Before I ask Mr András Tállai, State Secretary, whether he wishes to make use of the speech by his author, I see that there is a very nicely set table in front of my fellow Member, Mr Gőgös. [[Zoltán Grumpy's table has a tray of bread and peppers on it. Zoltán Pride: It's a gift!]] Dear Member, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that this is the subject of an illustration. It's very difficult for the president to run the meeting this way, because I see such delicious products here. But I do know that they didn't ask for permission, because it's not indicated in advance to me, in this sense it's an unauthorized illustration, so I ask you, Congressman, to remove this from your desk, or else I will have to... [[Zoltán Gőgös: Then I'll give it to the Secretary of State, because it's for him. Zoltán Gőgös puts the tray on Nándor Csepreghy's table, who is not in the Chamber. Applause in the ranks of the MSZP.]] Congressman, keep cleaning, because you've got a few pieces in front of you. [[Zoltán Grimlock: We'll eat this.]] You can eat it, but I recommend the restaurant outside if you don't want me to warn you, Congressman. And I'm asking for the room service to be removed from there. [[It's happening.]] After this very nice intermezzo, because, Mr Tukacs, I have already closed the debate, I am speaking to Mr State Secretary. You have a ten-minute window. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2016-10-11-43	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, The reason why we could not have a substantive debate on the bill is because I think opposition representatives cannot or do not want to understand what the substance of the bill is. [[Dr. Wind Bernadett: Yes, you can.]] Because what we're talking about in this bill is still taxing. It is now clearly regulated and interpreted. And it was just your speeches that answered what made this necessary. The Tax Code is a tax secret 53. § (1) of the Act on Taxation, data, circumstances, decisions, orders, certificates or other documents. The Act on the Rules of Taxation is quite extensive, so any tax return, any document, not only in relation to corporate tax, but also in relation to personal income tax, general income tax or any kind of tax, is considered tax. So when we talk about how much corporate tax a company pays, it's the same tax right now. The amount, amount and size of the corporate tax liability itself is still taxable. It is now clear from 2011 that the law allows the taxpayer from this corporate tax to offer for sport or cultural purposes, and the Act on the Rules of Taxation now makes it clear that, in principle, not only the rate of corporation tax, but also the benefit, offer and support from corporate tax, it also becomes a tax secret; that is to say, who gives it to the taxpayer and what amount, so who gives it to whom, to what amount, to what extent, to what extent, to what extent. [[11.00]] And I do not understand why you should have a tax, because here one of the Members demanded that the cumulative data of the taxpayer and the supported organisation be calculated annually. One of the Members demanded that this be a tax, or that we justify why it is not a tax. You don't tax because of the aggregated data, who will say the law, if you accept Parliament, you can't have a tax. Therefore, you can know how much support will be received for sports. [[Sándor Lezsák, vice-president of the Parliament takes the chair.]] By the way, the taxpayer may grant exemptions from your tax cover for itself. So if you want to make this public, you're gonna give yourself an acquittal, and you're gonna be able to make it public. By the way, there are 51 tax incentives in the Hungarian tax system, of which 2 concern third parties, third taxpayers, this is the 1 percent personal income tax system and the corporate tax system. It is very interesting that no one at the 1-percent sija offer would like to know that a particular individual who can not only give it to the church but also give it to a civil organization for any activity, and what more, he can give it to a sports organization to give 1 percent of it to which sport organization, so publish it; nor should anyone who offers it tell it to be made public. So as far as 1 percent offers are concerned, it is quite clear that this is your tax. Tax encryption, so protection, is now clearly extended in the corporate tax system. There has been no debate about this, no proposal has been received, but the opposition representatives are most of all debating the urgency of this, i.e. merely mentioning it or making a different political creed. By the way, in the corporate tax system, they vote in favour of sport and culture, but how good it would be to be a little political with who, in what amount, why. Well, in the future, the law clearly states that this is not an option. I'd like to mention one more thing. Dániel Z. Carpathian was pushing things I don't really understand. He's talking about a special agreement for strategic firms that, based on a secret agreement with the NAV, you'll have to pay less taxes. I would like to make it clear here that such an agreement does not exist. [[Dániel Z. Carpathian: I got the answer.]] There is no such agreement. The rules of taxation are laid down by law, and all taxpayers are subject to the same rules and laws. That's an obvious mistake, with goodwill, and I refuse to do that. Dear Parliament, Thanking for the pro-government opinions and counting on their support a few hours after that, I would ask that the law on the rules of taxation be amended and, of course, we are faced with all opposition attempts if it is to be defended before the Constitutional Court. The government is ready to defend this regulation, which clarifies the concept of your tax secret, if necessary, before the Constitutional Court. Thank you for your attention. [[It's a rare round of applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-10-11-44	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I salute my fellow Members. I declare that the decisions will take place on this day. Dear Parliament, It follows the discussion of the legislative committee report and the proposal for amendment submitted to the Act amending certain compensation laws, which was sent back for consideration by the President of the Republic, adopted on 7 June 2016 by the Parliament. Text of the Act sent to the President of the Republic for signature T/10727/6. Letter from the President of the Republic T/10727/7. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. The Legislative Committee's amendment proposal is T/10727/9. T/10727/10. Available on the website. Dear Parliament, The debate will be first discussed in the legislative committee's position and in the formulated minority opinion. A total of 15 minutes is available for these. At the very least, in eight minutes, the rapporteur for the committee, Mr László Vécsey, will give the majority opinion. You have the floor, Congressman Vecsey. It's not the radio that's broken if someone's listening at home, but we're looking for the microphone. Congressman Vecsey found it. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2016-10-11-45	Thank you very much. Mr President, I'm sorry, it's just the mic's a little tangled up. Dear House, At the meeting of the Legislative Committee on 6 October 2016, the House Rules of Decision 78. In proceedings pursuant to paragraphs 3 and 4 of Section T/10727, it was negotiated by T/10727. the bill amending the laws relating to certain compensations, which the President of the Republic has sent back for consideration, and the committee has established its position on that. In the light of the comments of the President of the Republic, the Committee shall adopt its Rules of Procedure. § 3 has decided to submit an amendment, which addresses the problems raised by the President of the Republic. It explained in its reasoning that according to the accepted form of the amendment, in addition to the land remaining from the compensation land base, land in cooperative use could, where appropriate, be owned by the State, which it disagrees with. In addition, it objected to the fact that the amendment also concerns the ownership of protected areas, so that their level of protection may be impaired, since the National Asset Manager does not manage property for nature protection purposes and the proposal would have required acceptance of a qualified majority on the grounds of the involvement of protected areas. Thanks to this amendment, the proposal does not state the ownership of the State in the case of land stuck in compensation procedures. The repealed provision also facilitates the settlement of ownership. I therefore call on this House to support the adoption of this proposal in its changed form. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[It's a rare round of applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-10-11-46	Thank you, Congressman Vecsey. The minority opinion will now be presented within a 7-minute time frame. I give the floor to Congressman Zoltán Gőgös.
u2016-10-11-47	Thank you very much, Mr President, for the floor. First of all, I would like to welcome the citizens of Solymár, who have been seated in the box, who are in a very, very difficult position to adopt this law in this form, and ruining their opportunities in a litigation that has been taking place for many years, which I do not think is acceptable. That is why they sent a gift to the Members, of course, to the pro-government Members, which I delivered through the Secretary of State. Some of it's right here. [[He's showing different colors of paparazzi.]] It's a chili-pick that's grown in this region in a very good quality and very good quality. [[11.10]] All fractions can be found on this tray. I do not think that opposition representatives need to be convinced of this, so I would like to appeal again to the wisdom of the pro-government representatives before the 1:00 vote. But what is the problem with this story: when this bill was put before Parliament, we did not support it at the time, and we indicated that a process started in 1992 with this type of cut, so to conclude that it does not take into account that in some areas this process has not yet ended, it cannot be done. At the time, it could be argued that the compensation system created at that time by the first government after the regime change was good or not, but it was generally consensual that no one tried to stop the implementation of it, no one tried to make legitimate demands impossible. It was possible to argue about it at the time, we argued a lot, and as a practicing farmer, I also found the extent to which, through compensation, operators who really had no place to be there were involved in land ownership, but this is another story. This was due to the fact that all compensation tickets received for compensation could be used to obtain land. And I'm telling you right now, the problem with this bill isn't basically that you're removing compensation tickets for this type of nappers from the system, and you're saying that you might try to get other assets that don't actually exist. So you also need to see that the government is evacuating its own compensation ticket. But back to the problem, the problem is that even the first local compensation case has not been completed here, so from the ground-based story of Solymár and Pilisszentiván has not yet been able to enforce his rightful will. This means that we are not talking about speculators trying to get land, but we are trying to get their ancestors back from those farmers there who desperately need these areas. We talked to them about this a year ago. Then I was told by the Ministry that, in fact, everything seems to be closed and that the areas that make this compensation possible will be selected. Unfortunately, this one year, it was still going on. It is clear that this was mainly an obstacle on the part of the counter-interested party, because serious EU subsidies can be obtained for the land. I don't want to add to what other cases this is gonna come up with. There will be a lot of agricultural debates this week, and then we will discuss what the application for EU support for land leases here looked like and how it would be implemented. So I wouldn't involve that right now. I only said this because it obviously makes it difficult to close this case, but sooner or later, this case would obviously have ended there, and we hope that those who are entitled to compensation would have received the areas they themselves requested. The President of the Republic has also indicated that it is not all right here, and we are surprised that, having outlined purely constitutional problems, he has chosen to return. We have already found that our fellow Members are not often touched by the complaint made by the President of the Republic of Hungary. It is fortunate that at some point in this case, the President of the Republic has managed to convince you, specifically in relation to nature conservation areas and cooperative-owned areas, but in the case that would be the solution to each of the thorough compensations, this is not a solution. There was still time in the days to do a definitive solution to a normal amendment, which they refused to do, by involving the council of interest formed there. Yesterday, I specifically asked that we postpone the debate on this law, and we could have made it to the deadline after the President of the Republic's return - you voted against it without a second thought. All of you have received the request sent to you by the community of those who have made amends. I don't know who read it. I suggest you all read it before the one-hour vote. I do not believe that the Hungarian Parliament has the right to put two settlements in such an impossible position. And if we look at it very, very much, there's probably more, but they're actually affected in the hardest way by this story. Once again, I would urge you and ask that at 1 p.m., if we vote, press no to the final vote on this bill, because this bill will not come into force. Be very quick to start negotiations with stakeholders so that there is no situation where they are clearly entitled to leave out legitimate compensation. And once again, no one's saying that compensation tickets that we no longer know are hand-in-hand, especially in the hands of speculators, can't be used to buy land. This is not what the people involved are asking for, and neither do we. But you can't pour the baby out with the bath water, and you can't find a solution that if someone hit him on the forehead sometime around May, specifically Minister Lazarus, and with a single motion he decided to einstand then, and then we'll settle everything. Once again, I ask this House to consider this issue, because it is on everyone's conscience. Let us not put these two settlements in such a position, depending on whose territory it is now or who does not, but it is in our best interest not to keep such a thorn in the Hungarian legislation system after such a problem. I don't think I'm gonna ask you again because I could speak on behalf of the faction, but I'd suggest that the people who are here are here because they're here. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] I want you to confirm this with your presence. I ask you not to vote for this bill in the 1 hour vote. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2016-10-11-48	Thank you, Congressman Zoltán Gőgös. Dear Parliament, I will ask the author if he wishes to speak. [[For signal:]] Yeah. I give the floor to Congressman János Pócs, Fidesz.
u2016-10-11-49	Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Dear House, For my part, I welcome the Solymarians to the gallery. At the same time, I would like to say with all due respect to Mr Gógös that if we invited the legitimate or unjust actors in the compensation, it is likely that not only the arms, but even the entire Kossuth square, would be scarce. In view of the fact that, at the time of the position of Secretary of State, you have had the opportunity, three times four years, when you could have carried through your perceived or real grievances; then you did not know that I think it would be unnecessary to pour oil on the fire. Not even because this compensation bill has been passed by the committees for a long time. The congressman had a chance, and he did. The committee made use of the proposal and the President of the Republic sent it back for consideration. He sent it back for consideration, and what the President of the Republic disagreed with in his consideration was completely harmonised. What I would like to ask is that Congressman Haughty does not try to draw attention to anyone else. It's a 20-year process. Of course, it is possible to argue that this is good or less good. I believe that from what I've done to date, doing nothing for 20 years is the best construction possible. With all due respect, I would like to ask my fellow Members to support this during the vote this afternoon. Thank you, Mr. President. [[Applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2016-10-11-50	Thank you very much. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that, at the end of the debate, you have eight minutes and 18 seconds to close the debate. Dear Parliament, I will ask if you wish to speak on behalf of the government, Mr Nándor Csepreghy. [[For signal:]] It says yes. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2016-10-11-51	Mr President, Thank you very much for the floor. Allow me, on behalf of the government, to essentially sum up the arguments on which the government supports the proposal. On the one hand, we are talking about the closure of a compensation process that has now been going on for more than 20 years. As long as this process lasts essentially, the land that is part of the compensation process is essentially in the hands of producer cooperatives that can use these land until the end of the debate, essentially excluding from the rules on the use of other public land. The government's aim is essentially to settle the situation of state-owned land remaining state-owned land, freeing from the constraints that constitute the protection of the land for compensation. Therefore, the purpose of the amendment is to settle the ownership situation of the land remaining during the compensation process. We believe that the users concerned will also be given the opportunity to use these land under very clear rules, under the NFA Act, everyone has the opportunity to obtain these land under the rules laid down there. The fear that would lead to the depreciation of the compensation ticket and, as the Member said at the TAB, is not in place because the rules on the use of compensation tickets do not state that it must be a compulsory land saving, so this issue can be resolved through other state-owned asset redemptions. [[11.20]] So we are talking about how state-owned areas, but which cannot be used freely by the State, are subject to the NFA Act and become available to all farmers in the same way and under the same conditions, and the Government therefore supports the adoption of the proposal. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-10-11-52	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, It is now up to Members to take part in the time-frames on the agenda. There is no possibility of a two-minute comment during the debate. First, I give the floor to Congressman Zoltán Magyar, Jobbik.
u2016-10-11-53	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Fellow Members! Allow me to start by saying hello to those involved in the Falcons in the box. I would also like to underline this, because the very point was not mentioned here by my fellow members of the Government. No one told you there was no need to close the compensation. In fact, it is acceptable to do so in such a way as they intend to do - just wait until the affairs of those involved in these two settlements are closed! If this had been brought here then, we would probably even have supported this proposal, because there are indeed areas in the country that have not been settled after more than two decades, and it would certainly be in the right place with the Hungarian state. But these two settlements are in a special situation, and don't pretend they haven't encountered this problem. All the MPs got the materials, maybe not everyone took the trouble to read it, and that could be the problem. From these materials, it is clear what the story was, what the process was, that we had come to this point. Obviously, in the absence of time, I have no way of detailing this to you, but I would quote these letters only because I see that you have no idea what you would like to decide at 13 o'clock, and in order to be able to make this decision responsibly, I feel that this is what I need to do. To this day, no compensation has been made in the village of Solymár. Although the claim lawsuits for the Rozmaring Production Cooperative were closed in 2006, the relevant Rozmaring MGTSZ failed to establish the compensation ground for various administrative reasons. Here, however, there is also a significant amount of credit, while the Körmend and Vedéke Savings Association, which registered the mortgage, is being wound up, so a lot of special problems outside those involved make it difficult to close the case that they cannot be punished by simply not getting their fair share. The Hungarian Parliament cannot go against the affected citizens of these settlements, it is simply absurd. We should be making laws for them, not them. So I stress that if this set of problems did not exist, there would be no problem with this legislation. My fellow Member, János Pócs, makes such arguments as to what the MSZP missed during its own governance. Well, that could be classified for hours, but what they missed, and now you're gonna erase it, not solve it. So that's not an argument, quite simply. And I don't understand this urgency either. When the legislation first came in, it was clear what they wanted. They wanted to take these lands into NFA management and then privatize these lands for their buddies. I don't know who or why it was in the right place, but it would have been possible to explain, even on the basis of your depraved political intentions, why we had to beat this up so quickly. But since then, President Áder has rejected the legislation, foiled your plans, because it is said that privatisation will be stopped, because this is exactly what we will be discussing here in this House on Friday. From now on, I do not understand why this legislation has become so urgent. If they listen to their conscience, if they take into account the interests of the citizens of Solymár, then at 13 o'clock we will vote off this legislation, we will carry out their affairs in a fair and honest manner, as would otherwise be required by the honour of all of us, and then we will bring about a law that closes the compensation in a similar way. I do not understand why the majority of the Hungarian Parliament has an interest in destroying these people. I really don't understand where you're going with this. I am very sorry that ministers and ministers of state - I am talking about János Lázár and Paul Völner, who are also authors - have not dared to come in now and look these people in the eye. Once again, János Pócs is taking the fall, as is usually the case with sensitive matters. I believe you can handle everything, but on a matter of this magnitude, I think it would have been expected that the Signatory Minister would be present and take this with a face and a name. [[János Pócs is talking to better representatives.]] This is unacceptable. Consider, we still have until 13:00, and then by consensus, together with all the parliamentary parties, let us make a decision that closes the compensation, but only if these people finally get their fair share. Thank you for the floor, Mr President, and I hope you will consider our words. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2016-10-11-54	Thank you very much. The next announced speaker was Mr Sallai R. Benedek, Member of the LMP.
u2016-10-11-55	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I am a little disappointed in my fellow Member, Zoltán Gőgös, because the straw is very weak when it comes to trusting the wisdom of the pro-government representatives. So we're not going to do much right now, because it's basically the need for legality, the need for justice, the need for fair judgment, that's what we need in this case. Obviously, we can go back, as my fellow Member Zoltán Gőgös did, to the compensation system, and I think we should argue about it. There is a need to argue about the frauds and the injustices that have happened to local people, how speculators have obtained the compensation tickets for pennies and used them for their own good, and then how they gained billions of them. I trust that one day Hungary will have a decent government who will look at this exact compensation process one day to see if those who should have been compensated by the then government would indeed have been compensated. Obviously, I also share the opinion of my fellow Member, Zoltán Magyar. There is no argument in any way that something has not been done by the MSZP, so you are now doing more harm; and I will not accept, if you do not mind, the argument made by Secretary of State Csepreghy that the conclusion of a 20-year process is not closed. Hungarian citizens have 5-6 billion compensation tickets at the moment. People who got knocked out of their land, whose horses they took away, whose farms they took away. The compensation process isn't closed! At the moment, until the sense of justice of the Hungarian people can say so, we cannot talk about this. Not to mention one more thing I'd recommend to you as a political curiosity. At the time, in connection with the miscarriages and then the nationalisations, what happened was that private property was taken away, making local people runaway, and that was why compensation was needed. Now you've been doing something different for the last few years. Public property was taken from private people who used it for 20 to 30 years. Now that's how you've made people run for their lives. So I will be very interested to know what kind of compensation law will be passed if you are once removed from Parliament and how Hungary will be put in order. With one more thing, if you will allow me to argue, Mr Secretary, because obviously, when you say that the state has to collect these lands, I do not feel that your argument is entirely acceptable, because we have been listening for a year and a half to the fact that the agricultural land is in the best place for Hungarian farmers, we must give it to Hungarian farmers. The lies of the entire ground-privatization have been hacked through by the fact that the state is not a good farmer, because it's being stolen by everyone - the management - and now they're telling us to pick it up for the state, not to give it to people who would otherwise farm on it. That's not a good point. That's what they've been arguing about for the past year and a half! You have to give it to the farmers, to those who get it. It must be given to those who are emotionally attached to this, to whom justice requires that their compensation system be completed, and until this is done, we must not talk about the end of compensation, nor that the Hungarian government, representing civil, Christian and conservative values, sought to bring justice to the family members of those who have been subjected to the communist regime. And obviously, we can also get to what the Head of State has sent back, which I would also like to draw attention to in a completely incidental segment. These laws cannot simply be abolished. I hope that if the opposition joins forces and attacks this at the Constitutional Court, there will be a conception. Not only for compensation systems, but also for nature conservation reasons. This compensation law also provided for, among other things, what to do with protected areas, with the state-owned ones, how to keep the land in question, if it has national protection, state-owned, and how to preserve protection, how to maintain the level of protection, how to carry out the compensation system outside protected areas. And that's important because it could be a constitutional offense. We believe that the 1992 XLIX. In the case of law, an amendment is required instead of repealing it. There is a clear need to make sure that the cross-border appendices provided in 1992 can be made by settlements and that this does not change for any settlements. Accordingly, it is clearly necessary that, during today, this should either be off the agenda or not voted on, and we will rethink, in substance, the full amendment of this law in accordance with the interests of all the people who live there at such a level as to enable the family members who have been injured to make up for it. [[11.30]] With all due respect, I would like to ask my fellow members of the Government that this should not be voted on this day, that there should be a discussion to end the compensation first and then to deal with the fate of these situations, and even to return to the settlement of the situation of the Hungarian compensation, how this could have been better done for the interests of the nation, for the people living in the countryside and for the families of those who have been abused. To do that, I ask with respect for your support. Thank you for the floor, Mr President.
u2016-10-11-56	Thank you, Congressman Sallai. The next speaker is Mr Zoltán Gőgös, MSZP.
u2016-10-11-57	Thank you, Mr President, for the floor. I tried to make it clear in the seven minutes what was wrong, but I didn't realize they didn't understand. [[Interviews from Fidesz: You said you wouldn't say another word.]] If I had received an intelligent answer or that my fellow Members would have considered it then, I would obviously not have spoken to him again, but I see that command is at such a level that they are confronted with common sense. I would like to point out that we have nothing to be ashamed of in terms of compensation for our previous governance. Many areas have been identified, many compensation cases have been closed during that period. There are plenty of examples of this from Peace, Borsod, a lot of places. The problem here, my fellow Members, is that you are about to close something with no end, just to end it. No one in their right mind can explain why this has to be closed because there's no valid reason. What has already been amended by the President of the Republic on the grounds of his submission or return has already taken out part of the reasons. The other is that there is a law before us that seems to stop the auctions, for example, so in Hungarian: from now on, what do they want with these lands? Why would the state want this or why? Why couldn't he stay in the system until, for example, the compensation process of these two settlements had been completed? There is a huge contradiction here, because when this was submitted at the time, the auctions were still full of gas and full of energy, then it could be said that all my friends had not yet received land, so that we could quickly get more land from somewhere, so that we could give it to them. But now it's gone. Here, on Friday, we will discuss the law and the OGY resolution that is supposed to end this process, of course, it is also falsely submitted, because the earth would be closed by this law within the framework of the programme for farmers, and then you may come up with another name and continue the day after tomorrow. [[János Pócs is leaving the meeting room.]] I think it's a completely amazing story, and there's no sane explanation why they're doing this now. Everyone has received those letters, and Members should read the letters of those concerned. You should read it, believe it, and respond to requests that contain citizens' problems. I know it's messy, and I know it's a job, but you shouldn't go blind to every boss like a calf. Once again, I'm telling you to think about it, because apart from the fact that you're not gonna solve anything with this case, what are you gonna solve with it, so honestly? - and they're so bitter to a lot of people. Because I'm not saying that we didn't adopt or adopt laws in this House, even in our time, that hurt people, but at least not consciously. Now they're consciously doing it to understand, because here are the characters that will be harmed. Parliament can't do any harm on purpose. 'Cause if you don't know it's gonna hurt, I'm gonna tell you it's in the hat, you're gonna have to change it, 'cause it turned out. Well, that's where it turned out. It's not that when we accept it, then someone reads it and realizes that they did something wrong to him, but it turns out when they submitted that there was a problem. And really, very, very fair and fair, the local community of interests tried to tell everyone that we shouldn't do this, because it doesn't make any sense. Obviously, there is no more reason than not to do this, and we have told you a thousand times about why they are not doing this, but just this once -- good, there are quite a few people here who decide to do it now, and that I have now trusted in wisdom, my fellow Member Sallai, because there are more of them. If there were more of us in this horseshoe, that law wouldn't be here. [[Sallai R. Benedict intervenes.]] That's not a question. I was hoping that, at least once, this hadn't happened recently, but at least once, they'd come to their senses and then they'd listen, not just what orders they were given at the faction meeting. It would be nice to think about this, because it will be very difficult not only for the people here, but also for the people who have been harmed. I believe that in these compensation cases, I have already indicated this, so far there has been a consensus in politics. So there wasn't any rough interference that would've hurt people in this crowd. I would like to ask you, Mr. Secretary, to hold a quick consultation, nothing will happen if there is no vote on this today. Yesterday I asked for a delay because then we shouldn't have pushed no, we simply didn't vote on it, they would have sat down with the stakeholders, they would have discussed what to do. They would have brought in an amendment that, as an exception - because we do have a lot of these rules - would have put in that everything was okay, just until this case was closed, they wouldn't be covered. It's a clause, not a complicated thing. This could be done without further ado if we did not vote on it today. By the way, Parliament has the right to take something off before the vote, but it is a special procedure. I think that you should consider and decide, but you should decide not to cause mass damage to these two settlements in the first place - we obviously know that now, but there may be others - as well. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of Jobbik and LMP.]]
u2016-10-11-58	Thank you very much, Congressman Haughty. I give the floor to Congressman Zoltán Magyar, Jobbik.
u2016-10-11-59	I am sorry that János Pócs has also escaped from the room now, because there is no one left to record this legislation with name and face. [[Zoltán Proud: There is no author.]] I'm just hoping that you won't call the local stakeholders to find out who they want to rent this land to, but, let's just say, you're calling to get it off the agenda. In any case, I would like to offer the support of Jobbik to two-thirds, four-fifths, no matter what, but as I look at it, the other opposition groups would also be partners in this, either as an exception to the few settlements where this could still be a problem, or to take it off today's voting day, and we hope to bring it back in a few weeks or months when the problem of those concerned is finally resolved. That is what I would like to ask, and what is more, that we try, exceptionally, to go through a normal debate, that is to say, I would like to ask the Secretary of State or anyone on the pro-government side to speak to him, let us discuss this, and now there are those involved who would like to hear your arguments. Don't just say your demagogic position in the closet, there's still an hour left. Let's act. Thank you, Mr. President. [[Applause in the lines of Jobbik, MSZP and LMP.]]
u2016-10-11-60	Thank you very much. I'm gonna need my coworkers to tell the author to come back to the gym. [[Noise.]] Honourable Parliament! In the meantime, I'll call for a trial break. We'll wait for the author. We're taking a break. [[It's a short break.]] Dear Parliament, I'm ordering a 10-minute break, so we'll resume at 11:50. (Sunning: 11.40 - 11.50 President: Sándor LezsákJournalists: István Ikotity and Dr István Tiba)
u2016-10-11-61	With all due respect, my fellow Members, please take your seats. We'll get back to work. On behalf of the Government, Mr Nándor Csepreghy, State Secretary, has indicated that he wishes to comment on the debate.
u2016-10-11-62	Thank you very much, Mr President, for the opportunity to speak again, I would just like to reflect on the Member, so that even he may be able to reciprocate, not just in the final debate or in the closing statement. I do not want to question the fact that the current users of the earth are doing well, and they are actually planning to sustain themselves from agricultural production. I think, however, that there is no dispute that the lands which, due to the compensation process, are essentially trapped in the category of state land, which, due to the compensation law, does not allow for other types of public use, can produce less revenue for the State than the land over which the State can decide itself; whether it is freely farming it or by giving these lands into a long-term contract, it will be given a lease contract under the relevant laws of the National Land Fund. I think maybe there's no argument here. I think it is a general experience that if there is a procedure in which there has not been a final solution by court for more than 25 years, because the decisions on the land fund are constantly being challenged by the relevant producer cooperatives - which also has an assumption that the closure of the case is not the cause of the attack, but the withdrawal of the case and the subsequent decision-making on this issue - I have the courage to declare it on behalf of the government, then this case will never end. So the government's goal is to get these lands out of the land for compensation, to become state-owned land, and according to the rules of the National Earth Fund, even the current users who use these lands in their right to do so, even other users can compete for it. Our approach is essentially a matter of wealth policy when we make this decision, and I think that is an argument that answers this question as to why it has an actuality at the moment. There will never be an end to these lawsuits, because there will always be a loophole through which time can be drawn in this respect. [[Zoltán Grimlock: It must be closed!]] I would not like to repeat what I said about the fear of devalued compensation tickets, as there are many other means for the state to compensate the owners of compensation tickets. And I would like to say to Congressman Sallai that, instead of 5 billion, we are talking about 2 billion forints worth of compensation tickets at the moment, as far as I know. [[Sallai R. Benedict: That's a lot.]] But that, too, is undoubtedly of considerable value. Thank you, Mr. President.
u2016-10-11-63	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. I give the floor to Congressman Zoltán Magyar, Jobbik.
u2016-10-11-64	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr. Secretary. If the governments at all have brought in rubber legislation that has allowed such cases to be drawn up so far and so far, then let us not punish those affected, so this is simply unacceptable. Or if the Hungarian State intervenes with good intentions, because this was also suggested by the Secretary of State, and it will certainly be those to whom this right should be granted to receive these lands, then the Hungarian State will intervene and give them free ownership if he wishes to close this deal short, but unfortunately this legislation does not point to this. So if we were to accept such an amendment, obviously we wouldn't have a problem with that. It is quite simply absurd that the Hungarian state will establish a framework that lasts for decades, that people will not have access to their land, and then at the end, since it considers that it will never end, we will make a decision that will never allow those affected to be owned. This is unacceptable, these are not arguments. For example, if the change of regime had actually taken place in Solymár, the Rozmaring Cooperative and then later the asset management company. It would not have used a multitude of tricks to prevent the foundation from being created and given these lands to those affected, then we should not be in a debate now, and we would probably not have a problem with the rest of the legislation. But this is unacceptable because of the number and legal basis of the parties involved, and I trust that they will change their minds for the next hour, and we will make an exception to these important arguments. I have not heard a single pro-government argument in the last slowly one-hour debate, which confirms why we now have to do this with such urgency, at the expense of so many people. That's the answer I was looking for. Thank you. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2016-10-11-65	Thank you very much. I give the floor to Congressman Zoltán Gőgös, MSZP.
u2016-10-11-66	It is true that there are lawsuits that really, in principle, cannot be seen to end, but they are not quite like that. Sooner or later, this must be the end, and even the government should try to close the loopholes, if any, which cannot be closed. The other: it is not a good solution for those affected here to obtain these lands through the NFA, because the current NFA regulation does not give individuals an opportunity to receive free benefits, nor does it give them an opportunity... - the current rule seems that there will be no more sales over 3 hectares, at least that is what we are seeing now, and here we are talking about a larger area. I also think that this could be resolved by removing pending litigation from this process, and from then on there is certainly no breach of this right, and the other things could be taken further. But there are very well-trained lawyers who, of course, would be able to do exactly that, so that this circle doesn't get hurt. I do not know whether this can be solved in Vhr., it is unlikely, but it is certainly necessary to find a solution, because this is a predictable process, and it cannot intentionally cause it, I understand that this is not intentional, but it cannot, by negligence, cause damage to people whose problems are known to be the problem, and they also predict this through several channels: through an ombudsman, through a request that we have distributed, everyone can read, so this is not a matter of air. We should find a solution to this, I think, and we are here to try and find a solution to this. That is why I suggested yesterday that we not vote on it, that we give ourselves the two weeks that we have in the presidential petition of the Republic. In two weeks you can bring in a pass that addresses this particular problem, and from then on no one has a bad taste in the mouth about this law.
u2016-10-11-67	Thank you very much, Congressman Haughty. I give the floor to Secretary of State Nándor Csepreghy.
u2016-10-11-68	Thank you very much, Mr President, for the opportunity to speak again. Congressman! In the meantime, I asked him, at the moment, that the cooperatives that use these lands during the period of compensatory protection would not pay the state anything in exchange for this land. It can be seen that the process that has not been resolved for 25 years will not be resolved in the foreseeable future. Thus, the State must act by providing the opportunity not only to satisfy the owners of compensation tickets through land application, but also by providing for the possibility for these people to receive their legitimate claims for compensation, receive their compensation and, on the other hand, the possibility for the State to actually manage State property responsibly. And then, indeed, you can come in with a rental arrangement, even for farmers who produce in the current cooperative, on the basis of which they have to pay rent, but from the side of the responsible management of state wealth, we believe that this is a defenseable story. You would be right to say that we will extract the land affected by the compensation area from this circle without creating any public compensation on the other side. We say that since we have not been able to resolve this debate for 25 years, that is why compensation should be made differently and that a market-based agreement on land should be concluded between the State as owner and potential users or even future users under the NFA Act.
u2016-10-11-69	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I'll ask if anyone else would like to comment in the remaining timeframes. [[No one's reporting.]] I don't see any contact. Dear Parliament, The debate is closed. I ask the rapporteur whether he wishes to respond to what was said in the debate. [[For signal:]] Yes, Congressman János Pócs indicates that he did. You have the floor, you have an eight-minute 18-second time frame.
u2016-10-11-70	Thank you, Mr. President. I do not want to take advantage of the time frame, but rather, regrettably, I would like to make my political observation to the dear guests in the gallery that it is quite sad for the opposition, especially on the part of Congressman Gógös, that in one way he is dragging civilians in as victims and trying to make an even greater sacrifice of them. [[Zoltán Grimlock: Sit down quickly!]] As the Secretary of State said, this is a 25-year-old problem. [[Zoltán Grimlock: Sit down now!]] And I'm sorry about the rerun. [[Zoltán Grimlock: Sit down!]] But the Secretary of State had the opportunity to remedy this problem three times in four years. [[12.00]] He had the opportunity to express his position in the Commission debate, and Mr President, given his own experience, must know best that he will never be able to make decisions that are good for everyone. So, quote from the time you were on the government, I don't know. [[Zoltán Grimlock: Don't you have a better record?]] that when the 13th month's salary and pension were taken away or the prescription fee and other things were introduced, he put those involved on the gallery, because as I said earlier - sorry for the repetition - Kossuth tér would not have been enough. Twenty-five years couldn't solve this problem, we wanted to close this chapter [[Zoltán Grimlock: I just didn't make it!]] As the Secretary of State said. I'm sure the solution to the lockdown isn't perfect. The President of the Republic has considered, reviewed, the aspect that he has objected to is corrected in the amendment. Absolute truth is neither in this case nor in anyone else. When opposition fellow Members here are trying to scare each other and the people involved [[Zoltán Grimlock: No alarms!]] I'd just like to repeat it as a pointer. [[Hungarian Zoltán: No alarms! You're the ones that scare them.]] What the Secretary of State said: for those with a certificate of compensation, a number of other areas will be opened [[Zoltán Grimlock: Give me one.]] where they can enforce their legitimate claims. In this spirit, we respectfully ask our fellow Members to vote in favour of the amendment. Thank you, Mr. President. [[Applause from the Fidesz ranks.]]
u2016-10-11-71	Thank you very much, Congressman Puddle. Dear Parliament, Decisions will be taken on this day. Now I'm going to take a break. At the earliest, we start our work with decisions at 13 o'clock. So it's a 13-hour break. (Sunning: 12.01. - 13.02) President: Sándor LezsákJournalists: Dr. István Tiba and István Ikotity)
u2016-10-11-72	I respectfully ask my fellow Members to take their seats; as long as they have their seats, they will take them. Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, We are now continuing our work with the decisions on the agenda. Check to see if your card has been placed in the voting machine. Dear Parliament, It follows a decision on the proposal for an amendment by the legislative committee to the Act amending certain compensation laws and the final vote, which was sent back for consideration by the President of the Republic, adopted on 7 June 2016 by the Parliament. Text of the Act sent to the President of the Republic for signature T/10727/6. Letter from the President of the Republic T/10727/7. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. T/10727/9. and T/10727/10. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I would like to inform you that, in accordance with the provisions of the House Rules, there is no possibility to maintain a proposal amending the decision and to request a separate vote. Dear Parliament, We are now deciding on an amendment to the Legislative Committee. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether the Legislative Committee will accept T/10727/9. Amendment No 3 of the European Parliament and of the Council. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the amendment by 115 votes in favour, 53 against and without abstentions. Dear Parliament, It is now the final vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts the unproclaimed law on the amendment of certain compensation laws, with the amendments which have just been adopted. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the proposal by 114 votes to 56, with no abstentions. Dear Parliament, The 2003 XCII on the system of taxation follows a series of steps. T/12450. Final vote of bill No 1. I remind you that, according to our decision yesterday, the bill will be dealt with in an exceptional procedure by the Parliament. As no amendments have been tabled to the proposal, we will decide on the submitted text of the bill in the final vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether the T/12450 will accept it. Bill No. 1. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Agreement on International Carriage of Goods by Rail - - and the publication in a uniform structure of amendments to its Annexes for 2015 and 2016 T/12178. Final vote of bill No 1. As no amendments have been tabled to the proposal, we will decide on the submitted text of the bill in the final vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether T/12178 accepts it. Bill No. 1. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the bill with 172 votes in favour, no votes against and no abstentions. Following the process of publishing the Agreement between the Government of Hungary and the Government of Australia on the programme of temporary work for tourists T/1231. Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. T/1131/6. and its summary report T/1131/7. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. We are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether the Legislative Committee will accept T/1231/6. A summary of the amendment proposed by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the summary amendment by 169 votes in favour, 1 against and 1 abstention. It is now the final vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts T/1131/8. A single proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the single proposal with 171 votes in favour, no votes against and no abstentions. H/10540 on the adoption of the report on the activities of the Commissioner for Fundamental Rights and his alternates in 2015. Final vote on the proposal for a decision. [[13.10]] As no amendments to the proposal have been tabled, we will decide on the submitted text of the proposal for a decision in the final vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether H/10540 accepts it. A proposal for a decision. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the resolution proposal by 145 votes to 24, with 2 abstentions. Following is the Information Notice on the professional activities of the State Audit Office in 2015 and the report on the adoption of the report on the operation of the institution for the National Assembly H/10915. Final vote on the proposal for a decision. As no amendments to the proposal have been tabled, we will decide on the submitted text of the proposal for a decision in the final vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether H/10915. A proposal for a decision. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the resolution proposal by 115 votes in favour, 57 against and 1 abstention. The Comprehensive Economic and Trade Agreement between the European Union and its Member States, of the one part, and Canada, of the other part, is hereby concluded. H/12180. Decision on the proposal for a summary amendment to the decision and the final vote. The legislative committee's proposal for a summary amendment H/12180/7. H/12180/8. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. We are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether the Legislative Committee accepts H/12180/7. A summary of the amendment proposed by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the summary amendment by 113 votes in favour, 3 against and 53 abstentions. It is now the final vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts H/12180/9. A single proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the single proposal by 102 votes to 33 with 33 abstentions. A series of amendments to EU and international law governing cooperation in criminal matters and to certain criminal law laws for legal harmonisation purposes will follow. Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. The legislative committee's proposal for a summary amendment T/1132/5. and a summary report by T/1132/6. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. We are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether the Legislative Committee will accept T/1132/5. A summary of the amendment proposed by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the summary amendment by 122 votes in favour, no votes against, with 51 abstentions. It is now the final vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts T/1132/7. A single proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the single proposal by 116 votes to six, with 51 abstentions. Following the review of the central offices and the district T/11907 amending certain laws relating to the strengthening of offices and the delegation of tasks of certain budgetary bodies Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. T/11907/5. and a summary report by T/11907/6. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. We are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether the Legislative Committee accepts T/11907/5. A summary of the amendment proposed by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the summary amendment by 113 votes in favour, 35 against and 23 abstentions. It is now the final vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts T/19107/7. A single proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the single proposal by 114 votes to 34, with 23 abstentions. Next up is the 2007 LXXXVI on electricity. T/11901. Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. T/11901/6. and the summary report by T/11901/7. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I would like to inform you that the house rule is 48. Pursuant to paragraph 4 of Section 4 of the Act, the Group of the LMP proposed the continuation of Amendment 2. That's what we'll decide first. Amendment 2 is proposed by Mr Sallai R. Benedek. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains the proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The LMP Group proposed that Amendment 2 be maintained. That's what we'll decide first. Amendment 2 is proposed by Mr Sallai R. Benedek. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains the proposal. Please vote now. (Vote.) I declare the resolution: the Parliament rejected the amendment by 58 votes in favour, 113 against and without abstentions. [[13.20]] As the Parliament has not maintained an amendment, we are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether the Legislative Committee accepts T/19101/6. A summary of the amendment proposed by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament adopted the bill by 113 votes in favour, 33 against and 24 abstentions. It is now the final vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts T/19101/9. A single proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the single proposal by 113 votes in favour, 58 against and without abstentions. Next up is the T/12176 on the Habsburg Otto Foundation. Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. I would like to welcome, on behalf of the Habsburg-Lotaringian family, the Archduke György Habsburg, who is in the box, who will monitor the decision-making process on the spot. T/12176/8. and the summary report by T/12176/9. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I would like to inform you that the house rule is 48. § 4 of the MSZP Group proposed the continuation of Amendment 3. That's what we'll decide first. Amendment 3 is proposed by Gergely Bárándy and his fellow Members. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains the proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] The MSZP Group proposed that Amendment 3 be maintained. That's what we'll decide first. Amendment 3 is proposed by Gergely Bárándy and his fellow Members. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains the proposal. Please vote. (Vote.) I declare the resolution: Parliament rejected the amendment by 57 votes in favour, 115 against and without abstentions. As the Parliament has not maintained an amendment, we are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether the Legislative Committee accepts T/12176/8. A summary of the amendment proposed by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the summary amendment by 115 votes in favour, 27 against and 29 abstentions. It is now the final vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts T/12176/11. A single proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the single proposal by 115 votes in favour, 27 against and 29 abstentions. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] Dear Parliament, Next up is the 1992 XXXVIII on public finances. Act LXV of 2006 amending certain related laws Act CLXXXI of 2011 on the judicial records of civil society organisations and related procedural rules. T/12177 on the amendment of Law T/12177 Final vote of bill No 1. However, in the light of a request for action, we must also decide to maintain proposals for amendments. I would like to inform you that the house rule is 48. § 4 of the LMP Group proposed that amendments No 3 and 4 be maintained. That's what we're gonna decide first. Amendment 3 is proposed by István Ikotity. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains the proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] The Parliament rejected the amendment by 58 votes in favour, 113 against and without abstentions. Amendment No 4 was tabled by István Ikotity. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains the proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament rejected the amendment by 57 votes to 114, with no abstentions. As the Parliament did not maintain a proposal for an amendment, nor did the amendment summarised for the proposal, we decided on the text of the bill submitted in the final vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts T/12177. Bill No. 1. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament adopted the bill by 115 votes in favour, 57 against and without abstentions. Dear Parliament, We now decide on the inclusion of a series of proposals. I would like to remind you that yesterday, the Parliament has already held a hearing on these matters. I therefore ask you whether you will be included in a series of articles by Bertalan Tóth, MSZP, and its fellow Members, in the 2007 II. on the entry and residence of third-country nationals in order to remove the State bond of establishment. T/1265. a proposal for a regulation tabled by the Court of Justice of the European Union. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament rejected the draft bill by 56 votes in favour, 114 votes against and without abstentions. I ask you whether you will be included in a series of articles entitled T/11023, by Mrs Hegedűs Lorántné Jobbikós, on the amendment of certain laws relating to the remuneration of mayors of small establishments. a proposal for a regulation tabled by the Court of Justice of the European Union. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not include the bill with 56 votes in favour, 3 votes against and 104 abstentions. Dear Parliament, We've reached the end of the decisions. I'm ordering a two-minute technical break. [[It's a short break.]] [[13.30]] With all due respect, my fellow Members, take your seats. [[It's ringing.]] [[It's ringing.]] Step out of the room, and you'll discuss your troubles in the hallway. Fellow Members, take your seats. We'll get back to work. (Ringing bells. ) I respectfully welcome the guests, the young ladies and gentlemen, and my fellow Members, to take their seats. Dear Parliament, We'll get back to work. A joint general debate on the draft law on general administrative order and the draft law on administrative order will be launched. Government referrals T/12233 and T/12234. Available on the parliamentary IT network. [[Noise. It's ringing.]] With all due respect, my fellow Members... thank you very much. I would like to inform you that the proposal is being discussed as a minority item by the Parliament. Dear Parliament, First, I give the floor to Mr László Trócsányi, Minister of Justice, rapporteur of the points on the agenda. You have a 40-minute window, Minister. You have the floor.
u2016-10-11-73	Mr President, Ladies and Gentlemen, Dear Parliament, On 13 September, in the expose of the Civil Procedure Bill, I indicated that the Government decided in its decision on the concept of civil procedure on the need to regulate administrative litigation independently. The Government then made a codification of the administrative order 1011/2015. In its decision of the Government, it authorised the development of the concept of administrative order. In parallel with the preparation of the law, the general administrative order law was prepared. At its meeting on 13 May 2015, the Government discussed and adopted reports on the concept of general administrative order and administrative order and on certain tasks related to the preparation of the Act on Administrative Rules and the General Administrative Rules Act 1352/2015. By decision of the Government, it ordered the draft of the two laws to be drawn up. A codification committee composed of representatives of science, justice, central and territorial administrations was involved in the development of the concepts and drafts of both laws. The completed drafts were submitted to a social debate on 1 April 2016, during which a number of comments were received, which were largely used. The Ministry of Justice has made its proposal on possible amendments to the judicial system related to administrative litigation and is currently conducting political discussions with the representatives of the parliamentary parties. On 18 May 1896 Ágos Pulszky, rapporteur of the committee sent by Parliament, said on the general debate of the bill on administrative courts:. From the middle of the century onwards, governments have always ensured that certain limits are imposed on their own media, even if these barriers have led to some obstacle to the activities of governments that were almost arbitrary in the area of public administration. Only after a long time, only since the end of the last century has the view on European land that there is not only a need for control from the point of view of governance, it is necessary to have sufficient powers, it is necessary to have an institution guarding such protection of powers, but also that it is necessary for the benefit of the public at the same time. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. However, the Hungarian Royal Administrative Court was terminated in 1949. The culture and importance of public justice, due to the lack of more than 50 years, do not have the same background as our civil or criminal justice. We cannot refer to decisions such as the Blanco case or the Fleurette case in France, but we do not have such roots as the German administrative judicial case that resuscitated after the Second World War. In Hungary, the communist-socialist period broke the traditions of public law justice, the case law before 1949 vanished, everything had to start again in 1991. This is also the reason why lawyers have often looked down on administrative law, and it was not attractive to engage in public law. However, it should also be noted that the Constitutional Court can make a major contribution to the development of public-law culture through the institution of the constitutional complaint. The legislator extended the administrative court procedure in 1991 on the basis of a decision of the Constitutional Court. In view of the fundamental characteristics of the system established in 1991, it still exists today, while the XXVI of 1991 on the extension of the judicial review of administrative decisions. Law only opened the administrative judicial procedure on a temporary basis. As István Balsai emphasized in his then expozee, gradualness and financial scarcity resulted in the opening of the judicial procedure only against official decisions and the creation of independent administrative justice. Since 1991 we have seen a number of organizational changes, administrative trials have been installed in various forums, and we cannot really talk about permanence in the last 25 years. Nor can we talk about continuity in the area of administrative law, the system of public administration, as well as its system of organisation and functioning, has undergone huge changes. In view of the changes, it is also necessary to renew administrative procedural law and litigation. The areas covered by the two proposals submitted, administrative procedural law and administrative litigation are two closely interlinked rules constituting synthesis. They work together to complement each other, and they also form the legal protection net, while they differ in their nature and affect each other, they are in a kind of equilibrium. On the one hand, it is important to stress that the administrative authority procedure is not merely a preparatory procedure before an administrative action and, on the other hand, an administrative action is not a second or third-degree procedure. At the same time, due to their succession, they interact and form a time unit, so that they cannot be completely independent from each other. Administrative procedural rules provide for a kind of advanced legal protection by providing for a number of procedural guarantees stemming from the principles of the rule of law and legal certainty. In addition, administrative litigation provides for ex post legal protection. The latter also forms and protects administrative procedural law and has an impact on, inter alia, those procedural guarantees. Together, they form a fully coherent legal protection system in their unity. [[13.40]] Further evidence of the concentration is the requirement of timeliness, which must be borne in mind in both proceedings. The interest linked to the swift closure of cases links administrative proceedings and administrative litigation, since they can only ensure this together. It can therefore be seen that both procedural laws are both individually and collectively of guarantee and fundamental importance in ensuring the effective protection of citizens' rights. In view of the above characteristics, taking into account the combined presence of separation and concentration, codification had to be carried out in this regard. In the absence of administrative judicial action, following the Second World War, the authority's procedural law tried to ensure the protection of the public administration's rights, and the emphasis was on administrative procedural rules. After 1991, the emphasis began to shift very slowly. We have now come to the point of creating a new balance between the two procedures. This is why the two legislative proposals have been drawn up in parallel, ensuring the development of procedural rules that allow for smooth legal protection and coherence. The Akr. And KP. together, systematically renewed, with paradigmatic changes, ensure the legitimate functioning of the public administration and the exercise of the right of customers to a fair trial. Ladies and Gentlemen, Dear Parliament, Thus, as a coronation of the renewal and reform of public administration, the legislative proposals before us regulate administrative procedures and the procedures of administrative courts again. Please allow me to briefly describe the main cornerstones, links and legal institutions of the two Codes of Procedure. Logical order of the first movement of the Akr. I would like to refer to its rules and innovations, in which I will address the following issues: what makes public administration general? ; scope of the proposal; different forms of procedure; time-limit calculation; methods of cooperation between authorities; changes in the redress system. First of all, what makes public administration general? There are common elements of the various administrative procedures, which can be generalised at a high, legislative level. These general rules are set out in the previous Administrative Procedure Act, the 1957 IV Act. Act No CXL of 2004 on general rules for administrative procedures and services, replacing it Law, the Ket. have been established. Due to the accelerated social and technological development, as well as the differing approach of the changing governments, the Ket. could not become a legal basis for the law of public procedure, because in ten years practically all its provisions have been changed, some of them several times. His text was growing, but his coherence was weakened and eventually became some sort of a manual of administrators. More and more procedures have been eliminated by the Ket. The application of the so-called underlying legislation, which called into question the Ket, has become a practice under its scope. its overall general nature. The basic idea of the proposal is that, since all the essential elements of the thousands of types of proceedings cannot be laid down in a law, it seeks only to lay down rules which are indeed common in all proceedings. It is up to the sector-specific procedural legislation to determine the necessary derogations and additional procedural rules that are also applicable. As you may notice, about a quarter of the proposal is the current Ket. the extent to which. Its language ignores unnecessary, excessive legal wording, much more understandable, so it is easier for customers, but also for administrators to interpret it if necessary. In fact, it should not be overlooked the fact that administrators employed by public authorities often have a secondary education. The problems arising from over-regulation were no longer reasonably manageable. The Ket. the application of privileged and general procedural rules has made it so difficult to apply the law that there is no provision left for Ket. It would not have been modified in some 12 years of its history. In addition, attention should be paid to the simple thesis, which is certainly known in legal circles, that over-detailed and inaccessible, in a way, casuistic regulation removes the media from the understanding, creative and fundamental application of the law. I believe that all of this has contributed to ensuring that procedural legislation is transparent, simple and traceable, and that this also helps to facilitate enforceability and uniform case-law. Second, the scope of the proposal. The proposal excludes or significantly reduces the possibility of derogations from the actual general rules. Therefore, the general administrative order removes only a few procedures which are strictly based on principle. Such a so-called imposed procedure is the procedure for infringement, the electoral procedure, the close relationship with sovereignty, the refugee and foreign police and the citizenship procedure. In the light of the specific nature of the procedure also imposed, the tax administration procedure is similar to that of the European administrative procedural laws which are modelling. The category of so-called privileged and separate procedures is terminated, i.e. the general administrative order cannot be applied in any procedure on a subsidiary basis. Third, let's look at the different forms of procedure. The General Administrative Regulation lays down rules on several forms of procedure. A major innovation in the future is the introduction of a so-called so-called so-called procedural form, which was adopted by the government in spring 2015 in the framework of the proposal, but in the meantime, this legal institution is the CLXXXVI of 2015 on amendments to the law relating to administrative bureaucracy reduction. Law has already introduced it into the current procedural law, with a well-known abbreviation in the Ket. The main point of the procedure is that, if all the evidence necessary for the decision is available at the time of the application, the authority must take a decision immediately, but not later than 8 days. However, if the authority finds that the conditions for making a decision do not exist, it shall provide in an order for the necessary procedural acts to be carried out as a full procedure in accordance with the general rules. Thus, in all proceedings, it is an obligation that, if the client provides all the necessary information, his case should be dealt with in a short time, even immediately. In addition, in the context of the reform of electronic administration, an automatic decision-making procedure is introduced, which can also be considered as a specific case for the sombre procedure, in which case the authority will have to take a decision within one day. These forms of procedure are a great relief for customers in their simple matters, in particular with regard to documents and registers. As of 1 January 2016, the institution of the so-called contingent decision was also introduced in the current Ket., which the general administrative order seeks to clarify on the basis of the experience of the institution and, as an alternative to that, in certain cases, without a decision with suspensive effect, allows the full procedure to be carried out. According to the general administrative procedure, the authority has to take a decision with suspensive effect within 8 days and it must have an amount corresponding to the levy or fee payable for the conduct of the proceedings, failing that, the payment by a client of HUF 10 000, the legal aid of the client and the right to exercise the right applied for. However, the general administrative order also specifies the scope of procedures where no decision of contingent effect can be taken, typically procedures not falling within the competence of the notary and not the district or government office. [[In the notary seat István Ikotity will be replaced by Nándor Gúr.]] Fourth point: the proposal seeks to break with the question of the administrative deadline, with doubts as to how the general administrative time limit will be reduced. The current general procedural period of 21 days cannot be further reduced in a reasonable manner and, given the time-frame of the procedural acts of the public authorities and the time-limits which cannot be included in the time-limit, it would be an appearance solution. On the other hand, the proposal lays down a time limit for gross service under which the case must be closed by a substantive decision. As a general rule, 60 days would be available to the authority, from which only the default of the client, the duration of the fulfilment of the obligation imposed on it by the authority and the suspension of the reasoned decision, as well as the suspension, could be an exception, in order to forward the case, regardless of the time-limit calculation method, to the decision. The administrative deadline for the procedure and the automatic decision-making procedure is shorter than that, in the former case eight days and in the latter case one day. [[13.50]] The following are ways of cooperating with the authorities. The reform of the territorial administration, in particular the integration of the metropolitan and county government offices, will allow the introduction of alternative solutions in addition to the administrative procedure that can be considered a general model of cooperation between authorities. In order to make procedures that assume the involvement of many authorities more effective, the proposal lays down rules to encourage cooperation between authorities. Today, the customer-friendly development of a number of interlinked procedures is unsolved, and the proposal therefore envisages the introduction of a specific form of procedure that would facilitate the effective one-stop-shop method by designating a High Authority. This is the so-called related procedural form. The associated main authority, acting in a procedural form, shall obtain and facilitate the official decisions necessary to comply with the client's request from the other authorities concerned. For example, after the birth of a child, it would be enough for the parent to contact only one authority to receive his child's birth certificate, address card, tax card, or even to use family support benefits. I am convinced that, as a result, the real one-stop shop for a wide spectrum of cases can already be implemented in Hungary. Let's look at the changes in the redress system. On the issue of the redress system, the law set out a major change, which is deeply linked to the completion of administrative justice. Accordingly, the rules governing the remedies of the general administrative procedure should be read together with the administrative procedure, since the two laws will ensure a smooth legal protection. According to data relating to administrative procedures, customers appeal in the small number of cases - on average less than 0.5 per cent. In a large part of these cases, however, some 20 percent of the clients also seek judicial redress, so a significant proportion of the appeals are brought before the courts. The proposal therefore envisages a change of focus in order to ensure that the interests of the final decision, which can no longer be challenged, are enforced as soon as possible on the material legal force resulting from the judicial decision. It makes the possibility of direct access to the court a main rule and, in exceptional cases, allows the appeal to a higher level of administrative authority before the court is sued. I note that a third of the types of administrative authority were previously excluded from appeal. This ratio will be increased by changing the approach of the proposal to the redress system, taking into account the reasonable framework for ensuring the possibility of an appeal. However, in the context of the absence of an appeal as a rule, provision should be made for cases not to be brought before the administrative court which do not require a judicial decision in substance or in which the authority is able to correct its own faulty decision. Therefore, as is the case in the case of appeals, it must be ensured that, on the basis of an application against the decision, the authority which took the decision itself examines it in substance and remedys the infringement itself. In addition, sectoral legislation may provide for the possibility of appeal. The following, ladies and gentlemen, allow me now to move on to the bill on administrative litigation. The question of administrative justice is over a century and a half in Hungary. The debate started in the second half of the 1800s on what it would be like to have judicial control over public administration. Győző Concha, Elek Boér, István Egyed - to name just a few of the founding fathers - then János Martonyi Sr., later Lajos Szamel, Ferenc Toldi, Attila Rácz and Géza Klényi, who saw it in the socialist period, knew that the extent and form of administrative judicial action was the issue of the rule of law. There are also a number of honourable Members who, after the change of regime, believed that administrative justice could not be regarded as a tolerated institution. However, the change of regime has not brought about a breakthrough in the development of the institution. Even though the publications were the simplest solution, the policy chose the faceless solution by modifying several pieces of legislation and thus the weightless solution. Nor has it been good that the forum systems have been constantly changing and that the characteristics of administrative justice have not been revealed. I believe that this can be seen in the prestige of the institution. On the other hand, if we look at the Latin or German form of administrative justice, we can see that these courts have been able to make a major contribution to the development of public administration science. In Hungary, administrative judges who are very high-level judges are dedicated, yet administrative justice has not been able to catch up with the developed Western European countries in this area. What is the reason for this? Allow me to say this in a few words. As I pointed out in my introduction, the socialist period in Hungary has broken the traditions of public justice. The scheme intended to be temporary in 1991 still exists to this day. The second is that at the theoretical level, the function of administrative jurisdiction has not been clarified. Whether the provision of objective protection of rights should be either the provision of the subjective protection of the seeker or the possible combination of the two. Nor has it been clarified what the decision of the public administration to give legal effect is when it does not take the form of a decision. But there is also a lack of clarity in the scope of government acts. The theoretical and legal debates on certain corner points were cancelled in 1991, and later only non-system solutions could be considered. [[In the notary seat Dr. István Tiba will be replaced by József Attila Móring.]] This relates to the fact that Hungary has not had a separate administrative order in its history, so today, when the administrative order has been completed without prior history, it should be regarded as necessary to complete the system of administrative judicial action. The importance of administrative justice is invaluable for the proper functioning of the rule of law, in the words of a German lawyer: the closing stone of the vault of the rule of law. I would just like to note that when the law on administrative jurisdiction was passed in 1896, about 50 percent of it laid down procedural rules. The aim of the administrative order is therefore no less than to establish a system of independent and uniform administrative litigation in accordance with the provisions of the Fundamental Law of Hungary, implementing them, in line with international practice and expectations, ensuring effective judicial protection and a swift and focused assessment of administrative litigation. In the context of the change in the system, the system of administrative jurisdiction has therefore not been established in a conceptual way, and the closing stone of the vault of the rule of law is still lacking. He acknowledged this in the ministerial exposé of István Balsai himself in 1991. I would like to quote him on the following:.. We would therefore like to carry out judicial control in the normal courts' organizational framework. And if the powers of administrative justice were to be further broadened in the way outlined earlier, it would seem appropriate to review this decision and to try again to resolve administrative matters in the framework of a more optimal organisational structure. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Because of the lack of answers to conceptual questions, it was essentially the view of the legal system that administrative litigation was just a special civil suit. Today, however, almost all European countries have laws on administrative litigation, which confirm that administrative litigation is a specific area which should be regulated by a separate law. [[President Tamás Sneider, Vice-President of the National Assembly.]] Practical experience has also shown that the regulation of administrative litigation in civil order is not capable of ensuring the full judicial protection required by the constitutional principles of the rule of law and the division of power, as well as by European law. Recognizing this, this debt to the regime change is to be repaid by the government on 1011/2015. In its decision of the Government, it authorised the development of the concept of administrative order. At its meeting on 13 May 2015, the Government discussed and adopted a report on the concept of administrative procedure and published in the Official Journal of the European Union (No 1352/2015). In its decision of the Government, he called on the Minister of Justice to present a proposal with the participation of the Committee on Administrative Procedure Codification, in which both the professional orders and the representatives of science applying administrative litigation took place. [[14.00]] Special thanks to all those involved in this work. The guiding principle of codification work was the broadest possible enforcement of the principle of effective legal protection. This means, on the one hand, ensuring that there is no gap in the protection of the law, so that violations of the law caused by the public administration can be brought to justice regardless of the form of action by the public administration, and that procedural rules are put in place to examine the legality of acts and actions. Therefore, it is not the name that matters, but whether an action has legal effect or has no legal effect. In order to ensure the effectiveness of legal protection, we also need rules that create gun equality. In many cases, the rights and obligations of the parties and, in this context, the role of the court must be determined differently from that of civil litigation. It is very important that legal protection is effective in time. There is a need for rules that allow for more focused litigation and provide as many possibilities as possible for final settlement by the court. At the same time, a second or third administrative procedure should be avoided. The creation of a single and autonomous administrative code of conduct does not replace the transformation of the organisation required within the judicial system and the introduction of new administrative and administrative solutions, and can have a positive impact only with them. The Ministry of Justice has prepared its proposal on these rules concerning the organisation system and is currently conducting political consultations with the representatives of the parliamentary parties. However, the effectiveness of the consultations is without prejudice to the need to adopt administrative litigation rules. Ladies and Gentlemen, Dear Parliament, Allow me to briefly summarise the most important features of the administrative procedure. I will address seven issues: general clause, differentiated allocation of powers, procedure in the council, non-court proceedings, timeliness, agreement, mediation and a new remedy. General clause. As President of the Supreme Administrative Court in 1930, Gyula Wlassics said that, if even the image of the far future is that the content administrative affairs come directly to public administration without taxing on a principle basis, but in any case this will be the end of the development of administrative jurisdiction. This far future seems to have come 86 years later. One of the most important changes in the proposal is the broadening of the judicial path. The General Clause provides a flexible framework for achieving seamless legal protection. The majority of administrative acts can still be challenged before a court, and the general clause creates the possibility for administrative litigation rules to be regulated in a code. This requires the establishment of a system of litigation in which various types of litigation are institutionalised. In addition to the attack lawsuits currently governed by the civil order to examine individual decisions, the Rules of Procedure contain rules of legal law in separate chapters on default proceedings, public body supervisory proceedings or martial proceedings. In connection with the latter, there is also a need for rules on litigation that allow the administration to deal with lawsuits relating to administrative law in which it acts not as a defendant but as a plaintiff, which is primarily in contractual and public relations. Differential allocation of powers. It is important to introduce a differentiated set of powers already included in the draft in criminal and civil judgment. Based on the weight, complexity and frequency of cases, it is necessary to share first instance powers between administrative courts. In the first instance, matters of major importance are brought before a higher court forum, the Administrative Supreme Court. In this context, the draft lists administrative actions relating to the activities of public authorities acting with national jurisdiction and not under ministry control, administrative proceedings relating to the exercise of the right of assembly, public bodies litigation and certain electoral disputes currently related to the referee, i.e. those relating to the referee. The deployment of these cases to a higher judicial forum provides an opportunity to specialise, thereby increasing and speeding up the professional level of the case-law. In addition to its first instance powers, the Supreme Court would have exclusive jurisdiction to deal with appeals proceedings relating to decisions of administrative courts. Let's look at the procedure in the council. In order to increase professionalism, the draft restores the priority of the procedure in the Council, but also takes into account the different weight of cases. The draft therefore allows, by regulating the original single-judge powers, for the purpose of acting on a differentiated basis in the case of certain categories of minor cases, a single judge, while allowing the Council to order the case to be referred to the single-judge, under appropriate conditions. Placing non-court proceedings into a court order as a simplified lawsuit. The category of administrative non-court proceedings is triggered by simplified lawsuits and other special court proceedings in the course of the proceedings, as well as due to full litigation and deregulation. This also strengthens the guarantees of a fair trial. For the same reasons, the rules of the rules on the control of local government regulations are also placed in the rules of procedure, which removes a number of procedural deficiencies that slow down procedures. Timeliness. It is intended to improve the effectiveness of time, on the one hand, to establish a differentiated system of immediate protection instruments based on current judicial practice and, on the other, to limit the reference to new facts and evidence in order to ensure that the primary place for determining the facts is the pre-trial procedure of the public administration. It's a deal, it's a mediation in the administrative lawsuit. The establishment of specific rules for a court settlement also serves time efficiency in administrative litigation. In the course of the settlement, the parties agree not on the legality of the administrative activity, but on the possible solutions to remedy the legal harm caused and, in particular, harm to interests. It's a new system of redress. The rules of procedure also establish a new system of redress. It provides for an ordinary appeal against the Court's decision at first instance, and a number of judgments and orders may be challenged by appeal. In addition to ordinary litigation, the court order also includes extraordinary redress procedures, review and revision of lawsuits. It also settles proceedings following an effective constitutional complaint in relation to litigation. In typical cases, in accordance with the general rules of administrative procedure and of administrative procedures, procedures of at least three degrees are already in place together with the ordinary remedy and, in the event of an appeal, of four degrees are already in place in the official proceedings. In view of this, in view of the practice of the Constitutional Court, the review procedure requires the Curia to accept the request for review only in cases where it is justified by a deviation from the published practice of the Curia or its decision as a legal unit or by the need for a preliminary ruling. However, the importance of the Curia will not be reduced, it will not only be a review forum, as it will also be within its competence to deal with appeals against decisions taken by the Administrative Supreme Court. The legal institution of the Jumping Appeal also serves as a legal uniter. Ladies and Gentlemen, Dear Parliament, To conclude, I would like to emphasise that in the process of developing public administration in the autumn of 2010, we are trying to meet the social and economic need for a service administration with new priorities and new ideas. The present reform of the rules of the general administrative procedure and administrative judicial procedure ensuring the legal functioning of the public administration is intended to respond to these objectives, including expectations, to the idea of a modern, serviced state, which is highly based on the experience of law enforcement. Together, the two legislative proposals aim to ensure the consistency of the ex ante and ex post legal protection already mentioned in the introduction and to compensate for decades of failure to regulate administrative litigation. As a closing point, as I began with the words of Ágos Pulszky, I would like to close my expoze with them:. But the determination of the normal conduct of the adminisztráció presumably assumes the proper management of the entire government, the power and force of the entire government, and therefore - house - whatever the weight we want to create in this respect, we must always consider two. [[14.10]] First of all, so that this institution does not stand in the way, or even facilitates, the validity of the public administration, and, secondly, that we should take close account not only of the profession of this institution, but also of all the effects it exerts on the public administration throughout the administrative judiciary, on the effect that, as I said, can be very dangerous, can be very paralysing, but it can also be such that it improves and regulates the administrative procedure. In fact, where the corresponding institutions have been correctly put in place, it is always the experience that this regulatory operation is the one on which the most weight should actually be put... The weight in the clockwork, which works, the power represented by the spring, is represented here by the power of administration; the determination, the will that prevails in the administration, the government. And the regulatory aspect is represented by the right to retain which we must create institutions to ensure, but in such a way that they never hang the movement of the machinery. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. In the light of these words, the Ministry of Justice prepared the two legislative proposals which will be presented to the Honourable Parliament. These proposals are widely agreed and well prepared professional materials, which I ask this House to discuss and adopt. Thank you to all the colleagues, judges, prosecutors, lawyers, representatives of science who have participated in this work. Thank you very much for your attention. I can respond to what has been said when the general debate is concluded. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2016-10-11-74	Welcome, fellow Members. Now we're going to hear the speeches from the lead speaker. First, I give the floor to Member Robert Répássy, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group.
u2016-10-11-75	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Dear tableds, Before discussing the legislative proposals before us, I would like to quote Hungary's Fundamental Law. Everyone has the right to be dealt with impartially, fairly and within a reasonable time. Everyone has the right to appeal against a judicial, administrative and other decision which violates his or her right or legitimate interest. These two basic legislative provisions serve as a standard in administrative procedures and, of course, in other official procedures, which ensures that all citizens in Hungary will be treated fairly. The two legislative proposals before us fully comply with Hungary's basic laws, and I therefore support the adoption of the legislative proposals on behalf of the Fidesz parliamentary group. Dear House, The administrative procedure, the administrative procedure, the administrative court order, the administrative judicature related concepts, but separate legislative objects, the Parliament regulates these issues in separate laws. I would like to point out that the organisation of the administrative court is not part of the agenda that we have just discussed. It is true that the issue of administrative jurisdiction is closely related to the legislative objects before us, but the government is currently negotiating any amendments to the organisation of the administrative court with the factions represented in Parliament. However, despite the fact that the organisation of the administrative court is not part of the agenda we are discussing, I suspect that this is what the political debate will be about; this will be about us, in particular the organisation of the administrative court. But I must disappoint you, because the most serious accusation that is made in this House in relation to administrative judicial action, or has been made elsewhere, is based on a mistake, because the questions of jurisdiction of the administrative court, whether politically sensitive matters are before the administrative court or other court, these questions are not matters governed by a fundamental law, so they are not part of the debate on the organisation of the administrative court, which issues are covered by the administrative court. This can be debated, but this is not the regulatory object of the law on the organisation of an administrative court or the regulatory object of this law. Dear House, Anyone who has listened carefully to the Minister of Justice's exposé, there is no doubt that we are faced with draft laws that strengthen the rule of law and widen the judicial review of administrative matters. In this House, we have heard several times in recent years the term 'good state', which, together with good administration, is a rule of law standard, a rule of law criterion to which modern law states are generally all subject. Thus, good administration is part of the rule of law as a professional activity for citizens and as an activity under democratic control. From this point of view, I am examining the legislative proposals before us. Dear House, In the draft law on administrative procedures, I would like to highlight the new solutions that guarantee the strengthening of the good state, good administration and the rule of law mentioned above. Moreover, the General Administrative Procedure Act includes rules that are common to all proceedings. It is therefore of guarantee importance that the possibility of a derogation from the general rules will be much narrower in the future than is currently the case under the rules in force. Thus, the concept of the law is a regulation in which the general guarantees are applied in most proceedings, and almost without exception in all proceedings, and only exceptional conditions can arise in which simpler solutions can be applied. But the general procedural guarantees will apply to all administrative procedures. As a result, shorter, simpler and more enforceable legislation is the bill before us. I must say first of all here about the somma procedure mentioned by the Minister. The essence of the non-compliance procedure is that, if all the evidence necessary for the decision is available at the time the application is submitted, the authority must take a decision immediately and within 8 days at the latest. Obviously, we can assume that this is not always the case, but if the facts are clear to the authority, if the evidence necessary for the decision is available, the maximum time limit for administration cannot be used. In such cases, a decision should be taken as quickly as possible, since this is in the legitimate interest of both the public administration and the client. The role and weight of the client's statement will increase in the future. In some cases, the client's statement may become a primary means of proof in the absence of evidence contrary to the declaration. We often admire countries where the principle of declaration is so strong that no other facts can be established until the client's statement is resolved. In some Anglo-Saxon countries, even administrative matters are dealt with on the basis of them, so the client's statement is a priority. This may not be the absolute extent of the customer's statement in the future, but the client's statement will be strengthened as primary evidence. The next point to be highlighted is the strengthening of cooperation between authorities. The draft lays down rules to encourage the cooperation of public authorities. The so-called ancillary procedure is a new, well-known way of cooperating public authorities to better serve and relieve customers in a series of interrelated cases. [[14.20]] We know the phenomenon that, in many cases, customers requesting public administration do not understand that, if all participants are already present in the procedure, all talents are available, then why not take care of his multiple cases and related cases. This draft provides for this possibility and even suggests that related interrelated cases should be dealt with in a related procedure. The Minister also highlighted the re-regulation of the administrative deadline. Here I would just like to confirm that the general administration deadline for 30 days has now been 21 days, compared to the 30-day general administration deadline that we have had for decades. However, this administrative deadline cannot be further reduced. Compared to this, the bill sets an absolute deadline when it specifies in 60 days the date within which the client's case must be dealt with. The rules on children, persons with disabilities and persons who are not fully able to act will be significantly expanded and more emphasis will be placed in the law. Among the Authority's decisions, I would like to highlight the broadening of the so-called simplified decisions. Any such simplified decision is intended to enable both the public administration and the client to deal with the matter sooner and to obtain the public administration service sooner. Of course, the conditions for this simplified decision are laid down by law for warranty reasons. I would like to highlight the adaptation of the redress system which the Minister has also analysed for a long time. The draft contains a fundamental change of focus and makes the possibility of direct access to the court a main rule, thus excluding appeal in administrative proceedings; in exceptional cases, it would allow for an appeal before the court is sued. So I would like to stress it, and that is why I have claimed that anyone who has listened carefully to the expo and is familiar with the proposal may experience the fact that, according to the proposal, judicial review is becoming general. So the independent, law-established, impartial court will carry out the judicial control of the executive authority in these matters, and this is a general opportunity for customers from now on. In very exceptional cases, judicial review may be excluded. Indeed, they can teach law students only a few examples at the university, and constitutional guarantees also apply in cases that are pre-arranged from the possibility of an out-of-court review. The judicial remedy is therefore significantly broadened, and the bill ensures that, on the basis of the application against the decision, the authority which made the decision itself examines it in substance and corrects the unlawful decision itself. So while the bill is seeking, and even expressly states that the rule of law in public administration proceedings in the future is that there is no appeal, it is possible to go straight to court, while this is the rule, while allowing and even ensuring the law to remedy the decision itself. If you believe, on the basis of the application, that, on the basis of the submission of the client to the court, the administrative body considers that the application is justified, that the client's objection is justified, then it is not necessary to wait for the court procedure, but to remedy the infringement itself. Dear House, Turning to the issues of administrative litigation, I would also like to highlight the most important innovations. As I have already said, the most important innovation is the expansion of the judicial path itself through the definition of the so-called "generic clause" of the administrative dispute. This general clause will define the possibility of a smooth legal protection in administrative matters. Therefore, there is no case in which any remedy or review would not be available, whether by the public administration or by recourse to a judicial forum or a judicial forum. A major innovation in the proposal is that since administrative matters are rather complex and since the possibility of recourse to a court becomes general, it is therefore necessary to share first instance powers between administrative courts according to the weight, complexity and frequency of the cases. Once again, I would like to reiterate, in case someone has forgotten what I said about the question of powers, so that everything that comes before the administrative court is not the subject of the fundamental law. The cardinal law deals with questions relating to judicial and judicial organisations. Thus, the allocation of powers and the distribution of first instance powers between administrative courts will take place according to professional specialisation. In addition, the proposal envisages the establishment of a higher administrative court. The reason for this is purely professional; it is a purely professional step, supported exclusively by the judiciary, in this bill, and more specifically in the legal proposal's review forum. The establishment of a higher administrative court satisfies the need for cases requiring special expertise to belong to a higher judicial forum. It supports this special expertise and the complexity of the cases, and rather serves this, which is also the priority of the procedure in the Council in the law. Let me make so many comments that, of course, it is worth considering that certain more complex matters are matters, whether in civil law or in criminal law, also before a judicial council. It will be worth considering the proportionality of cases someday. It would be unfortunate if the procedure in the administrative procedure in a Chamber would not apply to civil or criminal matters where the procedure in the Chamber could also be justified. I don't want to go into this right now, because it's not the subject of this law, how much benefit a civil case or a criminal case could have had it discussed in court. Dear House, One or two more innovations I would like to talk about: strengthening the power to change. In the future, the administrative court can change it to a greater extent - in fact, that it can change it at all, in itself, by changing the decision to violate the law, so far it has been exceptional in the administrative case. In the future, this will not be general, but it will be a greater opportunity for the judge to change the law-breaking administrative decision, thus facilitating the swift and final settlement of the dispute. Let us not forget that it is in the client's interest here that, if the judge can make the decision, we should be less sensitive to the aspects of the separation of the judicial branch and the executive authority; the judge makes the decision that is lawful and that is in the client's interest. We've already talked about the revision of the redress system. I would like to note here that the first instance of administrative action fulfils all the criteria of the constitutional right to appeal, as well as the requirement for independent and impartial treatment. Thus, the innovation that the possibility of recourse to an administrative court will be general guarantees both the right to appeal and the requirement for independent and impartial treatment. [[14.30]] In itself, this option guarantees several constitutional rights for customers. However, redress - so the appeal against the judicial judgment, let us say simply - can be narrowed down, but there is no constitutional basis for attacking the judicial decision at another judicial forum. A specific issue is the review, which would remain the responsibility of the Curia, since the Curia is basically the guardian of the unity of law and case-law, so to speak. Therefore, the Curia may accept the request for review if it is justified to examine an infringement of the law which affects the substance of the case because of a judgment order other than the Curia's published case-law or unit of law, or because of the need for a preliminary ruling of the Court of Justice of the European Union. Dear House, One last sentence: in the future, the rules of the rules governing the regulation of the local government will be laid down in the rules of procedure, which also eliminates a number of procedural deficiencies that slow down the procedure. Dear House, To sum up, therefore, our position: the two legislative proposals can be supported because they increase the scope of constitutional guarantees, extend the possibility of judicial review in the public administration, and we believe that good administration is the legal administration, the good administration is what is controlled by the wider judicial control. That's why I'm asking you to accept the two billings. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2016-10-11-76	Thank you for your speech. I now give the floor to Gergely Bárándy, the lead speaker of the MSZP group.
u2016-10-11-77	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, It was not long ago that we discussed the new draft law on civil procedure, a new code, and in that debate we took it very seriously, we prepared for the debate, and I gave a nearly 30-minute keynote speech. I'm not gonna hold this much right now, not because these two laws before us are less important. To show the significance of this, I specifically asked my expert colleagues to do so for me, of course, but especially for the other Members who did not know these two laws at such a depth, to prepare a very detailed professional annotation and executive summary - here in my hand [[He's showing it to me.]] This took place in some 20 pages - so that we could really take part in this debate in a competent way. However, we regret that it is the Minister's custom to say in the debate of important codes what he has to say, his exposé, and then leave the Chamber without waiting for the opinion of the parties, the opinion of the lead speakers. I suppose it's not a private matter, it's a public matter, but either he doesn't take Parliament seriously, and it violates his authority, or the government doesn't let him take Parliament seriously and doesn't insult his authority. It is not possible, ladies and gentlemen, for a minister to come in here and say his expo and leave without listening to the views of the parties and the opinions of the lead speakers. That is why I do not consider this debate worthy of discussing detailed rules in my speech to Parliament. And I would also like to predict that the faction of the MSZP will stay away from this debate, if our opinion does not interest the government, to be honest, it is reciprocating, not the government's. On the other hand, I would like to note - and I have a substantive debate here, which is why I will also make my comment short - that I do not share the position that, by the way, Mr Répássy argued on a professional basis, that, in fact, these two codes would not have anything to do with the unsubmitted draft law aimed at creating two-thirds, polar and administrative courts. Ladies and gentlemen, Perhaps we should first define the structure of which we would like to establish the rules of procedure now, and not vice versa, a structure that has not yet been decided, since it is in a five-party agreement, the government has not decided that it would like to see this, and we are adapting the detailed rules now. I think that the process should have been reversed, because it's like, let's say, we're trying to define the detailed rules of a sports tournament in such a way that it's not even decided what track we're playing on, it's not decided whether it's small or very, grassy or clayy, covered or outdoors. I think that until it is decided whether there will be an administrative court or not, there is absolutely no point in discussing what the detailed rules of the administrative procedure are. So there's a package of laws ahead of us right now that lacks organizational legs. We know that, and we obviously have to mention here - others have done so, with a very different tone, I will also have a different tone - that the government has planned to set up administrative courts, which - I repeat - negotiations are in progress, but there is a good chance that there will be no two-thirds support for this. Well, ladies and gentlemen, if we did not have the two-thirds support for this, and this was decided, we should have tabled the two legislative proposals before us in a different way. If you do, because you consider that you can obtain two-thirds support, which seems unlikely now, then you should have submitted these proposals again with a different text. There is no A-, B-version, such an alternative, that in the end we accept the one that matches the political situation that has emerged. That's absurd. I don't know how long it's been since I've seen it in my ten years of representation. And, of course, my point of content is that for our part - and this is an important circumstance, obviously each party will state its own position on this - we still do not support the setting up of administrative courts. We do not support it because the model that you are proposing to us, and what you have presented to us, in effect, allows you to parachute your own people from public administration to judge, not to become judges in a moment - in a way other than the general system - and thus seriously damage the independence of justice. I don't want to repeat what Pp does. I said in his debate that I continue to hold it, and we consider it another pro-government, fidesz attack against judicial independence. The problem is not - and I would like to make that clear - that there could be no justification for administrative courts, but not in this way. And if you look at this structure, I can only repeat one thing: we do not trust you, we do not trust the power, we do not trust that the people from public administration are not going to be those who are the most loyal civil servants, government officials you have brought into the system, who you have formed in your own image. We do not trust that these people will not be the vast majority of administrative judges. Therefore, in my view, it is not possible to support this model. There are a number of provisions in the proposals that are now being put before us that are worthy of consideration. In fact, we can argue, for example, about what is more fortunate if the administrative procedure is two or one, and the judicial procedure becomes two-degree in administrative matters. This is a legitimate professional debate, and this could be discussed, but in order to be able to talk about it, once again, it would be necessary to see the structure, what you think about and what you would like to do in Hungary's administrative affairs in the future. I'd like to remove one misconception before I finish my comment. Ladies and gentlemen, There is administrative jurisdiction today, and the Minister has also confirmed this in his expozee when he said that there is, only today it is part of the judicial system, and according to the new model, this would give him a certain degree of independence in the future. So the fact that we are replacing or replacing a new administrative court system that is causing problems in today's Hungarian justice and administration does not hold up. You are thinking of a different structure, otherwise this task is still being performed by the labour and administrative courts today. [[14.40]] That is why, ladies and gentlemen, I ask you to present detailed rules when we are already aware of the structure, when it is decided what you want, and not least what you can carry through Parliament. I think that this debate should be opened afterwards. The only right option now would be to withdraw these two draft laws until this is resolved, and then, when it is decided, they will clearly bring them back to Parliament on the basis of that structure, and then it may and should be worth a longer professional debate on this. Once again, ladies and gentlemen, the attitude that the Minister is now taking in this Parliament with regard to the third serious code, we find it unacceptable and outrageous, which is why we are not taking part in the debate at any further stage. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2016-10-11-78	Thank you. I now give the floor to György Rubovszky, the lead speaker of the KDNP Group.
u2016-10-11-79	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Allow me, I am very sorry that Congressman Barándy is leaving because I wanted to answer him [[István Tukacs: That's the way it is, Mr. President.]] I'll let you take a look at it from the record. I can't tell you anything else. It is not my place to defend the Minister's departure, but I would like to stress that today's debate is only about the main speakerial round, and then it will continue at some point, and I have not found the date of the sequel on the agenda, which will give the Minister the opportunity to hear the views of the parties from the parliamentary diary that appears. But it's not exactly like that. On September 2nd, the Ministry of Justice held a five-party meeting, or rather called together. The subject of the five-party consultation was the current two laws and the third law on the organisation of administrative judicial proceedings. It is clear that today there are twenty administrative and labour courts in the country, because each county court has one of these, despite the fact that the total number of annual lawsuits in the whole country is about 15 thousand lawsuits. Now, that doesn't give us the opportunity to make the 15,000 lawsuits a proper specialization of the administrative court in the vicinity of 20 courts. I am very sorry that the invitation to negotiate on 2 September was not accepted by the MSZP and did not come and make a statement. I have to say so much about this negotiation, as I said, the three laws were the subject of this negotiation, that everyone in the three laws was only asking questions about the restructuring of the court, according to the announced opinions, no one had a problem with the two laws, the general procedure and the rules of procedure that we are discussing now. There is no doubt that the two laws before us are based on the adoption of the third law in a single system. But if you observe sufficiently the material that every MP receives, the information where the adoption of individual laws is scheduled, you will see that the final vote of these two laws will await the law on the revision of the judicial proceedings, because if it dies completely, then obviously substantial subsequent amendments will have to be tabled to this, because this is how it hangs in the air. At the moment, there are no administrative appeals, no superior courts, and there are countless other questions. The fear that Congressman Bárándy expressed is, in my view, unfounded. If I remember the bill correctly, although this is not the subject of today's debate, but since it has been said, I am obliged to reflect on it, it would create seven regional courts of the current twenty administrative courts on the territory of the country, namely that those who today are the judges of the administrative court and decide that they will continue to pursue the task in the future can automatically go to the new regional administrative court, which gives them the opportunity to be more focused on administrative litigation in that court, and the preparedness of judges could be higher. All the more so, because the two procedural laws themselves point out that, I put it this way, that instead of the general right of appeal, general judicial review comes in. It is a very important question that the question of whether judges should be able to make a meaningful decision and not only to return them to the first instance by establishing an infringement, but also the possibility of this substantial extension is very important. I would also like to highlight from the subject, regardless of administrative jurisdiction, what is very sympathetic to me is what the government is constantly exercising in public administration, namely that it wants to narrow down procedures and that administrative deadlines at government windows are significantly reduced. It is very important in this procedure to sue for sommy or sommy proceedings. And here's a very important thing: basically, this sommy procedure rules out civic alibi, which means that they're filing an application, they know it's incomplete, but they're referring to the fact that they put it up, and then they know it can't be arranged. So in this sometic procedure, they are very soon given the evidence that must be provided in order for this procedure to take place; this is the negative example. The positive example - and I believe that 99 percent of the population live by it, because it is in their normal interest to have common sense - is to prepare a complete substance and to shorten their procedure very much with complete material. Dear Parliament, What I would like to say is that the judicial procedure is at the moment, if I remember the dates correctly, that last week, Tuesday morning, the experts of the parties sat down for discussion, and this week, Friday, politicians reconvene. [[14.50]] Then, hopefully, the question that would be resolved by reconstructing the judicial process will be resolved, which I think would be a positive thing in all circumstances, because we could separate the administration from the case of work, focus on the districts, and I say, this 15,000 procedure would be professionally effective every year if a specialised judge could assess it. With all due respect, I ask that the current two laws tabled be supported by this House. I would like to add, as I said, that at the five-party hearing, I recall that no one had tabled an objection to these two legislative proposals, all of which relate to court proceedings. That is why the Ministry has separated me, for which I am grateful, because, knowing Hungarian legislation, the month of November-December is usually a terribly busy time. If we can carry out the preparatory debates of these two legislative proposals in time, we will not create crowdedness by the end of the year. In view of this, I consider the procedure that is going on to be very appropriate. We are in favour of the two legislative proposals tabled, and we will be very sorry if, due to the failure of the third bill, this should be changed, because this unity, which has been presented with the three legislative proposals, after a very long period of time, would have finally put administrative justice in its proper place. Thank you so much for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of Fidesz.]]
u2016-10-11-80	Thank you. Now it's time for the Jobbik Group. The Group has indicated that two will speak as keynote speakers. First, I give the floor to Congressman Csaba Gyure.
u2016-10-11-81	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, We actually have two laws ahead of us right now, but maybe it'd be better if we had three. This has already been indicated by the Members who spoke before me, and everyone has pointed out that this three-legged chair is still missing one leg. My fellow Member, György Rubovszky, said in his speech to the speaker that the two legislative proposals that lie before us were not attacked by anyone during the previous five-party agreements and negotiations. It's true, it's true, it wasn't an attack. But why wasn't there? It wasn't because the three laws form one unity for us, as I believe for everyone. My fellow Member, György Rubovszky, said that this is a unit, and that these two legislative proposals were submitted earlier, but that he will probably wait for the third proposal from the point of view of the decision, as it is a unit. What are these three laws? What lies before us now is the general administrative statute, the Akr. The administrative court order that is now in front of us, and what is still lacking, is the bill on amendments to the establishment of administrative court. Why does this form a unit? I think it's all based on the bill that's been left out today. It is all based on whether it will be adopted, whether it will be agreed or not during the five-party negotiations, because we know that this restructuring requires a two-thirds majority, but it is not certain that it is currently going through, because at least one opposition faction would need support to go through it. We have our problems most of the time. Of course, we may be able to talk about the rules of procedure or procedure separately, but I think it doesn't make much sense that we didn't accept the basic concept: is this going to happen or isn't going to happen? Is the new administrative court system set up in Hungary or does this system not stand up? There are very different views on this. At the beginning of the five-party negotiations, we stated that we are not categorical opponents of having administrative jurisdiction in Hungary, but we cannot fully accept the reasons that the government has said. At the moment, I feel - and this is what Minister Trócsányi's exposé has shown me - that the current system of administrative judicial justice is described by the government and is not satisfied, and he already considers it to be wrong. The arguments that are written everywhere in this regard say that specialized judges are needed, who negotiate only a kind of groups of cases, discuss groups of cases in which professionals, in which they are very professionally involved, are very well aware of the problems that occur in their field of expertise. In the comment of the National Court Office on this, there is a very interesting sentence, which says that the Ministry of Justice does not actually know the method of the current administrative jurisdiction, when it puts this on our table and does not know its system, as administrative jurisdiction is still excellent in Hungary. As has been said, twenty courts are indeed competent - one can argue whether there are many of the twenty courts - and 120 administrative judges, specialized in these twenty courts, are in charge of these matters. Thus, not the judges dealing with family law, not the judges dealing with criminal law, not the judges dealing with economic matters will be judged here, but those who specialize in family law have been specialised for a long time since the Parliament and the government implemented the reform of the previous administrative court when administrative and labour courts were set up, and this has certain advantages in relation to the current system. What are the benefits? That's why I don't know if we can be convinced that it's worth setting up this new system. There really are 20 administrative and labour courts now. And why is this system good? Because justice is much closer to the population, to the recipients. In the event that the number of first instance courts is narrowed to seven, it is necessary to move from certain counties to other counties, which means for a client that he will be forced to travel not 50 but 150 or 180 kilometres, which in many cases also means that this is impossible if a person does not have a car. A person who cannot manage to travel by car is doubtful whether one day he can travel back and forth by public transport. This therefore concerns an important principle, the principle of public access to justice. Another question is that the government puts it in the other pan of the balance sheet - not unduly - that if it is in fewer places, the judges are more specialised, they understand the field better. And it says here that the principle of quantity and quality conflict. I think, and the national court's observation, that it is not possible to reduce to seven the number of the courts that act, because according to the OBH, administrative jurisdiction in Hungary is still at a high level. The OBH President's comment also raises figures showing that the number of cases received in administrative and labour courts increased relatively significantly by 20 percent over three years compared to 2012. Compared to this, the backlog has decreased during this period, and even the remaining over two years has fallen to one third, which shows that the efficiency of work in administrative and labour courts has increased considerably over the past period. And the National Court Office also expresses its view that, on this basis, there is no need for a derogation from the system so far, the system so far can properly perform these tasks. Compared to this, we will not get the extra professionally, but we will certainly be able to decide that this system is indeed better. So, as we have said, we do not consider the establishment of an administrative court system to be evil, but we are not convinced by the government that this is indeed necessary. [[15.00]] And there is another reason why we also doubt whether it is worth supporting this government proposal. The general justification for the part of the lawsuit before us is very good, which states that the rule of law, the constitutional principles of the division of power and European law require these changes, the reregulation of the rules of procedure in the public administration. So what you're saying is you're referring to the constitutional principle of power-sharing. That's exactly my problem, and that's why I have a problem with this at the five-party meeting. Because the third law, which is not in front of us now, is the one about setting up a system of administrative courts, and there are the detailed rules that have an impact on the unity of all three laws. What am I thinking when I talk about it, and why am I talking about the principle of power sharing? That is because it is in principle included in the legislation that it would be appropriate to upload part of these courts from the public administration. In fact, the draft also delivers a quota for the upper administrative courts, and this quota is 50 percent. In fact, in principle, it is even possible that if we look at the lower administrative court, the first instance court, not the upper administrative court, that even a very large percentage, much more than 50 percent of the experts from the public administration are included in the judicial proceedings. Why is that a problem? We have had a lot of discussion about this, both at the five-party meeting and beyond, in the corridor, where it was said by the government, how good it is for the most professional people to be included, to sit in the judicial pulpit, and to be able to decide these matters professionally, because they have very special experience. That's what we heard on one side. While on the other hand, I say that there is the same professional experience with the current 120 administrative judges who currently operate in this area; they already have great experience. Why is it a problem if we suddenly, overnight, set a date and say that from 1 January 2018 administrative experts will sit on the judicial pulpit? Well, that's exactly where the general principle of power-sharing is damaged, which is mentioned in the bill. That is exactly what will not happen, since the executive power itself will change it overnight. Because on 31 December 2017, they will still be employees of the executive authority and from 1 January, they will be employees of the administrative court. So it is also possible that the executive authority is about to occupy the system of administrative justice overnight. And I'm telling you, there's a lot of danger in that. Here, the principle of power-sharing is fundamentally violated. I think this can, in principle, lead to a crisis in democratic values. We have had these serious debates during the five-party negotiations, and we have also been promised that there is indeed a change in this. What I have to worry about is that my fellow Member, Mr Répássy, has also highlighted and stressed that here, which is being negotiated today, these laws are 50 percent plus 1 laws, so there is no need for a two-thirds majority to be voted on. That's true. This is precisely the fear that, if the three laws are now adopted in a uniform way, then later or with a change of jurisdiction, which is 50 per cent plus 1, so in the case of a majority parliamentary decision, the traps that we are currently avoiding can be included in this law. But later, they will be reinstated, which we agree on in several parties, that they will not get in, that they can come in again at any time, and then, unfortunately, we will be standing in a very bad position, and indeed serious constitutional principles will be violated, and the fundamental democratic values in Hungary will be put at risk. So, in itself, there is a new administrative order, not a problem. Indeed, we could argue in detail rules about what should fall within the competence of the Administrative Upper Court, what is the jurisdiction of the Court of First Instance. We could argue on details, probably you'd let us do a lot of things. Only this is not the root of the problem, but in the court system; in whether there will be a court with a completely separate legal personality, there will be judges who will have a completely separate court status. They will not be subject to the same law, they will not receive the same salary, even if you now make a firm promise that this will be the case. But we can see it very well, and we know how in some cases they manage to get paid differently. I mean, they say there's wage savings here. Therefore, for example, we see now that, despite the same law on judges, the same law applies to prosecutors in terms of legal status, in terms of payment, the courts unfortunately do not have a budget, you say, so they cannot give you extras, while the prosecutor's office also has the 13th month, 14th month salary, even if it is not called that, but it is called clothing money, they will call it Elizabeth's voucher, accommodation voucher and other. But they still get it all together. You can do that in these courts, too, if you're set up. Come on. These are the points that my fellow Member Bárándy has said that trust is not in the six and a half years of experience so far. Therefore, we now see that we cannot support these legislative proposals. Thank you very much for your attention. [[It's a rare applause in the ranks of the Jobbik.]]
u2016-10-11-82	Thank you. We now give the floor to Congressman Gábor Staudt.
u2016-10-11-83	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, I will continue from where my fellow Member Csaba Gyüre left off. Even more so, because it is not a good practice to bring some parts of a package here, and with reference to the fact that there are no serious problems in this - but this is only partly true, as there have been major problems in this, but they can still be solved before the Parliament - they think that this can be accepted, then they bring in the black soup, and then they can say that there is nothing to do, that some of the package has been accepted, that it would be a conflict of laws problem if the rest of the package were not accepted in the Parliament. The question arises as to whether the practice of administrative justice is at all behind civil and criminal justice, its effectiveness, its availability, its expertise is so bad that here it is immediately and suddenly necessary to intervene, otherwise it will be the end of the world. I have to say no, obviously not. Obviously, analyses could be carried out to say, in civil, labour, criminal justice, what are the advantages, disadvantages, what are the advantages, what are the different branches, but it is clear that it is not good to highlight and only in one area to try to remedy the problems. This is all the more true, because if we look at the functioning of the judicial system and its independence, then you have achieved, in our conviction, that the independence of the courts has been significantly impaired by some of the laws that have already had to be adapted to international pressure and that we should continue to believe in the future. The National Court Office has been set up, where the single-member judge, the president of the National Court Office, has been focused on a violent power that is virtually rare in democratic countries. And I would stress that this is also true of the current leader, choose any parliament. [[15.10]] And, of course, some powers had to be reduced a little at national pressure, but there are others that cause serious problems. For example, the declaration of inefficiencies in applications. It is still a practice that the president of the OBH can do that when more applications are received, even more suitable candidates may apply, say, for a position as head of the court, but, for some reason, no one is in line with the president of the OBH and does not want to make any changes in rank, then he can say that the whole application is ineffective and he entrusts someone to the position. Of course, when the years pass and an acting leader fills the position, he will then be easier to write an application that will be appropriate and easier to obtain the support of the judges working in that court. This is a huge problem, and you have practically acknowledged in your discussions that you can see the problem, and how good this proposal is to eliminate it in terms of administrative courts. This may partially eliminate and otherwise open up other problems, but if this is a problem, and we are not the only ones who see it as a problem, or not just the opposition sees it as a problem, then the whole court should be corrected. This is, by the way, a small amendment that we are a beginner - and not only we, as I have heard, have the same view at LMP that this is a starting origo of the whole amendment, that we change and take away the right of the President of the OBH to declare ineffectual applications in this form. You didn't want to hear about this, but with all kinds of nice promises and promises of modern administrative justice, they said that we should deal with this now, let us not deal with the other courts. The problem is that this has to be handled in a package, especially when we talk about legislators, the Parliament, and the government's intention. I know they see that this is a problem, why they want to leave it. I'll tell you why, they're trying to highlight administrative jurisdiction. That is important, because it can affect government decisions or the decision of the regional government; then what will happen in criminal and civil matters will make you less concerned, and that is quite problematic. By the way, I'm joining Csaba Gyüre in this, too. Yeah, yeah, they're gonna find those options to separate the system. A simple example: it was also found in higher education, the National University of Public Service is included in Hungary's budget, for example. You can represent your interests much more easily and effectively, and it was already a similar path that you would find the opportunity to support the organisations you have benefited from. To get to it a little bit, because there are also important points in the general administrative order, although, as I said, we are having a truncated debate here, and I trust that the opposition will be united in the fact that there can be no one or two modifications, or the quotas for judges coming from the administration, by eliminating it, only by obtaining this support or two-thirds support, but in one or two points I would also highlight the problems of the general administrative order or the problems at some point. The new administrative order promises a simpler, more transparent system - in many cases this will not happen. For example, in many points it is not clear what they wanted to write or what they wrote is a little foreign to Hungarian legislation. However, it is equally strange, for example, that in the future you would impose a half-million-dollar fine on an individual, one million forints on different legal persons, if you do not exercise your rights in a timely and inappropriate manner, or if you fail to make different statements or actions. Here, basically, we believe that bad faith should be punished and that citizens should not be threatened with such serious fines. I also have to say that errors remain in the system, such as the criterion of being placed under the lock, that a thing is exempted from being placed under the lock if it is necessary for the maintenance of its holder. Here, they do not think that if, say, it is necessary to sustain your child or his relative, then what? This is a transfer of a failed passage of the enforcement law or a similar passage. Even though I submitted the amendment of the law that if, for example, enforcement is not the given..., let's say, someone's vehicle is not due to its own physical disability, but let's say that your child has a disability and is using it for the sake of your child, it will be seized today under the implementing law, because it is not the one for whom it should be kept, but the child. By the way, this proposal was rejected in the spring, there was no technical reason for it, humanly or morally, or if it was considered, then I think it is a shame that they could not even bring this small amendment into the law of enforcement, and even the thought did not come to you enough to take it into account here at least in the case of being placed under the lock. Then there is also a recurring problem as to whether the authorities in question can only correct errors, a decision or a request from the client, and we believe that this should not be regarded as an appeal. If the aim was to solve problems as quickly and as flexible as possible and to relieve the burden of different appeal forums, this should not have been the case either. And what is an old branch - for you, too, in opposition, I would add - is the issue of investments of major importance for the national economy, which sounds nice, but we know that it is not the priority investment that is important for the national economy, but what you consider to be an investment, and practically anything is allowed for such investments, and without prejudice to appeal, these decisions can be implemented immediately. I get it, they've been criticizing the MSZP from the opposition, who's made the mother's law, but it seems that they're very good at applying it to the government, and it looks like they're trying to build it here. Then we do not feel entirely accurate or justified if an address, say, is treated in a closed manner by the authorities, or the client requests that the client be treated in a closed manner, it is even okay, then why, in the case at hand, does it mean that otherwise, let's say, the opposing party is excluded from a file review or a witness hearing. So, even though someone's address doesn't come to the attention of the opposing party, it could in most cases be present in the various procedural acts. Then the procedural deadlines have also been set a little uncertainly for you - or, in contradiction, perhaps, that is the better word - because in some cases a day is prescribed, which is very short, so in many cases it is impossible to even write a decision, in other cases 60 days of general time is used, which is often too long. So I think we should have avoided extremes in this situation. And then there's a lot of inaccurate wording, and I wouldn't say that in any case, but I'm going to mention one or two. The fact that the procedure starts on the day following the arrival of the application to the determining authority is an inaccurate wording, because if, say, it arrives on Friday, the procedure itself will obviously not start on Saturday, unless they also work on Saturday, because the administrator does not take up the work if we do not force it, obviously - do not do so, because on Saturday there will be rest periods in the municipality, as well as in the public authorities. But we understand in practice what you want to say, that the procedural deadline is starting, but that is not exactly how you should have put it, but correctly. Then the issue of legal force, finalization is also a point that is bad enough, that so far, let alone clients, because customers must be told, are not lawyers, but an administrator, who is not even a lawyer, but should know that just because something is final and second degree in the administration and can then be reviewed by a court on the basis of the law, does not mean that it should not be considered final at second instance. And by referring to the fact that everyone has mixed this up, they're trying to introduce a completely alien concept. [[15.20]] You should've used energy to train the administrators if someone was gonna mess this up. Then it is strange when authorities, at their own discretion, can act in the area of competence of other authorities without seeing the statutory or government regulation or the obligation to notify the competent authorities. Article 30 Paragraph 1 contains a criterion - otherwise it is also a question of closed processing of data and the restriction of the right to access documents; I have already said that it is not good to put the closed handling of the data and the access to the file under one hat, and this could be handled separately - a criterion to protect a person under investigation will also appear. Here, to be honest, the law does not otherwise state what is being observed, not being determined by the law. I would rather consider this to be an accurate term in a national security law or something; you may have known what you were thinking, but this is rather vague in this form, or, as I have said, the right to access the file should be more difficult to leave to be restricted. Of course, there is still room for listing problems with this law. These would be fundamentally repairable, but what my fellow Member Gyure and I have said is that we want these three laws to be dealt with at the same time, and the government is also looking at them, and not by trying to get the Parliament to adopt one or a half majority, and then be forced to accept the rest of the Parliament. I must say to you that if the problems we have told Csaba Gyüre are not eliminated - it is no big deal, a small amendment of the law concerning the powers of the President of the OBH - then we cannot give our consent to these laws. We can't give our consent to partial solutions. If there's a problem, let's not solve one part of it, let's solve it together. Only with such an approach can one do something to enable courts to operate effectively and independently. Mr President, thank you very much for the floor. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2016-10-11-84	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Ákos Hadházy, the lead speaker of the LMP Group.
u2016-10-11-85	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, The Fidesz lead speaker drew our attention to whether we knew which law we were talking about. We know that we are not talking about the law on administrative courts, we are talking about administrative litigation. We know that even if I'm not a lawyer, I'm a vet. But, of course, we cannot separate the two, we can say the same concerns or we can say the same principles that we have there. It is very important and very important and essential who will use these rules, i.e. what organizational and selection guarantees will be in this system. It is a very important basis for protecting customers and, of course, reducing corruption risks. We are also saying positive things, because it is positive that the law that has been changed with many amendments will finally become uniform, and it is positive that it is simpler. Obviously, this law will often not be used by people with legal qualifications, nor in offices. Noble simplicity, the principle of quietness, and we can see the desire to make this law more customer-centred and public administration. We are not happy that this effort does not always go in the right direction, and on the other hand there are few such changes. For example, we would have liked the self-certification procedure in Italy to be incorporated here. The essence of this is that in matters of less complicated and time-consuming licensing, the authorities automatically accept certain certificates from the requesting client and verify their authenticity only subsequently. That would be a very predictable thing to do. In the Hungarian administration there is no ex post control anywhere, but it would certainly speed things up if a certain principle of trust were to be implemented, and in many respects this would be the real revolution in this area. It would also be okay if, in the course of the checks, customers were given greater help and they could benefit from the checks. In any event, it would be good for the authorities to publish in advance in their control plans the documents which will be examined in the course of the verification, so that the customer can prepare for the checks. I, as a veterinarian, can tell you that sometimes they ask for rather surprising documents for various checks. That would be okay if the client knew in advance. In fact, as I said, even these checks would benefit a client, since it would not be a problem if, for example, he could receive an official certificate of his legitimate operation even if the check had been carried out on his own initiative. All in all, therefore, that there should be a separate law on administrative litigation is not, of course, considered to be dejected, especially because you are removed from the civil order, so whether there will be a separate administrative court or not, this is necessary. The main direction of criticism is, of course, who will apply this administrative procedure, who will apply it, and who will be able to say the things that we have said in the law on administrative courts, we do not think it is good that the redress system is virtually abolished at the internal administrative level. So there won't be an internal administrative remedy, but it will have to go straight to court. This is, of course, problematic in terms of the fact that it is much more difficult for the average citizen, if any Aunt Mary, to bring an appeal. Now you can just-- you can just go into the office, and you can write this with help, and you'll obviously need a lawyer or a lawyer to do that. We have said that this law is more customer-centred, because when we assume that there are many county-based, customer-friendly actions that are not called customer-centred, customer-friendly actions. We insist, and this is included in the package of amendments drawn up by the LMP, in the 12 points, in the county seat, in at least three cases, in the fine cases of individuals below a certain threshold, in social assistance and pension matters, and in housing property cases in county seats. We do not consider it realistic for an appeal in a pension case or in a social aid case to require a Pécs person to go to Zalaegerszeg in court. Appeals include the idea that there would be no place for an appeal within the public administration at all in matters of national priority. There's another theoretical danger that I think we need to talk about anyway. When the appeal is removed from the hands of the superior bodies, the superior bodies can, in fact, formally remove their hands from the local organization. So you can say that they don't care, and then the court will decide. We do not consider this professionally good; it is not necessarily wrong to have a look at the lower levels within an organization. It's not a dictatorship, it's a good control. Of course, the supervisory powers of the superior bodies will remain, but it will be said that it will be ex officio and not practice, and I do not think that it will necessarily be a big fan of the need to do so. We believe that administrative procedures and administrative courts may in theory have a role to play in reducing corruption risks, since broadening the possibility of judicial redress gives this possibility in principle, but in order for this to actually happen and not to make things worse, LMP point 12, the points of amendment - which we have submitted to the law on administrative courts itself - will certainly be important. Thank you very much. [[15.30]]
u2016-10-11-86	Ladies and gentlemen, That is the end of the keynote speeches. The joint general debate is adjourned. It will continue and be closed at our later meeting. For the next item, the Secretary of State is not here at the moment, so I am obliged to ask for a technical break. I will adjourn until then. [[It's a short break.]] Ladies and gentlemen, We'll get back to work. Secretary of State has taken his place. We now have a general debate on the bill amending individual laws on the establishment, maintenance and functioning of university hospitals until closure. Presentation by Members Lajos Kósa, László Pósán, János Halász, László Kucsák T/12339. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, I give the floor to Mr László Pósán, the author of the item on the agenda.
u2016-10-11-87	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, If there is a segment in Hungarian higher education that is specifically marketable, sought in the world, if you like, high quality and is able to generate income for higher education institutions, that is medical training. During the last ten years, the proportion of foreign students participating in medical education has increased five to six times, which is a welcome fact, but now the host institutions and training institutions have reached the limit of their capacity. A very important aspect of medical training is practical training, the training site, for which, as appropriate, hospitals and living patients need to be more than simply floating in such virtual space. How important this is, let me point out that in many western universities, for example, simulation exercises have a much greater role to play in medical training than the relationship between the actual patient-doctor. Consequently, the part of medical education in Hungarian higher education is particularly competitive and, as a matter of fact, attractive. In order to further increase this positive trend, which has shown itself in this area over the past ten years, and in any case very serious in scale, in a national context, this means a revenue per year of 30-35 billion in order to increase it further, it is necessary to increase the training capacity of medical institutions. In this context, the proposal proposed would also create the legal concept of the so-called university hospital and, mutatis mutandis, its organisational unit: it relates to the university. One of the reasons for this would therefore be to increase the number of training sites. The other reason is that the healthcare system has a kind of hierarchy in terms of the type of tasks that individual actors in the healthcare system are obliged to perform. In this respect, clinics represent the highest level of care and, if you like, ordinary, apologies for the term, often seem banal, should not be treated in clinics. In other words, a hernia surgery or even an almond surgery can basically be performed in everyday county and urban hospitals, but in clinics, which now belong to universities and are an important part of medical education, they can basically encounter this type of case at the level of daily practice. Therefore, hospital practice would provide an opportunity for such simpler cases to be met by those involved in medical training in a proportion that would require them to be able to obtain sufficient preparedness. The question could be asked: good, good, but there have been so-called practice hospitals or teaching hospitals, why this is not enough. Well, the thing is, this system, which, of course, has been on paper for quite some time, is not operational in practice. There is a very simple reason for this: hospitals in Hungary, which have this title in terms of medical education, that they are a kind of teaching hospital or practice hospital, are mostly not local, geographically, where the training places are, and it is not realistic to imagine that, say, students at SOTE may be able to be sent to a hospital in Sopron, or they may be able to practice at the medical faculty in Debrecen at the county hospital in Miskolc. The reason for this is simply that neither accommodation nor catering can be solved, nor transport, not to mention having very serious financial implications. They therefore do not work in practice. Let me give you a simple example to illustrate that it is on paper, not in practice. The hospital in Sopron, for example, is a practice hospital related to the University of Debrecen. It is not lifelike to send students from Debrecen to attend medical school every day. There is another important reason why this proposal has been formulated. Hospitals that have so far - let us now ignore the fact that they were teaching hospitals only on paper, but they are not prepared to send students who are not Hungarian native speakers, who have to study in English or German, they listen to lectures in this language, and they also have to conduct practical training in this language. In this respect, the university hospital system also serves the purpose of enforcing these requirements in terms of personal conditions. Of course, if this legislative change, this new term technicus, appears in the law, it is necessary to include some additional points in this context. This obviously affects the question of whether this hospital has or does not have an OEP ID. Obviously, there is a proposal for this, because if it did not have it, it would merge with the clinic, and the aim is not to increase the clinic, but to have in addition to the clinic another supply unit, which is not the peak in the progressive care system, as has already been said. [[15.40]] Of course, it also concerns the organizational and other related matters, and what is most important about all of these is which hospitals can be a university hospital. It does not appear as a sovereign decision of a university and is not born as the decision of a hospital, but it would happen strictly in accordance with the entire Hungarian health care system, in particular in the government decree, and essentially under the approval and professional supervision of the Minister for Health and the Minister for Education. It is not, therefore, that there is some kind of university expansion or some other intention; specifically, as stated in the general justification, to further develop Hungarian medical training, to strengthen it, and basically to increase the number of training sites. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2016-10-11-88	I am now going to ask the Secretary of State Palkovics, on behalf of the government, if he wishes to comment. [[Dr. László Palkovics: Yes.]] It says yes. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2016-10-11-89	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, Dear Congressmen, ladies. Joining in the presentation by Mr Pósán, I would like to confirm what has been said about the need for a university hospital. If you look at the four major medical universities in Hungary, which are also involved in medical education - we have 11 institutions that are generally involved in health sciences, but in particular only four of the three rural universities, integrated medical faculties and the Semmelweis University are actually performing medical, dental and pharmacy training - these institutions are in the international rankings, the University of Semmelweis is in this respect the most advanced, the Times is ranked somewhere between 500 and 600, the University of Central and Eastern Europe is preceded by a university, and another university that follows it relatively quickly. If you look at the same in the BRIC rankings, there is Semmelweis University in 63rd place and the other three universities somewhere above 100th. We have analysed in detail the aspects that actually define these rankings. There are many aspects in these areas, one of the outstanding issues being the access of these universities to patient care. Patient care, which takes place in connection with medical universities, is not only a place of practice, so not only, as the congressman mentioned, we send out the student, the med student, to his/her summer practice and otherwise train him/her in the hospital - this is a very important element of medical education - but a university training place is part of a feedback for education, partly for research, and is a feedback for university education and research. Therefore, the world's leading medical universities, if we analyze the rankings, are very significant with this type of background, so a type of background where this kind of transfer of knowledge from the practice site - be it education, be it research, university education research is returned to the very important background... I would like to say some of the figures, some of the indicators that we have looked at are the place of these universities in their rankings and, obviously, in this way, the quality of their training and research. One of these is the case number for a student. If you look at the ranking of the first 15 medical schools, then a university student has 96 inpatients, bed rest, at Semmelweis University it's 28, so it's about a third of that. At the University of Debrecen and at the University of Szeged, which, by the way, belongs to normal patient care beyond the clinic, so hospitals were previously placed in a clinical function, this is a little higher, but still does not reach half of this number of 96. Obviously, the number of beds can be argued that the number of beds is relevant or not, it has a series of determinants, but let's consider this to be one of these characteristics. The number of beds per student is 0.76 for the first 15 medical universities, while for Semmelweis University this means 0.47 beds, so it is significantly lower, although it shows a few things in its proportions. What is more important, the number of health colleagues involved in the training background, this is a very important feature. In the first 15 universities, one medical student has 7 health professionals, so this is the number of people involved in the health background activity, while this is the highest at Semmelweis University, which means 1,52 students. So this shows that the research-education background of a university is of paramount importance in terms of practical training. Obviously, it is not the area covered by universities, it is the area of patient care - be it characterised by TV, TV, or Hbcs - that is important, but the way in which it gets the experience that we are producing here. These are the characteristics from which we then defined the required supply portfolio width and depth required for good medical training, and then came the numbers that we have at the moment, and, for example, in the case of the development of Semmelweis University, we consider these numbers to be the guide. However, in order for the patient to see more invasive or noninvasive interventions, such as the inclusion of a stent, which also needs to be practiced, and to do so, obviously, you need to expand the portfolio. That is why we support the proposal of Members to create another form, called the university hospital, which is organically linked to the university, which is the basis for university education research, in addition to the clinical function. In the university hospital, as in the bill, besides education, there is research activity in addition to practical training, and the results of this can immediately appear among the university's achievements, which will then be clearly characterised by the goodness of university research and education and ultimately the quality of the university. So the government is in favour of this motion, and I ask you to support it as well. Thank you.
u2016-10-11-90	Now we're going to hear the speeches from the lead speaker. I'll ask if anyone on Fidesz wants to comment. [[No signal.]] I do not see a candidate, so I give the floor to István Tukacs, the lead speaker of the MSZP group.
u2016-10-11-91	[[He's pinning his microphone.]] I'm sorry, Mr President, I'm just surprised that Fidesz doesn't make the lead speaker on this issue, but if I think about it further, I'm actually not that surprised. Ladies and gentlemen, First of all, I would like to miss two things in relation to this proposal: firstly, that this bill is not being tabled by the purse and the wallet, and that the Secretary of State for Health does not want to participate in the debate. I don't miss it so much, honestly, but I would like to hear how the head of the portfolio took part in this preparation process, what is his opinion about the integration of hospitals into university organisations, how he will manage them in a professional and mainly financing sense by the university leader and his chancellor. Ladies and gentlemen, Let's take a look at what has happened in the field of health in the past. Mostly the fact that the competent secretary of state of the wallet didn't put a program on the table when he took office, but five points. These five points are basically a defensive, non-essential, lack of money health care. I have to tell you this because the five points look like they want to partly rewrite minimum institutional conditions, put chancellors in charge of a number of hospitals, care about basic care and funding it, and I recall that they also want to create a public health program. I am not talking about Budapest's super-hospital cases, because it was more of a clown than a real, normal consultation on this issue. These five points are defensive, because it is partly about lack of money, because the chancellors want to be entrusted with the tasks of financing, as well as, by the way, the organisation of sick roads, capacity management and care management, namely, to redirect capacities, cease, organize, deal with human resources, healers and their staff, and to keep hospital debts to the same level, which are otherwise constantly in control. [[15.50]] The other points in which we managed to buy the anger of the women in primary care by missing out on the first round of the 10-billion-dollar circle that the wallet would have been designed as some kind of small change for the development of basic supply, I wouldn't say much. I think you can understand the few figures that say that both GPs and pediatricians are missing hundreds of the system. I understand or think you're trying to create a public health programme. As far as I know, there is only one valid health concept document for the government at the moment, this document, entitled "Healthy Hungary 2014-2020," which was important not necessarily because of strategic direction, but because of the obvious need to put down some paper for the next EU development cycle. It's not 90 percent, I don't want to make any untruths, but about 60-70 percent of them are analyzed and about 30-40 percent of them are formulated as some kind of target system. Therefore, when we are talking about organisational reorganization here, and I do not dispute the intention that it is likely to contribute to a more meaningful and better medical education, we must nevertheless ask the questions that arise from this. On the one hand, what is the role and function of the current teaching hospitals? How was that so far? That's when you've been traveling? So you've been sleeping there? So far... [[Dr. László Pósán intervenes.]] That's what I'm talking about, Congressman. On the other hand, and this is more important to me: how will these hospitals be financed in the university structure, and whose decision in particular will they operate? Although I have had a brief discussion here with a fellow Member on the extent to which this relates to the powers and preparedness of the Chancellors, I must say that in this strangely proposed conceptual bill as a motion for a representative, certain hospitals are excluded from the scope of the future chancellor system. This cannot be disputed in this case. And there won't be any more money to support these hospitals. At the moment, looking at some data, and not even these hospitals are the most funded in the hospital circle, certainly not in Budapest. I must say, therefore, that at a time when the authors say that they want this transformation because a more meaningful medical training can take place, but let it be. They may not think that this medical training needs to be made more meaningful so that more of our doctors can migrate abroad, more of our doctors can earn better working conditions and a better living. And I say it deliberately abroad and not in Western countries, because that is where our doctors are going, but also to Slovakia, for example, which we do not view as perfectly calm with our approach. And in order to keep them well trained, we need to show some sort of career. The reason why I have to say this on this agenda is because when the government has set out the implementation of high-quality medical training and the establishment of the necessary centres in recent weeks as a strategic direction, it has not yet talked about the same organisational change that lies ahead. Then you must also understand that this does not necessarily mean only training foreign students in Hungary, and it does not necessarily mean that we want to train doctors for others. Therefore, the assignment of the course, the real course of life, would be important here. Overall, I would be very curious to know what kind of conversations took place between the leaders of Kenézy Hospital in Debrecen and the head of the University of Debrecen. I will mention it because they are talking about it, Professor Szilvássy has an active role to play in the creation of this construction, and he is obviously using the current Fidesz faction leader, Lajos Kósa, who is also in Debrecen. Therefore, I think that if this intention is serious, it should be taken seriously; we should say the additional resources that need to be put there and put in place. It is necessary to show the professional background that can also operate these complex institutions. I think that in medical education, our country has never been at a bad level. [[Dr. László Palkovics intervenes.]] I don't think so, Mr. Secretary. You can talk a little bit about how it's done, obviously. [[Dr. László Palkovics: Good.]] But I do not think that a country further east of us in Hungary is looking for the other end of the phonendoscope, as doctors practicing in Hungary, if they want to stick it in their ears. So we're dealing with a well-trained and well-trained medical society, who, by the way, are forced to work in this poor health care sometimes because of bad conditions. So I'm saying you should see the resources or the extras. You should see the specific financing method in which these new schemes can be operated. These will be essential for a better operation to be achieved in this. And what I would like to say at the end: the argument that the presence of students coming from abroad and studying here can be extended with this construction, I do not share. There's no sign of that. It's a good wish that can be said, but I don't think this is the key to your stay here. So I deeply disagree with the statements in the proposal that point to this. Dear Secretary of State, I'm sure you won't be offended that I've missed your fellow Secretary of State by your side. With all due respect to you, I have to say that I would have liked to have taken a more thorough and professionally mature thing out of his mouth, because now I see that this is a matter of education and higher education, and the part of his healing is somehow looking like it's embezzlement. And finally, I hope this isn't about getting rid of hospitals, and that's not what started now. So what's not happening is that we're trying to get tastier snacks out of this infirmary system, and then these rural hospitals are gonna stay in their classrooms, their capacity, their operating conditions, so short that sometimes they can't even be called hospitals, and they're gonna end up in some way and they're gonna heal in some way. There are already huge territorial imbalances in the odds. I believe, Mr Secretary, that we cannot argue that we are not healing equally in Békéscsaba, Zala, Budapest or Sopron. If there is something to be focused on in addition to this proposal, then these problems, the issue of emigration, the question of geographical imbalances, the question of the chance of recovery, the question of financing and wages, should most likely be raised. In Hungarian, I think - and, Mr. Secretary of State, of course, this is not your fault - that we have met with health in two forms here, in front of Parliament, or in the form of a salad law, when, suddenly in the wallet, he believes that now we have to take care of a lot of things and throw up everything, they say to us, in a presentation; he puts it here, and then we get along as well as we can. Or the other one that we've been meeting with, these are the certain ideas that we find here in front of us, as a motion from our representatives, so saving us the professional consultation. I think that, apart from the health debate days, the results of which, to say the least, were once again in question, since, let us be honest, there was no debate here, we just talked about each other, it would be necessary now to see some direction together, because I am far from believing that health should not be dragged into certain directions every four years, every two years or every eight years, but in some way, by professional and political agreement, to create the possibility of a long-term and long-term development. Mr. President. Thank you so much for the opportunity. Thank you for your patience. Thank you for the floor.
u2016-10-11-92	Thank you. I now give the floor to Péter Harrach, the lead speaker of the KDNP Group. [[16.00]]
u2016-10-11-93	Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Health care has a lot of problems, and this is part of what this proposal is trying to remedy. Let me mention a few headlines as to what areas the government should or has already handled. Firstly, we should mention wage planning, because this is happening continuously and in the coming years, and it is addressing a major health problem. Debt management, consolidation of hospital debt is another issue. Let me mention that this is not the first time that has happened, and according to the State Treasury data of August 31, more than 55 billion have been accumulated again, which, according to some opinions, will reach HUF 70 billion by the end of the year. Optimisation of the sick road is also a question that has been raised several times for a long time; questions of medical training that have been brought up and exist so far; developments in which the countryside and the central region have enjoyed or suffered a significant difference; then financing problems, which include, for example, the operation of chronic beds in the hospital, inpatient care or the transfer of chronic beds to social care. I could raise many other similar questions, but first of all, let me say what we have already been through in part, but it is definitely a joyful event, and it is a matter of health pay. We know that doctors working in-patient care received an extra HUF 107 thousand this year, 100,000 forints next year, so a significant increase in wages, which may also reduce migration. In the primary care, the extra income of general doctors per practice of 130 thousand HUF is a good opportunity for them this year. And since my fellow Member mentioned the women in charge earlier, they also have 30-35 thousand forints more wages this year than they did last year. But we could also talk about dentists, and I do not want to go into these details, but we have to say again that the increase in the salary of the staff has solved an extremely important and long-standing problem, since the increase of 26,5 per cent and the increase in wages of 12 per cent thereafter and 8 per cent for four years will significantly improve their situation. This is one of the problems of health care, if not permanent, but seems to be resolved. The state is once again willing to settle debts in hospitals, but it is also a fact that this cannot be done constantly. So there must be some sort of solution here, and this proposal will also provide a solution to this in part, since the inclusion of universities is a vision for farming that may be a solution in those hospitals. Although I suppose I am not the only one who has listened to the opinion of the hospital directors; that is not their opinion, but I would like to come back to that. [[István Jakab, vice-president of the Parliament takes the chair.]] With regard to developments, what we see is the great joy that rural hospitals have developed and renewed, but when we look at hospitals in Budapest, this joy does not appear, because it is precisely because of the weakness of EU funds that these developments have failed. The promise we're about to make gives us hope. The issue of chronic beds, which I was just referring to, is a much bigger problem, since the most expensive means of healing is, no doubt, inpatient care, and the establishment and maintenance of non-active beds is not good farming. However, this is a delicate issue that must be resolved with great preparation and patient implementation. I say, too, what my fellow Member has said, that in Hungary, at least according to our knowledge, medical education is of high quality, but it is also a fact that it is primarily the training of foreign students and the benefits of what has been mentioned here, and this remains one aspect that the institution's supporters want to work on in every higher education institution I know. And finally, the university hospital, as a new name for the medical service category, really means optimizing the patient's road management, which is no doubt an ongoing problem, and so far it has not been completely resolved. If we look not only at the benefits and the results achieved so far, but also at the questions raised by this proposal, let me mention the concerns raised by doctors and hospital directors. They ask whether the situation and condition of non-university hospitals will be with this transformation, and whether it means removing the energies and opportunities they fear. Similarly, the question of the autonomy of university hospitals is raised in the medical community and the dangers of excessive centralisation have also been noted. Finally, there is one more issue, and it is not only a question, but also a request from these hospital directors, that a more detailed consultation with them would be necessary or necessary. I felt that these concerns should also be addressed when we talk about this otherwise valuable and well-developed proposal. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-10-11-94	Thank you very much, Mr. Group Leader. Welcome, fellow Members. Dear Parliament, Mr László György Lukács, lead speaker of the Jobbik Group, will be here to speak. Here you go, Congressman.
u2016-10-11-95	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, Practically speaking, we ate the story, and that's because we actually have a bill on educational matters ahead of us, and we've prepared ourselves for health care. Of course, the two are connected, since it concerns the clinics themselves and the organisations to be set up by the university hospitals, new departments, but yet it seems that we all thought - and we did not fully see the direction in which this debate is going - that this is going to be a health debate. We got on the horse the other way, it's obvious. By the way, I have already indicated to the rapporteur yesterday that this debate is expected to start in this direction, and it would be good to prevent this as soon as possible. After all, there is little or much to do with, but not entirely with health, and it is not entirely with health care. It would have been expected and avoided if, let us say, it was clarified immediately at the very beginning - and thus the speculations that this chancellor system would be the chancellor system that Zoltán Ónodi-Szűcs announced - were published either in left-wing or left-wing media, so these overlaps would have been clarified. After all, it seems that there was more of a temporal coincidence between this chancellor and this kind of chancellor system with the chancellor system set on the flag of the health secretary of state. It was a tragic coincidence, so everyone robs it and flies at it that maybe it's version two of the chancellor's system, and what they couldn't push through their constituency president, they're somehow doing through clinics. [[16.10]] It seems that either I have been tricked or otherwise convinced, but it is clear to the contrary that this bill is more about how to solve the real problem in clinics, how to provide adequate education and good practice for students who are paid for medical education, mostly abroad. After all, I myself was in the framework of the real national consultation at the Debrecen clinic, which, in this case, was a starting point, and I was also in the Szegedin, and they reported the same problems everywhere, and we can safely say that they were unable to provide the appropriate operating conditions for the paid medical training, which was the core of the funding of the University of Debrecen or any university. This resulted in the professional training offered there, not 100 percent, in a good quality. Obviously, this could leave a bad, bitter taste in the mouth in the students, it became natural that this should be improved, because it is not possible to say that 20-30 students would try to line up with a patient, because the patient material was far more finite at the clinic than any student would have wanted to perform the test on it, or even to observe the patient about what was happening. So this extension seems reasonable. So it would have been a good thing, in any case, to avoid this expected bad start, to state, whether or not it would have been good - and let us be true to my socialist fellow Member - that even Zoltán Ónodi-Szűcs would have come in and told his own version of this so that no one would see such a coincidence now. Then we would have been lucky to have had this debate, and perhaps we would not have discussed such a topic as medical emigration or, for example, wage increases or the situation of women in charge, because this has little to do with this current bill. But what might be interesting, and to be clear, I've written this up for myself on the basis of the bill. The fact that Debrecen has been prepared in a pilot and that this idea starts in some way, but we still need to think about what will happen in Budapest. The University of Semmelweis is the only university with a full health profile, while the other universities have other disciplines, so Semmelweis University may have other intentions in establishing its own medical structure. I am not afraid, by the way, that national institutions aired by the media can also be subject to Semmelweis University, because they cannot do this at Semmelweis University in order to bring national institutions under their control, as they also perform official tasks. The university can't carry out such official tasks, so from now on it can't become a department of national institutions. So we can check this out. However, it is dangerous that, while the government is trying to restore health care in Budapest, and an old and old opposition wish that it is now time to pay attention to health care in Budapest, its solution can be destroyed and the issue of super-hospitals may be destroyed by the Semmelweis University's involvement in various university hospitals - now I put it in a bloated way - but making it an organizational unit, because then again we will not see clearly how the Semmelweis University, as the institution setting up the highest level of progression and otherwise university hospitals across Budapest, will turn over this entire Budapest care system, from which it is now clear that in two places, in Buda, there is virtually nothing certain how many places a high, probably also the highest level of progression supply will take place. So this is going to be very difficult to comb together, I think, the plans for Budapest. And Budapest holds a great deal of danger, wherever this mine comes from, which in this case is in Budapest, it may be possible to close it with some amendment proposal, I consider this to be considered, put a modification proposal in this direction somewhere, and I do not want to speak against Semmelweis University, but in some way they must also be kept under control, regardless of whether the establishment or operation of such university hospitals depends on approval, and this may be sufficient control. However, what is interesting and to be considered is that in these areas of care close to universities there has been a clinic-head heavy care, and at present the establishment of such an extended university hospital department of medical universities will continue to shift the weight of care in these areas towards clinics and clinical care. So far, in the clinical supply shift, we can safely say that 17.5 percent of the supply was national. If the operation of Kenézy Hospital as an organizational unit can be believed in numbers, then 2800 beds of monsters will be created, which will be completely under the clinic. So such a supply shift can legally come with this bill, perhaps a little bit of concern. Which is also to be clarified or possibly considered and considered: the development of university and maintenance tasks seems very mixed, there are a lot of overlaps in the legislation. This is obviously also because there are a lot of laws to be applied, and in a very diverse university management and organizational system, there is an autonomous system with local government that meets the health management and management system. So there's gonna be a lot of problems here, I think. I think, if this is small and there are too many institutions... - so there will not be such a need to eat in a university hospital, but rather a rational, small number, then perhaps these are maintenance and university tasks, whether state maintenance or university maintenance, the friction of which may still be manageable. It is absolutely important - and this has indeed been confirmed by the institutional visits made in the real national consultation - that the development of reimbursement medical training, but also medical training as a whole, is a priority, not only because universities make a large part of their budget, but also because Hungary has very few break-out points when talking about medical human resources. And it certainly seems that the current human resources crisis of Hungarian health - I do not say that it is a disaster, but its crisis - can be remedied or remedyed in some way - can be achieved by improving the quality of education, the flexibility of education and the capacity of foreign students. Increasing the capacity of practical training sites is indeed extremely important, so we certainly support this on our part. However, I think it is worth considering that within the so-called health management body, we are trying to throw away the fair share of delegated members - and I have already indicated this to the rapporteur. In this case, the State Secretary for Health... - rarely heard from a opposition representative that he wanted to favour the State Secretaryship, but we would try, and I would suggest, and I would probably speak home as a health politician, I would try to throw it away for their benefit, since the work done is much more a part of health than I think it is a part of education. So here's the idea that the minister delegates three or two persons, or the rector, Chancellor, I think we should make it equal, which, however, raises the question that very often we would face equality of votes, so once again it would be just chessmate or a stalemate in which they would not be able to decide. But at the expense of education, I would like to increase the number of people delegated by the Minister. The problem, as I mentioned, would have been nice to come forward sooner. I understand it's not a new problem, it's not a new design, it's from Debrecen. What we see behind it, how the Kenézy Hospital or its director or the current force field in Debrecen defined it, or how the head of the university defined it, or where its role is, may be completely irrelevant. Perhaps it would have been better to come forward sooner, and then we could have avoided these chancellions in it. Overall, I believe that the bill may have the necessary brakes, the counterweights that enable it to be set out in the explanatory memorandum to achieve a well-reading objective from the law that has been expected for a very long time to develop health education at some level, improve the quality of training facilities, provide sufficient guarantees and sufficient guarantees. [[16.20]] I think that this is not a fully health and perhaps not health legislation, so I am not the final word for it, because I am not the politician responsible for this, but it seems to me that this will be a Eligible proposal. I think that there will be an amendment to it, and we certainly need to work together. And I would suggest to the authors and to the State Secretary that you now calmly state what the original purpose was or where the legislative intention came from, and that, on the one hand, KDNP can be reassured, as KDNP is not clear to you that this will be a purely educational proposal, and on the other hand, you can do something with the opposition and even guessing in the press, and perhaps everyone will look a little more calmly at how the clinic and the university hospitals are being organised. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2016-10-11-96	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. Independent Members have applied, but they are not in the Chamber, so they do not wish to speak. It is now time for the speeches by its representatives. Before I give the floor to my fellow Members, I give the floor to Mr László Palkovics, State Secretary. Secretary of State, please.
u2016-10-11-97	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I asked for the floor because the debate that has emerged here, I think, is a very valuable professional debate. And after Congressman Tukacs has returned, I would like to respond to them in order to avoid any misunderstanding that has arisen here. I think we can really say that this proposal is what is an important element in the development of higher education. I believe that the women and gentlemen sitting here, especially the health politicians, but also the opposition representatives on higher education policy, have seen the strategy we call the strategy for the development of medical education. The higher education strategy adopted in 2014 had five priority areas, one of which was the field of medical education. This created a separate strategy, which we can call a partial strategy, which clearly includes on one of the first pages, and then later opening up that need. I think that keeping foreign students here is just one of the elements of this thing. It is usually the case that the practical training of Hungarian doctors, if we look at the survey of the residency association, if we look at how small comments are made in other countries in the case of otherwise well-acclaimed Hungarian doctors, these are the comments on practical training. And the simple reason for this is the numbers that I have told you that students simply cannot participate sufficiently in practical training that is not only the practice hospital - and I would return to it a little later - if we looked at the qualifications of doctors in other countries, the last one was a delegation in Israel, where doctors who did not have a medical degree in Israel had to undergo a serious qualification. 90 percent of the graduates in Hungary go through this, only 50 percent from Germany and only 30 percent from Romania. There was one point highlighted, the need to strengthen practical training. So this proposal is really about what it is really about creating the background. In reply to Mr Tukacs, why the Secretary of State for Health is not here: because we have produced this together, and we have consulted on this constantly. Another question is why it was technically put forward by the Members who are health politicians. I think they have every right to do so, and that is actually the right thing to do. It's an absolutely agreed position. What is about the goal, I would also like to clarify, in part, Mr Tukacs, how the number of doctors working abroad from Hungary is changing. In 2010, the number of doctors who asked for permission to work abroad - I stress, they asked for permission - does not necessarily mean they left - was 755; in 2015 it was only 393, so the number of people asked for permission is reduced. Nevertheless, the task of the Hungarian medical training is to ensure that the medical society with an unfavourable staff is replaced or replaced by those who go abroad. Obviously, this has many other consequences, but it is important that practical training should take place in training. Practicing hospital versus university hospital. The training hospital is an institution where the student goes and during the summer break takes part in an exercise with the support of his leaders there. However, the university does not profit from this in this sense, because the knowledge the student acquires there does not then appear in university training, unlike, let's say, the university hospital or higher level with the clinic, where teachers of the university appear in this training, they do this research, and the results of this will appear either in the publications. If you look at the highest number of articles showing clinical research in Hungary, about 1,400, this is higher than the sum of a number of other areas, not a bad area, but it is still not high enough to make significant progress in the rankings. So this proposal is indeed what is, one of the elements of the higher education system, the training of doctors - which, I think, is at the moment a flagship of Hungarian higher education - to further develop in order to improve the practical training of Hungarian doctors, and in order that if we have succeeded in positioning ourselves well here, we can really increase the number of foreign medical students. Congressman Toukacs has indicated that this will not keep foreign students here. A distinction should be made between students in English and students in German. Students taking part in German language training left medical universities earlier in Germany, after the second year, after theoretical training. I can tell you that their number is growing joyfully, and if we can strengthen practical training, it will have the same effect on them. And students in English will stay, they will not leave, there is no other pressure to leave the university after a certain period of time. This confirms that this is not only an important element for Hungarian medical education, but it is an important element for medical education and its financing. As a question of what the university hospital looks like within the university, whether the university is fit to run a hospital. At the moment, 17-18 percent of the entire Hungarian supply system is in the clinics. Indeed, it is true that care shifts in clinics towards cases of a certain higher degree of progressivity, which is why this portfolio needs to be broadened, as I mentioned. Open-hearted surgery is a very important type of surgery that we do in a clinic, but varicose vein surgery and every hospital is, so a medical student needs to see this. We can also reconnect from this, either from its research section or from its educational part to university training. It is therefore important to broaden this portfolio. How do clinics work? There are two points raised here by the Member, one being the financing authority, and the other being - in some ways I think - a legitimate presumption, perhaps, because I would not say fear that the clinics basically prefer to deal with matters of higher progressivity. On the one hand, they have this nature, and on the other hand, if you look at what the case-mix index of the four medical universities looks like, 1.44, which is much lower than the national institutions, since they do specific care, while the average of hospitals is around 1.1. In this sense, clinics not only treat cases with high progressivity, but also other cases financed by star hbcs. We would like to change this in any case, precisely because of the improvement of training. If we look at the development of the financial situation of the clinics - and I'm really just talking about clinics - in the last two years, the clinics of the four medical universities have been virtually consolidated. Until the amount of the bill paid in 2014 was 14-15 billion forints at the end of the year, this does not exceed 5 billion forints in the last year, but changes a little bit. This is the total university, of which approximately two and a half billion forints, which is the debt of the four clinics, which is a rather negligible number compared to the current currency, which, according to the State Treasury data, is now about 100 billion forints. That means the clinics are stable. And the quality features show their effectiveness, so the presumptions that clinics are in any way worse managed within the university are not so. I think that the expertise available within the university will be absolutely capable of managing a normal hospital activity. So I don't share that concern. It was another legitimate point from Congressman Harrach and from Congressman Luke that universities would come like little balls and then hospitals would be pulled in because health management wanted them to be transferred there for such reasons. This presumption does not hold up because there is a critical limit to the size of university care. This is exactly what it takes to get the university to work well, but it doesn't need anything more. The integration of national institutions is not good in this sense, as there we would be talking about a huge hospital stock with 4500 beds. The fact that we have to work together in some other form, let's say, in an association form, so that the scientific results can appear together, so that we can build things together that are not necessary at a clinic, but that is an absolute expectation, but that is also a requirement for cooperation with any other university. So the fear that college clinics or universities would do anything to make money is not a legitimate fear. [[16.30]] In the case of Budapest, the development of Semmelweis University, as it has become apparent after some government information, is completely serious about the government. As Minister Lazarus said, we will put together a grand grand plan for this. This is being created, and we are in intensive negotiations with Semmelweis University. We'll soon have the results of this. One element in this is obviously an extension of the hospital background at some level, but again, what is necessary to move towards international benchmarkes is nothing more. So universities have no intention of increasing this background beyond all borders, just what is needed. That's about all I wanted to say. Co-operation with superhospitals is another issue; here the clinics have a job to do in this, of course. I think that Semmelweis University, as the country's largest supply institution - since it provides around 6 percent of the country's supply on the hbcs basis and, by the way, it is the largest supply facility in Central Hungary - this expansion is only necessary to the extent necessary for education and research. But beyond that, the fear of hospitals, national institutions, that this will result in something mega-institutional, is not right, it is not right. Looking at international examples such as London's supply system, London's supply system is divided into four elements. Three of these are normal hospitals, and the fourth is a university clinic, the university hospital of London, which, by the way, is responsible for an area and is the peak of a high level of developmental care system in this sense. So there are different examples. I think that the involvement of Semmelweis University will also mean a similar role in the future. That is what I wanted to add to the professional debate that has arisen here. I hope I didn't seem too incompetent, even though I'm not a doctor, but I'm trying to understand this situation as a State Secretary for Higher Education. Thank you. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-10-11-98	I thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, It is now time for the speeches by its representatives. I give the floor to Mr László Teleki, MSZP Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2016-10-11-99	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, I am pleased to be able to speak after you because you have given me very important thoughts, and you can be very much agreed with when you say that this is about the development strategy for higher education, the medical development strategy and medical training. On the other hand, I also have the question, who, by the way, I am a layman on this issue, why the government is not submitting it, why Members should submit such a strategically important question. But that's your problem. When I came to Parliament, I vowed that I would speak for the Roma for those I represent whenever there was an education or health issue. I am doing it now because Flórian Farkas is unfortunately not here in the benches of Fidesz to tell you and ask you what results will be, what positive results will be if these institutions are transformed at this level, or if these trainings are created within universities, what can you do to help the Roma in Hungary, for example, or even the poor who live in small settlements. And many times it can be said that they are far more distant from those patients with such large-scale strategies than they should be approached. I therefore think that I should ask you and the authors whether there will be any change if this strategy really comes together that the Roma in Hungary do not die 10-12 years before the non-Roma, even though their mortality rate is very bad compared to the European Union. Will there be any change compared to what we are now seeing? Because today, it is safe to say that the poor and the Roma are, in any case, the most vulnerable and vulnerable sections of health care and of our nation. In this way, they are not able to make use of the services that could be provided either in health care or in education. Therefore, it would be very important to see, in addition to strategies, a short, medium- and long-term strategy, presentation and calculation that would show what results can be achieved in healing. Because, once again, what Mr. Secretary said is very important and a good view, so think about it. However, we do not see that in five years' time, ten years from now, or 15 years from now, what the health situation will be, whether healing will change in the lives of small settlements, whether it will change, say, the fate of the most disadvantaged settlements, or whether the Roma, whom I have mentioned, or whether the situation of the poor can shift further than we are seeing now. I think that, according to my values, it is a very important question whether they were able to plan what periods will come in the short, medium and long term strategy. Thank you very much. [[A rare applause in the ranks of the MSZP.]]
u2016-10-11-100	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, We now have two-minute speeches. I give the floor to Mr Nándor Gúr, MSZP Group. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2016-10-11-101	Thank you very much, Mr. President. My fellow Member Tukacs, in conjunction with the draft law, said strictly all the things that had to be said, so I will not allow it to be repeated. However, I would like to add two additional sentences. One is connected to what my fellow Member Teleki spoke about. There is a huge difference in supply in the country. The people who are involved in health care work with a tremendous strain. Not only about nurses, but about doctors, and, if necessary, about a level of burden that unfortunately involves the possibility of making mistakes. This needs to be changed, too. So when we are talking about university hospitals or the practical training, training of doctors and achieving quality shifts, then obviously this must also have a financial background. But not only in terms of specific institutions, but in general in almost all areas of the country, so that the differences in supply can be minimized. The other point I would like to make is that my fellow Member, Mr Harrach, spoke about the importance of wage development. I agree. It is extremely important, but not in four years, in four steps, then in 18 and 19 at the end of 2017. If this government wants to do something, then do it at your own time. Mr. Secretary. With regard to the so-called emigration intention, I would like to say that, of course, if a lot of people have left the country in the previous years, then it is obvious that the number of people who wish to leave the country will lose less and less. However, even in this regard, the government has something to do, I think. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[A rare applause in the ranks of the MSZP.]]
u2016-10-11-102	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Mr Péter Harrach, Head of the Group, KDNP, applied for a two-minute speech. You have the floor, Mr. Group Leader.
u2016-10-11-103	Mr President, I think what I have just said is that this proposal is a well-thought-out, thorough work, which is primarily about the possibilities of medical training. It's totally fine. But what results from the debate here is that the university hospital not only helps with training, but also carries out care, and an institution that is also involved in running it. So this proposal goes beyond education. That is why I consider it important to consult with the otherwise sensitive representatives of health care. Or fine-tune, the sensitivity of health managers should be taken into account, because it's not so much about doctors as it is about hospital directors. And if I have already been given the floor, allow me to return to the question that I have just mentioned and that I have also brought up by my fellow Member. It's the wage increase. After all, when it comes to the Roma and other people in difficult situations who are mostly in rural areas, there is a question of basic care. My fellow Member, who has just spoken, is wrong in saying that we are not doing the wage increase in our own period, because in our own period, 130,000 forints per practice have just been made, and in the next year, the doctor's salary increase is 100,000 forints, 26.5% of nurses and 12 percent forints for this period. You can't say it goes beyond this cycle. Thank you very much. [[16.40]]
u2016-10-11-104	Thank you very much, Mr. Group Leader. Dear Parliament, We will continue our work with further speeches from our representatives. I give the floor to Mr István Tukacs, MSZP Group.
u2016-10-11-105	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I do not want to dance on the nerves of those who are waiting to discuss further agendas, so I will try to make a brief statement. First of all, I would like to thank the Secretary of State for his participation in the debate, unlike some of his fellow State Secretarys, who will wait for the debate, then either respond or perhaps not even respond to what has been said. Accepting that you are examining and defending the proposal from a higher education and training point of view, you must nevertheless understand, Mr Secretary, that we also need to look at health issues when we talk about this agenda. I would like to express my opposition to what you have said in two elements. So the fact that the number of licence applicants, i.e. the number of doctors asking for permission to leave abroad, is numerically decreasing in a given year does not mean that the number of doctors out there and practicing is decreasing. It is certainly very easy to see that after a while doctors who are qualified to work abroad are running out of the system, based on their language skills, mobility and family situation, so I still do not see this picture as good. The other thing I would like to say to you is that I am pleased that the clinical unpaid bills - let us start with caution - do not grow, so they remain at some level, but the hospitals are constantly regenerating to a certain level, so they crawl up to a hundred, then some consolidation occurs, they fall back and then go again. This raises the question of financing again, because it is not a question of constantly regenerating this debt, that the managers are illiterate from a management point of view, but it is highly likely that there is something wrong with the funding system and that integration into the university system will not solve this problem in these institutions. So I definitely think and confirm that we need to see sooner or later some sort of special financing background - and in this case I accept that it is special - for these institutions. I think, along with my fellow Member, Mr Harrach, that this is not only an educational issue, but also a health issue, and it is worth a thorough consultation, of course we agree on that. I'm not that optimistic on wage issues. The workers had a general wage claim, this 50 percent should reach 100 percent by the end of the cycle. This was not the case, and unfortunately, according to my information, some institutions and various reclassification games still continue to whine about these twenty-thousand forints, so they don't find what the news says on the payroll. Overall, I think that we should have the good hope of providing good medical training in relation to the presentation, but let us also hope that we do not want to train doctors who practice practice elsewhere with expensive medical training. This game is going on in the world, because well-trained doctors are lured from everywhere, because it is an expensive party, and not all countries allow it, but rather the profession seduces it with a high salary. I would also like to express my hope that keeping them at home after good training will be the primary strategic goal, not of the wallet, but of the general government at all times. Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President.
u2016-10-11-106	Thank you very much, Congressman. For a two-minute speech, I give the floor to Mr Nándor Gúr, the MSZP Group.
u2016-10-11-107	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Congressman Harrach! I do not want to take this debate in another direction, so I will not say any more, but for the sake of clarity and in order to clarify the situation, I have to say the following on the issue of wages. If you do not know it, be clear to you that these four steps will cover the period after the end of your governance: 2018. CHAPTER XI from 1 January 2019 and from 1 January 2019 to 31 December 2019 CHAPTER XI One and the other, which is already beyond the cycle, have calculated from the beginning of the month. So it wasn't untrue, it was true. That's one of the problems. The other problem is what my fellow Member, Tukacs, said that these people, the workers, are very much looking for around the minimum wage and the guaranteed minimum wage. In addition to this wage, the scale shifts, the percentage increases are not as huge as the money they are trying to bring forward, and unfortunately they do not even appear, they land in their hands, but with certain transfers, and with others, these funds are reduced. They are such a disappointment to people that the hope that they have reached out to this opportunity, the growth they will have in terms of wages, will be annihilated, but they will give rise to negative emotions in many cases. I'd like to add one more thing. The point is to look at, say, for those working in the economic field or for those working in the technical background, what kind of wage development they have made in terms of health care, without them, without health care: seven years, I can say with a calm spirit, none. And my last sentence is that if the minimum wage and the guaranteed minimum wage people themselves and their employers hadn't taken more money as a contribution burden, which they are now trying to rewind in part, they would play a fair game. They're handing things back to people from the source they took. Mr. President, thank you very much.
u2016-10-11-108	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, For a two-minute speech, I give the floor to Congressman Lajos Rig, Jobbik Group. Here you go.
u2016-10-11-109	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, I did not think I would speak on this subject, but the seriousness of the subject requires it, because now I have fellow Members from MSZP who are not the subject of the proposal. So we're gonna have to argue later about how the funding for all of this is gonna be, and I don't think a university clinic has a different score than a city hospital - one of them. It should also be seen that the proposal itself is a well-meaning proposal, since it encourages and serves doctors and health professionals who work and have studied in this healthcare system. What you can see in teaching hospitals is that they're overcrowded. If you go to a visit, you stop in the surgical ward on a visit to the head doctor, counselors, doctors, specialists, and medical students, you have to get the patients out of the ward so they can get in, so it's not a good system. It used to work that way, and the reason for that was that there were very few places where these doctors, these therapists, could actually study. You can't learn by looking at what the first person in line is doing. And imagine the situation of the patients when a medical student examines the person standing before an appendectomy for the thirty-eighth time. If you didn't have a stomach ache by then, then you will, and then it's just an appendectomy and not an invasive bowel-washing procedure, I wouldn't want that. So, in our opinion, this is a very forward-looking proposal, as it promotes medical training and professional training, and these people who want to work in the healthcare system acquire knowledge that, I think, is at European level, because everyone knows and sees that vacuum pump is in vain. [[The President shall ring a bell to indicate the expiry of the time limit.]] that absorbs healthcare workers to all countries of Europe [[The president's ringing again.]] including Germany, Austria and England. So, in my opinion, we will support it. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2016-10-11-110	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Mr László György Lukács, Member of the Jobbik Group has applied for a speech. Here you go.
u2016-10-11-111	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, I've been thinking about a very old topic that I think is very relevant here. In any case, if health and education are to meet in such a specific proposal, and if we are already involved in emigration, many people want to see or see me as I have a greater role in emigration than I could or could have had at all. I can tell you that I didn't have a role like this, but it gave me the urge to dig into this problem, if possible, and see what's behind it. I have seen it, and I am sure that although this bill seeks to create the opportunity for foreign students studying here - I am now talking about foreign students - to achieve it, it is not certain that it will provide an opportunity, because they come here with a thousand motivations, but mainly because Hungarian medical education is of high quality compared to its price. With this training, they are able, in practice, to work, if not anywhere in the world, but at certain points in Europe or in their own homes, where they come from, significant, well-paying or, at least, appreciative at their social level. [[16.50]] Most of these students - and this is shown by all the statistics of the registration office - start from the country after obtaining the diploma. Which, by the way, is probably the case at every university in the world. This is no different in London School of Economics; when you go there to learn economics from Hungary, you will probably not use it there, but in your own country. He paid the money, and he goes somewhere else where he can manage, possibly in his country. So what has been said here several times is that perhaps it will be good for you to keep young doctors here, it will probably not be suitable, but it will probably be suitable for improving the educational conditions of students in Hungary, and perhaps this will be one of the things that will give you attractiveness. But what I said at the beginning was that I should come back when health and education met. I have been watching for a long time since I did not think fair of the European trend or the trend in the world that the West was constantly sucking up the skilled human capital of the countries that emit high health human resources in Eastern Europe. I think that, in this way - and I recommend this to Mr Secretary of State - a similar refund mechanism could be raised in the European Union scene, which, by the way, works in agriculture, i.e. where materials, knowledge, opportunities are sucked away by those trainings, so in this case Hungarian health care should also receive some reimbursement. In Sweden, they do not constitute a sufficient number of psychiatrists at the professional level - we have also looked into this, it was not easy, as it seems that these data are not normally recorded in the European Union and other EEA Member States - so if they do not provide enough psychiatrists there, but three qualified psychiatrists perform as specialists in one year, i.e. there is a very narrow input and very limited outcome training, but Hungary, Romania, Bulgaria, I could list the otherwise Eastern European states, doctors in twenty-thirty numbers, and then some kind of reimbursement mechanism could be extorted, because if nothing else, the common benefits of Europe and the common burden would be operated in this way. My old idea - and I would ask Mr Secretary of State to consider it if so - is to take advantage of the possibility in this area of using some kind of refund mechanism, because we see that our country and the other Eastern European Member States are also affected in a very extreme and very serious way, and it has a huge exposure to it, mainly due to its internal causes, and I think that it is quite well known, so there are a lot of factors that drive workers abroad or carry them; it is obvious here that there are two different thermologys to talk about how people stand for this problem. But let us think about how to make progress at European level, possibly even under a Hungarian flag, so that these European Eastern European Member States can be able to receive a refund in some way, which, by the way, can be done to university educational centres, whether it be the teaching hospital or be the clinical center itself, and they can invest in it, and we can safely say that if Europe needs to train all its doctors here, then Hungary is available in this and can, of course, achieve it, but we cannot do this only from Hungarian sources, we cannot do it only through the contribution of the Hungarian budget, Hungarian taxpayers, but we can also implement it from other sources. I apologize for making such a detour, but I had a very old desire to tell you this. On the one hand, the Health Secretary-General is probably unable to deal with this or not with his competence to deal with it, but it is an educational issue or an area of higher education that I propose to consider, raise and make progress at some level at European level, because this could be a solution that could give these training venues stability, give stability to this course of the Hungarian budget, these chapters. So I definitely think it will be worth thinking about. I am available in this regard, and I am glad that this has come up at least on this subject. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2016-10-11-112	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I'm asking if anyone else would like to speak on the agenda. [[No one's reporting.]] I do not see an application; the general debate is closed. I give the floor to Mr László Pósán as rapporteur, please express your answers.
u2016-10-11-113	Thank you, Mr. President. First of all, I would like to thank Members, Mr Luke, or even Mr Lajos Rig, who apparently read the proposal, and did not confuse it with talking about how health care should not be done, but about the issue of medical training. The presentation is relatively short, I think it can be read quickly. I'm even gonna take the chance that it's not too complicated to understand. Therefore, it is among the bill on educational subjects, and if one takes the least effort to look at the ten paragraphs that it consists of, the numbers speak for themselves. Technically, seven paragraphs change the Higher Education Act, the 8th. §, i.e. there is a total of one paragraph on the law on the status of civil servants, and there are two amendments to the law on medical matters, both of which are otherwise legal. So I think it speaks for itself. The question arose as to why the wallet didn't spread it. Well, ladies and gentlemen, the situation seems to have indeed started from Debrecen, no doubt. [[Interview from the ranks of the MSZP: We thought so! Famous!]] I am glad my fellow Members thought so. For a very simple reason, the county hospital and the clinic in Debrecen are within a city. It's been a very long time, so it's been almost two decades, and there are also clinical instructors at Kenézy Hospital, if you will. In many respects there is an old tradition of cooperation in this sense. At the same time, there are parallel dimensions, labs here, there, and so on. If you look at how reasonable or unreasonable it is to operate something, how much it costs, you might want to think about how to draw it closer. However, the legal conditions have prevented this from happening in many respects. By the way, declarations of intent were issued two years ago from both the wallet, the university and the hospital, and during the spring we made a proposal that specifically relates to this. But then, quite rightly, I think the portfolio said that in the strategy for the development of higher education that was formulated in 14 and that medical training is also emphasised in it, the practical development aspects of medical training are obviously not only true for Debrecen, so let us make the bill itself more general in this sense. This has happened, and we have indeed had a lot of discussions with both State Secretariats on this matter, by the way. The fact that this bill has now been drawn up is the result of these consultations. And this negotiation is specifically... [[Dr. István Józsa: Inefficiencies!]] I have listened to Congressman Tukacs, and I hope he will be honored to listen. [[István Tukacs: I keep quiet all the time! The president's ringing the bell.]] But if you don't want to know, I think you should go outside, if you don't want to know. I will answer the points that have been raised. So, in this sense, this proposal is linked to higher education and relates to the further development of medical education. There have been a number of questions about why this is important. Well, let me give you some data. Mr. Secretary of State mentioned it in part. In the case of Semmelweis, in the case of SOTE, it was said that many foreign students, when they enroll, leave after theoretical training. This is not only because they come from the German language area, because there is also English language training, but there is also a relatively high proportion of those who do not complete their studies here, and one of the reasons for this is - there are many reasons for this - there is no confusion, but one of the reasons is - that the training capacities are finite. What Mr Luke pointed out, by the way, is that he met this problem in Debrecen and in Szeged. It's true elsewhere. Obviously, this can be increased if we can involve other existing capacities in places where otherwise this is lifelike. Where is lifelike? Obviously, in a physical sense, also in cities, in areas where daily transport and housing, and the rest, are naturally present. [[17.00]] It is not a question of raisining hospitals, and Mr Secretary of State has already replied, and I would just like to point out that this is a regulation-level and a government competence, as, by the way, the management of the health care system, and so on, so there is no such thing. Anyone who says that just doesn't say it's real. In essence, funding has already been found, and it is necessary - I said this too, but it is clear that the socialist colleagues did not pay attention at the time - to this new legal category as a university hospital, so that the clinic does not grow. Because in this way it is possible to have a separate OEP ID and the health fund finances the care there. Do not mix naturally with the clinic. The relationship between the university hospital and the clinic has been discussed. I would like to reassure Mr Luke that the university hospital would not be subject to the clinic, but this particular health management body, which had an observation regarding its number, that it should be made equal, that we are open to it in this sense, that there is no problem, because it would be created precisely because of two adjacent units, with different patient care with varying progressivity, but at the same time the internal patient road management, laboratory management or anything similar, should be coordinated. This would be the subject of this particular health management body. He mentioned the rankings of the university, Mr. Secretary of State. On the other hand, let me make just one comment, and this is, by the way, somewhat linked to the proposal. International university rankings are compiled according to a wide range of criteria and criteria, one of which is, among other things, the number of foreign students present at the universities. If we want - and I think it is important because it can also increase the attractiveness of a university - so that Hungarian universities can advance in international rankings, then it is useful and important that the number of foreign students studying here also increase. I note in parentheses, they pay, and we can produce the highest priceable demand in the field of medical education. So they can have multi-directional positive benefits. Mr Teleki, Member, has suggested how this can help the Roma in Hungary. Well, I don't want to make any jokes right now, no misunderstanding, but the proposal is a long way from that point of view. But I'd still like to answer you. If we can solve the strengthening of the practical side of medical training, and it is not what Congressman Rig said that he might see the patient from a distance, but that he can actually inject himself with an infusion, and I do not know what else, he will thank us back in basic care, because the aim of medical training is to train doctors in every aspect of everyday life. That is why there is a need for training places where everyday life is not only very complicated, but, if you like, they can also learn its simpler cases, because we talked about it, the clinic belongs to a very high level of care. But indeed, what is the situation with tonsillitis, it must also be possible to do so in the average hospitals, to recognise it in the primary care, and to do so, there is a need for appropriate preparedness in the field of practical training. So in that sense, I can answer you if it soothes you, but obviously you won't have a very quick feedback, because remember, general medical training is six years, and then you'll find medical training. So by the time there are tangible aspects, let's be honest, that's a lot of time. Thank you very much for everyone's comments on the fact that the present proposal really serves to further develop medical training. Thank you for noticing the professional part of this and for being able to relate to the fact that this is not something of a political nature, but something of a specific professional nature. I thank you in advance for your support, and I hope that many will be able to support it, because in this sense it is, in my view, politically, a matter of absolute neutrality. Thank you very much.
u2016-10-11-114	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, The amendments may be submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. Dear Parliament, The 1997 LXXVIII on the shaping and protection of the built environment follows. General discussion of the bill amending the law until closure. The government referral T/12365. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, I give the floor to Mr Nándor Csepreghy, Secretary of State of the Prime Minister's Office, Deputy Minister, author of the item on the agenda.
u2016-10-11-115	Mr President, Dear Parliament, Thank you very much for the floor. Our membership of the European Union is accompanied by expectations of the application of European standards, with all the clear advantages of them, but also by the disadvantages resulting from known, sometimes too bureaucratic, procedures. In order to compete successfully with industrial and technological developments, it can be said that the settlement of the technical regulatory environment for construction is an urgent task for Parliament. This could also be an important factor in competitiveness. In this way, the manufacturer, the distributor, the designer and the contractor are assisted by a modern technical regulation that is accessible and transparent. Shaping the technical regulatory environment, however, standard-setting is a very time-consuming process. There is therefore a risk of an increase in bureaucratic burdens. The bill aims to respond to these challenges in terms of a more vibrant regulatory environment and transparent conditions for construction actors, providing further assistance to the processes of building permits which have been accelerated over the past period, thereby contributing to the Government's successful home creation policy. Dear Parliament, As is known, the most well-known technical regulatory tool is the standard. In the field of construction, some of the Hungarian national rules can be considered ageless, which may affect the quality of constructions and, where appropriate, the safety of life and property. In cases where it is not products or only domestic rules, it is sufficient and appropriate to draw up technical directives in the field of construction. The technical directives on construction may relate to building materials, construction technology, architectural programmes and construction structures. On the one hand, the technical directives on construction are well suited to address the technical regulatory environment during the transitional periods until the adoption of the rules and on the other hand, they can act as a separate, definitive technical regulatory tool. The technical directive on construction is not unknown in international or in the history of the Hungarian technical regulatory system. The application of the Technical Construction Directives is voluntary, as is the case with the rules, but the investor may require them to be used when investing in the project or group of projects concerned. We should also stress the requirement that, if legislation or rules are established in the field covered by the Technical Construction Directive, the technical construction directive should be withdrawn. Ladies and Gentlemen, The Government has prepared a legislative and action package for the development of technical directives on construction, the first and most important steps of which are based on this bill. At the same time as the bill is submitted, a government decision will be issued on the fact that the Minister of Construction, the Ministry of Quality Control Innovation Nonprofit Kft., is responsible for the rapid correction of technical specifications in the field of construction. ensure the development of technical directives in the field of construction. This task will be carried out by the Ministry in cooperation with professional chambers and organisations, as appropriate. The Minister responsible for construction is authorised to lay down detailed rules on the establishment, composition, function and functioning of the Committee responsible for the development of technical directives in the field of construction. It is for the Committee to monitor the achievements of technical progress, to analyse domestic and international experience in the field of construction, and to review technical directives in the field of construction as necessary, but at least every 10 years, and to amend their content where appropriate. Dear Parliament, I would like to inform the House that this process has started, and it also aims to help with the involvement of budget and EU funds. By adopting the bill described above, I call for the support of honourable Members and this House to achieve the common objectives set out above. Mr President, thank you very much for your attention. [[17.10]]
u2016-10-11-116	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Now we're going to hear the speeches from the lead speaker. I give the floor to Congressman Gábor Bányai, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group.
u2016-10-11-117	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, LXXVIII of 1997 on the shaping and protection of the built environment. I would like to mention the purpose of the amendment of the law, the development of a modern technical system for construction, the application of which is voluntary, but investors are obliged to require their application in each project. The Directive may cover building materials, construction technologies, architectural programmes and building structures. The need for this bill is also confirmed by the fact that our membership of the European Union is accompanied by the application of European standards, which are often more advantageous, since a large part of the Hungarian national standards are already obsolete, and this may affect the quality and safety of construction works. In the case of technical construction directives, the arrangement of the technical regulatory environment for construction, including deep and high construction, is an essential task and accessible and transparent technical regulation will also help the manufacturer, distributor, designer and contractor. The development of a technical regulatory environment is a very time-consuming process, and the construction technical directives are therefore well suited to addressing deficits during the transitional period. The most well-known technical regulatory tool is the standard. Our membership of the European Union is accompanied by obligations to apply European standards, with all the clear advantages of this, but also by disadvantages resulting from excessive bureaucratic procedures. Due to the over-dimensional process of standardisation, this is slow and expensive. In cases where it is not products or only domestic regulations, it is appropriate and appropriate to draw up technical construction directives. Construction technical directives may also cover building materials, construction technologies, architectural programmes and construction structures. On the one hand, the Technical Construction Directives are well suited to the technical regulatory environment during the transition periods and on the other hand they also act as a separate, definitive technical regulatory tool. The construction technical directive as a regulatory instrument is not unknown in the international sphere or in the history of the Hungarian technical regulatory system. As regards the technical construction directives, the aim is to provide it to ÉMI, i.e. the Construction Quality Control Innovation Nonprofit Kft. develop, prepare and, where possible, involve the professional association of the specific field. Dear House, Having mentioned in the presentation that, in the event that legislation will be adopted or a standard will be issued in the area covered by the technical directives, the technical construction directives will have to be withdrawn from the government, knowing the proposal, I propose to this House that it be adopted. Thank you for your attention.
u2016-10-11-118	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr István Józsa, the lead speaker of the MSZP Group.
u2016-10-11-119	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, There is a very important presentation before this House this Tuesday afternoon. I have to say, after the large-breathed introduction and the almost exhausting Fidesz lead speaker approach, it is necessary to agree that order should be made in the area of Hungarian construction regulation. This re-regulation that has taken place in the last few years has not been good for the industry. If we think of the international examples, deterrent examples, which in France resulted in an airport hall, where passengers were walking, collapsing because the fitting of two halls was inadequate, until three thousand people in Bangladesh had worked in a sewing shop that did not meet any strength requirements and tragically died there, so there are deterrent examples in all parts of the world that call attention and the responsibility of the legislator that construction must be strictly regulated in the interests of life and property security. This rigour, it seems, and in this we can all be self-critical, who have spent three days in the Hungarian Parliament, has loosened up since the change of regime, and it is time to move towards some sort of settlement and tightening up. In this regard, such a proposal could be a good one, but when we find that this motion was not included in the government's legislative programme, it was brought here suddenly, it was not even published on the government's website, it was only published among the parliamentary papers, there is no designated committee, there is no Minister for Construction, but there is no Ministry of Construction, so what really seems to be that there is no owner of construction in Hungary, there is no owner of construction regulation in Hungary. The title is very nice and comprehensive, that the 1997 LXXVIII on the shaping and protection of the built environment. amendment of the law; this was indeed the most comprehensive legislation, but the Hungarian construction regulation did not go the way that would be desirable. This proposal consists of only three paragraphs. So even if we see a path that has begun, it is only the very beginning of such a proposal. It is also true, what is written here in the reasoning or reasoning of the proposal, that in the field of construction, much of the Hungarian national standards can no longer be considered modern, but it still gives a hint, especially in the area of security. It is proposed that it would be sufficient to develop technical directives on construction instead of standards in the case of domestic regulations, with such acceleration considerations. It also describes the areas you're thinking about. Among these building materials, the issue is absolutely appropriate, and the criteria must indeed be laid down here. It is likely that we should move very quickly from technical directives to standardisation, as these are very serious material issues. The requirements for building materials to meet, the composition to be met, this is a very meaty issue, and, of course, if they do not have to, they will not comply. So it is very important here that these technical guidelines are drawn up along the lines of professional inputs and lobbying interests. Building technology is a equally delicate issue. It is less interesting, and the very interesting thing is that the issue of architectural programmes is included in this technical guidelines, because this is definitely the area of investor's freedom, what construction programs or architectural programmes are being put together. I am benevolent, and I say that it would not hurt to have a technical directive drawn up on this, which criteria should be met by architectural programmes or construction programmes, especially, as I mentioned, in order to comply with a specific function. Similarly, the technical directives on building structures, like construction technologies, are very sensitive areas of construction regulation. As with standards, I would not use that word to be voluntary, I would say that it is carried out under contractual conditions. If there is a responsible investor, then it is certain that he will conclude in the contract with the contractor what standards, standards, technical guidelines he considers to be respected. I'd prefer that they be accompanied by a requirement for construction. [[17.20]] The technical directives in the field of construction should not be contrary to legislation or regulations, according to its logic, which goes from general to detailed, so most generally the legislation must regulate construction, it must also be more stringent and thorough, the standard can be created relatively quickly, but therefore the technical directive can also be most detailed. It would be particularly beneficial if, in fact, the wording of the proposal were to be drawn up, it was only a mandate that the legislation on technical directives for construction would be two-tier if the Parliament adopted this regulation, on the basis of a ministerial decree authorising it, to regulate the detailed arrangements for the establishment, composition, function and functioning of the committee responsible for the development of technical directives in the field of construction. It would have been fortunate if this regulation or government decision had been known before the adoption of the law, it would have been more in line with the responsibility of the legislator. It is not by accident that the House has passed the legislative law at the time that, if there are regulations attached to the law, it must be known at the time of the decision-making. What the author said that this would be discussed with professional chambers and professional organisations is definitely desirable. The problem is that such promises have already been made by the government here in Parliament, and implementation has not always been successful. Interestingly, it is so fast to enter into force that this law will enter into force within 8 days if it is adopted, even though it has not previously been included in the government's legislative and legislative programme. If I would like to discuss the circumstances of the drafting of the bill, it is quite difficult to understand the sudden emergence of this legislative idea, which can, of course, be brought into line with certain EU regulations, but also because the Construction Act was also included in the 2015 autumn session of Parliament and was amended in a comprehensive manner at its 2016 spring session. So it seems that if the process of this conscious construction had somehow failed, it would appear that the construction business is constantly, permanently, on the menu of Parliament. The most remarkable of these was the 300 square meters that were almost nothing below, and then they tried to clarify that. The fact that the directive rather than the standards is a step backwards or not is, in principle, acceptable to the national argument. Indeed, the lead time of a technical directive can be faster, so it can provide a guide to designers, builders, builders, but it cannot in any case replace standards. So this would be reassuring if standards were included at least at the level of intent. It cannot be found, even on the basis of an overview of the Internet news, what is the real driver of the proposal. Obviously, there may be some specific case behind this amendment, as we have seen a few times in the past, but it has not yet been established. In addition to the fact that the Minister appoints the establishment and composition of the committee, if this is not accompanied by sufficient transparency, he may also open up an unlucky direction of lobbying. To be more clear, when people get involved in how they write it, it may not be the most modern, but the easiest solutions available in the technical directive. If the Committee looks at European trends, energy efficiency and modern solutions with sufficient openness, it can use them as Hungarian architecture regulation. So I would like to emphasise that we should have a comprehensive, thought-out regulation in the field of construction, and that this haste is not good for us. What we see here can be a small step in itself, but it would be much more comforting to see a thoughtful process. If we see the proposal together with the regulation and the amendments, then I do not consider its eligibility to be excluded, and now, in this form, it appears to be a sudden and difficult proposal in itself. Thank you very much, Mr President, for your attention.
u2016-10-11-120	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mrs Loránt Hegedűs, the lead speaker of the Jobbik Group. Here you go, Congresswoman.
u2016-10-11-121	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, To continue where the speaker had left off, it would indeed have been good or better, it would have been better for me to interpret the bill if you, Mr. Secretary of State, and the general speaker of Fidesz had not read to us the general explanation, since we could have read it from the draft law ourselves. And with regard to standardisation, it occurred to me that one thing is certain, for example, that it has been standardized here in this House, that government proposals are spoken in the same way by the author of the government and by the lead speaker of Fidesz on the same subject, but believe me that this does not really help the legislative work, in a sense it makes the speaker's comment boring, because the same thing was said word for word. But here was a comment from my fellow Member, Józsa. Not only in the field of standardisation, or especially in the field of technical standardisation, but also in the field of construction law, which started in December 2015, when, suddenly and unexpectedly, a quick procedure was presented to the House and voted for a certain amendment to Étv. that building authorisation for buildings below 300 sq m was not necessary and that the Prime Minister's Office was not able to restore it through various laws. But I could mention other similar cases, however, there is no doubt that in this area it has long been... - but I can safely add the subject of settlement planning and spatial planning, there is already a comprehensive settlement, so not in an ad hoc way, in line with some kind of background interest, but in accordance with the expectations of the profession. Now that I'm moving on to the bill, you're where you got into Étv., so that's 31. These two paragraphs have been inserted into the section, which is interesting in itself, but there is no doubt that these two small paragraphs do not really reveal much to us. The wording is highly framed, perhaps the general justification itself, and the detailed justification are such that the government's intention can be understood at some level. More has been said here in the debate about how outdated Hungarian standards in the field of construction are, or how much this area has been covered by standards and standards. [[17 .30]] I was gonna check it out. I was gonna check it out. I saw a standard with an MSZ number in this area of about a thousand and three hundred each, and in terms of the number of years, I have to say that it is about a thousand or a thousand or more that has been defined since the 1990s. And when you look at each of the older standards, they are typically those that apply to certain calculations and certain technologies that have not changed greatly over the years. Some geometry calculations had to be done the same in the 1970s, the 1980s, and now. There will be no change in this and there will be no change, regardless of any EU directive. But let us accept that, with our accession to the European Union, this is also our obligation to harmonise certain EU standards, I assume, in accordance with Regulation (EU) No 305/2011, also in Hungary. And until the harmonised standards are complete here in Hungary, there may be such directives. In any case, I dispute that Hungarian standards would be so outdated that this could undermine the safety and quality of construction. I have not experienced, I have never heard of situations that my fellow Member, Józsa, has just listed for us. Another is that which also strengthens the framework character of this bill, which is the general justification for what these directives will actually apply. For building materials, technologies, structures, so far it's all right; for these, I'm telling you, there are already some 1300 different standards. Believe me, Mr Secretary, these include in incredible detail all the conditions of design, construction, building structures and construction products. But what we can think of under the heading of architectural programs is very difficult to interpret. Architectural programs can also be called design programs. We might wonder which version of ArchiCAD they want to standardize. Could this be part of the directive? Obviously not. But an architectural program can be the development of a new technological process or the construction of life, but also, let's say, an installation program, where and how certain buildings are placed in a new development area. So what architectural programmes mean, I don't know, but it would be very good if the Secretary of State tried to give us a little detail. The other concerns the voluntary nature of the directives, and there is a parallel to the justification for the fact that there is also a type of volunteering in terms of standards. This is, by the way, one of the basic principles of standardisation is that standards can be applied voluntarily, but this can never be a negative deviation from the standard, so it is always possible to do better than the standard. So if someone can do better than a specific standard in terms of the development of science and technology, it can be used in the construction process, and this can also apply to the directive - I suppose, but this does not come out of the proposal itself. However, it is quite clear what you write that volunteering is okay, but in specific projects or groups of projects the investor is obliged to make. Yes, I also thought about what would happen if the composition of the committee were, for some inexplicable reason, to include representatives of certain large foreign companies in this committee; the sale of their products is for them ahead, and certain specific technical specifications will be drawn up in the directives that would give them a market share or, where appropriate, a complete market coverage in Hungary. It was in the history of the world, not so long ago. I think it came up with exactly some kind of mole, why it is, why it could only be in a standard. That is why I say that this type of fear may not be unfounded. However, if we were to think about architectural programmes, including directives and the task of the committee, I could not think of a specific example of how this could happen. It is precisely the sudden introduction and rapid entry into force of the bill that raises questions in me. For example, here's the renovation of subway 3. According to the original ideas, it would be a 140 billion-dollar project, but it is already known that this money will not be enough; it will probably end at 200 billion, and the purchase of vehicles is in addition to that, and there is bus replacement, but let us not talk about them, because this is not an architectural investment. But what can be considered as an architectural investment is a certain amount of HUF 200 billion. In particular, specifications, directives that can only be met by one investor could be the result of this bill. So I would very much ask the honourable Secretary of State to reassure us that this bill has not been drawn up and submitted to us so quickly for this or not specifically; so the investor's intention, which requires the application of certain kinds of directives, will not mean that small-scale government contractors will be given a competitive advantage for a public procurement requirement that others will no longer be able to comply with. Thank you so much for listening. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2016-10-11-122	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. I ask if any of my fellow Members have applied for further speeches. [[There's no such signal.]] I don't see any contact. Since no one has applied in writing before, the general debate is closed. I will ask the Secretary of State if he wishes to respond to what has been said. [[For signal:]] Yeah. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2016-10-11-123	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Firstly, I thank the speakers for their basically supportive contributions. At a further stage of the debate, there will be an opportunity to discuss the amendments in substance. Allow me to express the openness of the Prime Minister's Office in that we are truly open to the adoption of amendments on substantive issues. I just want to respond in detail or to some of the points. On the one hand, the Head of Construction under the government mandate is clearly the Minister of the Prime Minister's Office, so he has a government responsibility in this structure, even if there is no independent Ministry of Construction in this governmental structure. Any task the government has to perform is assigned to one of the ministers. In recent years, many decisions have been made to regulate building issues in a comprehensive manner. This also had an investment incentive effect. There has been a possibility in recent months, even in the last year, to debate the development of the built environment, its impact on the visual environment that surrounds us. And there is a very important part, which is linked to cutting red tape. Even in these debates, let us talk about the Law on Construction, the various measures to reduce bureaucracy, such as the obligation to notify the construction of 300 square meters of residential property compared to the previous authorisation procedure, or the Municipal Picture Protection Act, this would be all about one topic. I do not think that the new legislative amendments will be brought before Parliament by patching up an earlier one. Even then, we drew the Parliament's attention to the fact that these laws affect the need for this issue from different sides. What the congresswoman raises about the standardisation procedure may be a perfectly legitimate fear, and in the case of Hungary, we know about the professional discourses of the last few months or years when the state has limited the specific location or origin of a type of building material by a standard. [[17.40]] As I recall, this was on the agenda at an architectural forum in the environment of Minister Lazarus, when a small brick building was on the agenda for the various chimneys. In this regard, he made a promise that it was absolutely necessary to review it. As you have pointed out, indeed, the standardisation process is a much longer process. I ask, or have you, Minister, instruct the AMI to do this work in absolute transparency. So the involvement of chambers is a basic condition, but not the exclusive scope of participation in this work, but also for the Parliament, in a transparent way for the general public, and therefore we hope to establish a standardization system in Hungary that, in fact, I believe that it can bring about a regulation that creates this sector neutrality or market neutrality in a product, given products and building materials, essentially its basic capabilities. The fact that our actions so far were in the right direction is a numerical proof that in 2016, i.e. in the first ten months of 2016, the number of constructions started last year doubled. As of 1 January 2016, the construction of around 12 500 residential properties has started. So I think we are going in the right direction in this direction. As regards architectural programmes, we plan to think in the categories of demolition, public buildings, educational institutions, health institutions, transport nodes and the like. This is where the definition is opened. Mr President, this is all I wanted to say at this stage of the debate today. Thank you very much.
u2016-10-11-124	Thank you very much, Mr Secretary of State, for your answers. Dear Parliament, The amendments may be submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. Dear Parliament, There will be a general debate on the bill to amend certain laws relating to tobacco control until closure. The government referral is T/12371. You can access it on the parliamentary IT network. First, I give the floor to Mr Nándor Csepreghy, Secretary of State of the Prime Minister's Office, Deputy Minister, author of the item on the agenda.
u2016-10-11-125	Thank you very much. Mr. President. Dear House, Dear Parliament, The bill before you, which we have just discussed, is a legislative package on tobacco control, which the Government proposes to the Honourable Parliament for a number of important reasons. However, before explaining in detail the national position and the detailed reasons for the proposed regulation, I believe that it is necessary to give an overview of the effects of the measures taken so far by the Government and the Parliament to reduce smoking. Dear House, It is important to stress that since 2010, Parliament has made a number of important provisions to reduce smoking and protect minors. Some of this has been widely agreed, such as reducing smoking, banning smoking in public institutions, restaurants, workplaces or playgrounds. Other measures were still controversial, but there was always consensus between the government and the parliamentary parties on the objectives. It is worth mentioning first of all that, as a result of recent measures, the rules on the advertising of tobacco products have become much stricter than those in the EU Member States, and sponsorship by tobacco or tobacco manufacturers is also prohibited. There are still Western European Member States, EU Member States where this is far from natural. For example, if you walk in Vienna, large lighting ads from the tramps attract passersbys to consume one or another tobacco product. Hungary is also taking next tax policy action against smoking, even if it is part of the obligation arising from EU directives. At the same time, it does not matter what steps tax measures are taken, as drastic tax increases could increase the risk of illegal cigarette trafficking. As I will later explain to the Honourable Parliament, you will see that tax policy measures have proved to be so appropriate and that the effectiveness of control has improved so much that the illegal tobacco market has dropped significantly to half in two years, to around 6 percent in 2016. In the context of the adjustment of excise duty due until 2018, which is provided for in EU rules, we also recommend that Parliament act carefully, in accordance with domestic tax policy and health policy interests. In addition, the government introduced, far ahead of other EU countries, among the first to introduce the mandatory health warnings for tobacco products. Moreover, in 2016, we went further and introduced the uniform packaging of tobacco products, which will gradually reduce tobacco attraction in a noticeable way from mid-2017 onwards. Since, by limiting advertising rules, only the graphic elements presented on the packaging of products remain for the tobacco industry to attract smoking by displaying the products, we will also remove this possibility by introducing a single packaging. The government is proud to be among the first states in the world - together with France and the United Kingdom after Australia - which introduced not only the use of deterrent images, but also the fact that no branding or striking graphical elements can be displayed on tobacco packaging. We are convinced that this measure will also contribute to the success of our efforts to reduce smoking. Honourable Members, One of the government's undoubtedly controversial measures was the law on the control of smoking of minors and the retail trade of tobacco products, which was at the same time just another stop, another tool in the fight against smoking. The concession retail scheme introduced from mid-2013 has drastically reduced the total number of sales points of around 40 thousand in the previous period, while at the same time around 15-20 thousand in substance. Today the number of concession tobacco shops is around 5 000, which are monitored continuously and rigorously by the authorities. As the availability of products has decreased, this measure has also contributed to more favourable statistical data. In view of the fact that the package of measures, which is famous as the Traffic Act, has indeed led to a sharp debate, perhaps it is worth drawing the most important lessons. Firstly, that the Traffic Act has passed legal tests not only at home but also in the European Union. The European Commission has not even opened formal proceedings on the Traffic Act and the Constitutional Court has rejected previous objections to the law. The law also attacked it because it was supposed to be a greasy business for the companies that won the concession, but this is not so at all - as some press organisations that are hard to call a party to the government have repeatedly introduced it. The government has always stressed that this enterprise alone will bring only modest livelihoods and that, with the exception of some enterprises close to the western border, it will not be a big income at all. On the other hand, due to stricter sales frameworks, the law contributes to the implementation of health policy objectives. Nor was the accusation that the legislation package had rearranged domestic tobacco market rates. Typically, the two largest multinational tobacco companies Philip Morris and British American Tobacco continue to dominate the three quarters of the tobacco market, and the rest of them - both Hungarians and non-Hungarians - share the remaining small market share. Looking back on the past three and a half years of the Traffic Act, it can therefore be concluded that, in contrast to reservations and misconceptions, the regulation has remained in practice for all that was expressly stated in the law text and in the justification, namely for the increased protection of minors, which it achieved by means of stricter market regulation. Dear Parliament, The statistics also show us that smoking control measures are effective and are in the right direction. Based on data from the international youth smoking survey, there has been a clear downward trend in young people's smoking frequency since 2012. It can be concluded that the proportion of daily smokers was 7.5 per cent in 2012 and decreased to 6.5 per cent in 2016. The proportion of casual smokers decreased from 28 percent to 19 percent. This positive trend is also supported by the results of two other youth surveys on smoking frequency. It should be noted, however, that according to research conducted by market research institutes which are completely independent of the government, the share of illegal trade in cigarettes in Hungary decreased in 2015 from nearly 12 percent to 10.2 percent earlier, and this figure is estimated to show an even more significant decrease in 2016 with a result of around 6 percent. As a result, Hungary has already jumped 14 seats on the relevant international rankings, right next to the Scandinavian countries, to the 13th place. [[17.50]] Dear Parliament, If we mention only the above examples, it can also be seen that the government is following the path set by the Parliament in 2010 to reduce smoking and continues its efforts, especially for the protection of minors. The legislative proposal before you is also primarily intended to ensure that rules on the control of young people's smoking are at all times sufficiently strict. The details of this are as follows. In the case-law of the Court, it was noted that during official controls, tobacco retailers tried to challenge the legality of official procedures when, following the service of an adult-looking young tobacco product, the authorities closed the tobacco store for at least 30 days and imposed fines. In its decision in principle, the court ruled that the liability of tobacco retailers is objective in that they cannot serve minors - whether they look older or not - the government considers it important that the law also clearly declares the achievement of this objective. I would like to refer here to the fact that, contrary to the press reports published at the time of the submission of the bill, the government is not now proposing a measure to ensure that electronic cigarettes are only available in the tobacco store. This measure has been on the agenda since 20 May 2016. It is also a complete mistake that Hungary would approve the category of oral tobacco products with the bill, which is the official name of the popular snus products in the Scandinavian countries. This product has been prohibited from being marketed in Hungary for many years, and nothing changes at this ban. [[Sándor Lezsák, vice-president of the Parliament takes the chair.]] At the same time, there is no doubt that they have appeared in neighbouring countries, such as Romania, with a new type of combustion instead of an excitation. operating tobacco products which are allowed to be marketed in the EU Directive and which provide an experience similar to electronic cigarettes, but which is closer to traditional smoking. Moreover, they are modern, fashionable and attractive to smoking, which is why they are fundamentally dangerous if I think we accept the common goal of striving that young people do not get used to smoking in any way. Therefore, the bill complies with the requirement of the relevant EU Directive to regulate in some way the saleability of these new types of products and also requires that these products can be sold only in specialised tobacco shops in order to make these products available only to adult consumers. It is important to note here that the government is familiar with the professional debate on the alleged less harmful nature of electronic cigarettes and new types of heated tobacco products. We don't want to jump away from it. We therefore propose that Parliament continue to sell both new types of tobacco products and electronic cigarettes in specialised tobacco stores, where minors cannot enter, so their access to new types of tobacco products will remain as limited as with respect to traditional tobacco products. In addition, if the manufacturers of these products demonstrate with scientific skill that they are indeed products that are significantly less harmful, it may be possible, following a separate decision by the government concerning the establishment of procedural rules, to allow for the disclosure of products within the tobacco store. Let us note that the government's aim remains to make it possible for fewer and fewer people to smoke and to stop smoking completely and permanently. To this end, we intend to take all necessary measures in the future, and we will propose them to the Parliament. However, the government does not, in principle, object to the fact that consumers who are already smoking obviously harmful tobacco are being transferred to products that are less harmful within the tobacco store, but only if there is real scientific evidence that these products are less harmful or, as the e-cigi-lobby claims, they are helping to quit. The government cannot and cannot take responsibility for declaring one or another less harmful without evidence simply because of the fact that some lobby groups put forces capable of expressing their views behind certain products. Therefore, the bill provides that a medical team of expert toxicologists will decide on this matter within the framework of a committee to which manufacturers or distributors will be obliged to provide scientific evidence. Of course, the bill also provides that after the new categories of tobacco products, as tobacco products are involved, there should be some obligation to pay excise duty. The Government proposes that the excise duty payable on these products should be similar to that on electronic cigarettes. Finally, I would like to make it clear that the bill makes it compulsory that all tobacco products that are now or in the future marketed in Hungary and may have been marketed outside the tobacco store, such as tubas known to everyone from Pál Street boys, can only be marketed in specialised tobacco shops. In this way, the availability of young people for tobacco products will be fully restricted. Honourable Members, At the same time, we are proposing to amend the Traffic Act not only for greater protection of minors. Another important reason is that we propose to the Parliament that the proposals be put forward as a result of the consultation between the European Commission and the Hungarian Government. As we know, the Honourable Parliament introduced the tobacco retail supply system when the Traffic Act was amended in 2015. The reason for this was that retailers had made a number of complaints to the government and the Hungarian Competition Authority about the abuse of their dominant position by wholesalers, in this case multinational tobacco companies. In many cases, if one of the tobacco retailers refused to accept unilateral contractual terms imposed by international tobacco companies, he was at a disadvantage: they were not or rarely served up. They offered inexpensive financial terms and ultimately aimed at making these tobacco stores impossible. However, the GVH did not have any legal means to deal with complaints that were otherwise known within the framework of the legislation at that time. This is why we have decided to seek another solution: by taking a measure that is just necessary and proportionate, the introduction of the tobacco supplier has made it impossible for tobacco companies to continue to put retailers in a vulnerable position. It is important that the wholesale trade in tobacco products has not been abolished by the tobacco supplier, the wholesale market has not been nationalised by the 2014 law on integrated supply of tobacco retailers. The only thing that has happened is that tobacco wholesalers are not allowed to deliver their goods directly to the trades; all other activities, price determinations, the development of their trade policy can continue to be carried out themselves, as well as wholesale activities between themselves or services not covered by the Traffic Act; airports, prisons. Although it can now be clearly established that the tobacco supplier has fulfilled its expectations, as it has indeed addressed the problem on which the regulation was set up, and now tobacco companies that had previously opposed the measure recognise that the system is operating safely, with their interests in mind, they saw the situation differently in 2015. In the summer of 2015, international tobacco companies turned to the European Commission to request the suspension of the measure and to propose an urgent infringement procedure. Although the Commission has not opened a formal procedure, it has called on the representatives of the government to consult under the so-called pilot procedure. Dear Parliament, I am pleased to inform you that the negotiations on domestic tobacco regulation in Brussels have been successful for Hungary. The domestic tobacco market rules remain completely unchanged in substance, since the Commission has not raised any substantive objections to the regulation in general. The objections that have been considered, in particular the proposals to eliminate any State aid that may be prohibited and the additional guarantee rules ensuring the competitive neutrality of the tobacco supplier, have been considered and partially accepted. Accordingly, we propose to the honourable Parliament that we allow the following, as requested by the Commission. Widen up the state company responsible for tobacco trade, National Tobacco Trading Nonprofit Zrt. the power to act as an intermediary in the event of potential market disputes. Let us make it possible because it is currently prohibited that, if tobacco companies and the tobacco supplier have agreed on this, tobacco companies can benefit from a competitive neutral trade refund. [[18.00]] Let us ensure that the concession fee is billed in accordance with a formula agreed with the Commission for the future that guarantees that there will be no prohibited State aid in the tobacco supply company. Finally, we guarantee by data protection provisions that the tobacco supplier cannot obtain data from the wholesaler that is not closely related to the supplier's activities. It is clear from all of this that the Commission's needs are fair, almost friendly, and at no point contradict the government's current or previous intentions. I believe that these adjustments can, on the one hand, reassure both the tobacco market and the European Commission, while they do not represent a concession at all, a meaningful change compared to the government's previous regulatory intentions. Dear Parliament, It should be noted that the situation between the government and the Commission in relation to tobacco regulation can serve as a positive example. It can be seen that, where appropriate, there is a way to represent Hungarian interests in uniform professional and policy matters in Brussels without needing substantial concessions. Even if we are faced with an industry with a strong lobbying, such as the international tobacco industry, which is known to have a good network of contacts within the Commission. The government will continue to work to achieve as much success in Brussels as it has in tobacco regulation. I believe that we have a good chance of doing this in other, even far greater, cases. Dear House, The legislative package before us contains other amendments, which can generally be described as technical amendments. Following the protection of minors and the agreement concluded with the Union, the third main regulatory reason was an appropriate legislative response to daily practical questions. However, the tobacco retail system, which has been in place since 2013, still does not require any substantial change. One of these changes is the 2014 XCIV on the health contribution of tobacco companies in 2015. Repeal of law. As is known, the application of this law has been suspended by the Commission's Commissioner for Competition, as according to the Commission, revenue-based progressive taxation results in prohibited State aid. In this case, the Commission has conducted the detailed procedure and should repeal this law in the light of its final decision this summer. I would like to make it clear that the repeal of this law, despite appearances, is a technical decision for at least three reasons. On the one hand, Hungary has brought a lawsuit against the Commission's decision to suspend the law, and it has not yet been decided in this case, and this may have a positive result. On the other hand, according to the Government's decision, we intend to attack, together with other Member States, the Commission's position in principle that revenue-based progressive tax would be contrary to EU law. Since the Commission has in the meantime hit Poland with similar measures in relation to a retail special tax there, they will certainly be our primary allies in this battle against Brussels. Thirdly, instead of the progressive taxation that is now to be repealed, the government has invented and has also agreed with the Commission another special tax on the tobacco industry, which would add a new face to all areas that help to get used to smoking or make it more difficult to quit. These are so-called slim cigarettes, menthol cigarettes or light products. In other words, on the one hand, we have not given up on the previous measure, and on the other hand, the new special tax agreed with the Commission against the tobacco industry is ready if it is necessary to introduce it. We see that, after the government's victories, which it could undoubtedly and undoubtedly reap with the full re-regulation of the tobacco market both at home and in the EU, we can now afford to wait until now for another special tax to be introduced. As you can see, the government is continuing its gradual fight against smoking, but as long as the government's health policy objectives can be fully achieved, we plan to regulate the tobacco market by applying an appropriate excise duty policy instead of another special tax. However, we do not shy away from the new version of the special taxes, which has already been negotiated with the Commission, if, for any reason, this would later be necessary. Dear Parliament, I am convinced that the Tobacco Control Package will provide all parties concerned with appropriate answers to today's open questions on tobacco regulation. For the government, the finalization of the results achieved, the strict but predictable policy for tobacco companies and the consistent representation of health policy objectives for all Members of Parliament bear the promise that the bill before us is in everyone's best interests. I urge you to continue working together in efforts to reduce smoking and to support the bill. Thank you for your attention for 22 minutes and 43 seconds.
u2016-10-11-126	Thank you very much, Secretary of State Csepreghy. Dear Parliament, Now we're going to hear the speeches from the lead speaker. First, I give the floor to Mr Tamás László, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group.
u2016-10-11-127	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, As you remember and have just said, the National Assembly adopted CXXXIV on reducing the smoking of young people and on the retail trade in tobacco products in autumn 2011. A law aimed at protecting people under the age of 18, and to hand over tobacco retail to Hungarian companies instead of multinational companies. Experience in recent years has fundamentally demonstrated the correctness of the idea of reducing tobacco trafficking in general and underage smoking in particular by means of a new instrument, a strict restriction on tobacco supply channels. We have constantly adapted the legislation to life, implemented minor amendments to the amending legislation adopted on 11 December 2012, in which the rules on the appearance of tobacco shops and the concession tender have been clarified and the scope of products marketed has been extended. Law I of 2013 allowed further changes to allow tobacco shops to market alcoholic beverages, coffee, energy drinks, newspapers, mineral water and soft drinks to cover tobacco retail activities. The May 2013 amendment set the margin at 10 per cent and clarified the rules for the tendering of tobacco trade concessions and provided that a new tender should be launched no later than 36 months after the first unsuccessful or at least one repeated procedure. A fall 2014 amendment clarified the right of the State to determine how concession retailers acquire tobacco products in the context of the regulation of retail trade in tobacco products. This regulation did not result in the monopoly of wholesale tobacco products. Wholesalers could continue to carry out their core activities aimed at the release of tobacco products for free circulation in Hungary. From this point on, purchasing and supply tasks could have been carried out either by the State or by the company authorised by the State under a concession contract, the so-called tobacco supplier. The amendment before us is explained by similar aspects as before. Since we are in constant contact and are negotiating with tobacco retailers, I would therefore like to respond to the problems they have raised. The proposal therefore serves only to further clarify and fine-tuning certain provisions of the law. The aim of the proposal is to make trade in new tobacco products - electric cigarettes, heating tobacco products, cartridge products - available on the market subject to a controlled framework. Since the spread of these products is expected to be intense in the near future, they are already partly widespread in neighbouring countries and could currently be sold or promoted without restriction in Hungary, it is therefore necessary to limit sales in order to protect minors and to prevent habit in general. The bill with this is 214/40. It also takes into account and amends the list and definition of tobacco products in the relevant legislation. On the basis of the proposal, retailing of electric cigarettes and smokeless and other tobacco products will only continue in the future in compliance with the rules of the Tobacco Act. [[18.10]] The legislation eliminates the provision allowing the subjective assessment of compliance with the obligation to sell in a way that is excluded from the law by young people. In addition, the proposal extends the National Tobacco Trading Nonprofit Zrt. its powers, which in the future may thus serve as mediation tasks in disputes that may arise between market participants. The Act authorises the setting of rules for the electronic distribution and presentation of products with modified effects by separate legislation. These are expected to be stricter than the EU directives require, which means that they will only be able to promote their new products if they can really prove that they are less harmful than traditional tobacco products. The proposal also aims to include additional guarantee elements in the tobacco retail scheme. Thus, for example, the company supplying the tramps will not be able to request all the data from distributors and manufacturers, and a sectoral conciliation forum may also be established. It will also be possible for all distributors and manufacturers to benefit from the tobacco retail supplier, since the proposal would introduce a traffic-based distribution system. Finally, the draft legislation repeals, in addition to the above, the 2014 XCIV on the health contribution of tobacco companies in 2015. law, as it is not compatible with EU legislation in its present form. Dear House, I think that the proposal before us reflects carefully on the recent experiences, comments and recommendations of the European Union in the tobacco retail house, so please provide their support. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2016-10-11-128	Thank you very much, Congressman Tamás László. I now give the floor to Mr Csaba Tóth, the lead speaker of the MSZP Group.
u2016-10-11-129	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, In 22 minutes 43 seconds, Mr Secretary of State has summarized the events of the past four years on the measures taken to reduce smoking or on behalf of it. I'd like to summarize the events of the past four years from a different perspective on what has happened. It was said that Parliament adopted on 11 September 2012 a law on the control of smoking of minors and the retail trade in tobacco products. At that time, according to the law, the competent minister established a private limited company company with a 100% state-owned non-profit-making function to carry out statutory tasks, such as promoting the organisation of tobacco retail trade, issuing applications for admission to retail trade in tobacco products, and preparing for the conclusion of the concession contract. The company started its activities after its establishment on 29 October 2012. The government also provided them with sufficient funds, as it provided HUF 450 million in its government decision of 11 October 2012. Then the National Tobacco Trading Company. In order to cover its operation in 2013, it was entitled to another HUF 400 million of state aid and received the amount of concession fees received in 2013 as a final transfer of funds, which was more than HUF 1 billion. The company then received another HUF 506 million state aid for its operation in 2014. It worked well, as it generated a loss of HUF 258 million in 2014 and HUF 254 million in 2015, thus closing the two years. Applications for SME tobacco products should have been issued for the first time by 15 November 2012 at the latest, with a deadline of 60 days at the time. However, the invitation to tender was only published on 15 December 2012, with a deadline for submission on 13 February 2013. It was also necessary to postpone the announcement at the time, since on 11 December 2012, Parliament had already amended the law and, in addition to tobacco products, allowed the sale of lottery and scratch lottery tickets. It was already apparent that the transformation of the whole tobacco market was an unthinkable, hasty legislative process, subject to momentary ideas and interests. The law was amended several times because it was recognised that the original law was inoperable, in particular to cover the retail activity of tobacco products. Therefore, the product scope of tobacco shops was later supplemented by the distribution of energy drinks, soft drinks, mineral water, spirits, newspapers, magazines, and coffee. However, it was already apparent that the whole Traffic Act was all about the redistribution of the tobacco market of nearly 500 billion at the time, which was hidden behind a falsely supported goal, because indeed, reducing smoking by young people must be an important objective to be supported. The same important goal should have been to give preference to the evaluation of applications, as promised, who had changed in working capacity or who had been seeking employment for at least three months. In addition, it was also promised that former experienced traffic owners would enjoy an advantage. Nearly nothing of these has been achieved, since there are nearly five thousand transformers operating 41 units in total. It is also an important objective to reduce the consumption of tobacco products. On the other hand, we see that the number of smokers is increasing on a regular basis. In the second quarter of this year, nearly HUF 152 billion was spent on tobacco products, which exceeds HUF 144.2 billion in the same period last year by 5.4 percent. Of course, if we assume that more people choose cheaper tobacco, the amount smoked could have increased even more. The share of tobacco sales in total retail trade is also increasing year after year, and now in the second quarter, the spending of 152 billion was 6.5 percent of the total 2340 billion retail turnover, while a year earlier this rate was 6.44 and 6.39 percent before that. This means that cigarettes are an important element of the Hungarian consumer basket, which must be bought by people. We also know that in the poorest households, the share of money spent on cigarettes and drinks is higher than that of wealthy families. According to a health survey published by the Hungarian Central Statistical Office last year, a quarter of Hungarian women and a third of men smoke regularly. In men, the young adult age group is almost twice as large, with 42 percent smokers as among young people. This shows a significant increase compared to 36 percent in 2009. Smoking-related mortality rates are also outstanding among Hungarians. According to the World Health Organization's calculations, the mortality rate per 100,000 inhabitants in Hungary is 411.5, which is more than twice the average of EU countries. According to a recent study in England, the use of electric cigarettes helps to reduce the number of smokers. [[István Szávay: That's right.]] In Britain, e-cigarette sales are constantly increasing, with almost 3 million people now using them. In recent years, the British who wanted to quit switched the nicotine patch and chewing gum into e-cigarettes. According to the English public health service, e-cigarettes are 95 percent less harmful than normal cigarettes, and when used in combination with smoking cessation programs, most smokers help to quit. However, in our country, who wants to quit using electric cigarettes in the future may not have the opportunity to do so. With the current amendment of the law, electric cigarettes and new types of tobacco products could now only be purchased in national tobacco shops. From the beginning of November, however, according to the decree of the Ministry of Human Resources, electric cigarettes can only be placed on the market by paying an administrative service fee of HUF 475 thousand. The fee shall be paid by brand and by strength to the National Institute of Pharmacy and Food Health. The fee is OGYÉI's income, which will be handled separately in your records. In the event of withdrawal or refusal of the application, the fee paid shall not be refunded by OGYÉI. [[18.20]] The Regulation also lays down administrative and service charges for notifications of refills and electronic means of making smoking available on the market, which are the same as for electronic cigarettes. When reporting a change in marketing, 306,000 forints per brand and strength should be paid for the various products. This will be a burden for the Trafiks, which will be a serious obstacle to e-cigarettes' trade, and if a tramp wants to keep a proper selection in his business, it will cost him up to 10 million forints of authorisation. This will make it completely impossible to spread and market e-cigarettes. The question arises as to how this amendment of the law will achieve the most important objective of reducing underage smoking in Hungary, which is a major public health objective, so that, in the medium and long term, the state of public health of the whole Hungarian society will also improve significantly by reducing smoking among minors. It remains a question of what kind of prevention activity will be linked to reducing smoking among young people as target groups. This amendment of certain laws on the control of smoking of young people and on tobacco retail and tobacco control will not help to reduce smoking of young people in our view, and we therefore do not support this. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2016-10-11-130	Thank you very much, Congressman Csaba Tóth. I now give the floor to Mr István Szávay, the lead speaker of the Jobbik Group. You have a 15-minute window, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2016-10-11-131	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, The bill before us contains mainly drafting points. However, many technical amendments contain some essential points, but unfortunately only a small proportion of these changes actually serve the objective set on behalf of the amending package, namely to reduce smoking. The proposal aims to better define reduced-risk tobacco products and prepare for their forthcoming market introduction. Last autumn, the laws we are discussing were last modified by the Parliament, causing many outrages. Consumers then organised hundreds of protests on Kossuth Square, their representatives are still present, and they are following the debate in person from Jobbik's box. The biggest victims of these changes, Mr Secretary of State, are consumers, with this proposal, the government is kicking back into e-cigarette users. We have already said it in last year's debate, and we cannot stress that these consumers are not actually smokers, they cannot be treated and sanctioned in the same way as traditional tobacco users. In our view, electric cigarettes are not used to smoking, but, on the contrary, they help to quit, and they have a negligible health risk during use, and this risk will be further reduced for non-Nicotine cigarettes. What's happened in the last year? Then let me give you a third reading. The government has passed dozens of electronic cigarettes trades and the exclusive right of sale to national tobacco shops across the country, which has been condemned to be closed by law. More clearly, Mr Secretary, you have redistributed a 5-6 billion forint market among your friends. Drastically, they narrowed the stock, effectively eliminating one of the biggest attractions, variety and diversity of e-cigs, as there was much more choice than this type of product, so everyone could find the right device and the right taste refill. They were chasing e-cigi users among smokers, forcing the effects of passive smoking on them, and exposing those who left out their tobacco products to seduction, making it difficult for them to quit. It's like sending the alcoholic to the pub, but we're telling him he can't drink alcohol. Internet stores that sell electric cigarettes have been abolished, making it difficult to quit smoking and putting consumers who cannot get to tobacco stores that also sell electric cigarettes in a particularly difficult situation. Due to the closings of the store and the narrowing of the supply, users have often been forced to obtain their favourite flavourful refill fluid and their e-cigi device by illegal means. In addition to the increase in the proportion of black trade as a result of the amendment - go to Szabolcs, Mr State Secretary, look at how many people have lived at that time and how many people are now living in black trade - users are also at serious risk as the use of products of unknown origin can pose a high health risk. Dear Parliament, If we really want to improve the country's public health situation and really reduce the deaths associated with smoking, then we should amend this law with the opposite sign: by removing electric cigarettes from tobacco products and removing the sanctions and additional burdens that have been imposed. A number of international studies have also been carried out on the health impact of e-cigarettes and a number of research has been carried out. I would like to draw attention to only two studies that may be the most significant of the past period. One is the 200-page work of the Royal College of English doctors, and I hold it in my hand, Mr. Secretary of State. [[He's showing it to me.]] This is, by the way, one of the world's most prestigious professional health organizations. The other is the representative Eurobarometer analysis of Dr. Konstantinos Falsalinos and his associates. English doctors' research has shown that electric cigarettes are used only in small quantities by non-smokers, which means that e-cigi does not help to get used to regular tobacco products. A significant majority of users use it as a means of helping to quit smoking, as said by the users themselves, Mr Secretary of State. This fact is supported by statistics that e-cigi is the most popular means of quitting. Doctors have also shown that traditional nicotine patches, which are marketed by large pharmaceutical companies, can only be successful by other additional means, such as electric cigarettes. They also pointed out that they generally contain 95 percent less health-damaging products compared to their counterparts containing traditional cut tobacco. This ratio is expected to decrease further in the future thanks to technological developments. British research has also shown that the primary objective of individual states should be to promote electric cigarettes. Let us highlight another very important factor: the more regular smokers switch to this tool, the less they need to spend on later health care for smokers, leaving more money in health care, which could be used for a number of other important improvements, such as hospital renovations. So, let's say, it could be prevented, for example, by the worm shower at the hospital in Győr or by the incident at the hospital in Orosháza, when dove carcasses rotting into the urological operating room fell from the ceiling. Dear Secretary of State, Dear Parliament, According to Eurobarometer's research, in 2014, around 6.1 million citizens of the European Union completely quit smoking with the help of electric cigarettes, and another 9 million were the ones who reduced the consumption of cut tobacco products thanks to this tool. The research also discusses the extent to which electric cigarettes have been tested by non-smokers. That ratio is 1.3 percent, Mr. Secretary of State. 1.3 percent! This also shows that the number of people who use this device to get used to smoking is negligible. 35.1 percent of European e-cigi consumers have completely stopped taking nicotine, so they use nicotine-free refill fluid and 32.2 percent have reduced their intake of nicotine into their system. It is also important to emphasise this now because my fellow government Members and Secretary of State Ónodi-Szűcs came up with the exact opposite arguments during last autumn's debate, not to mention that they could not support it with facts and research, just as they gave their own opinion, for example, that they believe that e-cigi is the prelude to smoking. These studies also contradict this point in substance. But by the way, Secretary of State Csepreghy is also heavily at odds with the relevant terms, when he consistently spoke of electronic cigarettes instead of electric cigarettes, or when he said heated instead of heating. In the light of these two researches, it is therefore particularly cynical that the justification for the proposal before us is that it will only be possible to establish different rules for the distribution of electric cigarettes compared to normal tobacco products if it is scientifically demonstrated that e-cigi really reduces the harmful consequences of smoking. [[18.30]] As I said, last autumn, in the debate on the previous legislative amendment proposal, we heard rather weak arguments from the governing parties against electric cigarettes. Among other things, they referred to studies where the main argument was that a girl in America suffered severe burns when the electric cigarette battery exploded during charging. It is not difficult to see that we are dealing with a rather weak pseudonym, which has nothing to do with the actual harmful effects of smoking. Or if that is a real argument, then I suggest that we ban the use of mobile phones, because unfortunately, many mobile phone batteries have been blown up, not even one recently, or even one of them, which are supposed to have been replaced by manufacturers. I have already drawn attention to a number of foreign research projects dealing with the real facts last year, and I have presented two serious studies, but there are all indications that you do not have these publications at your disposal, so at the end of my speech I will be able to provide copies of them to the Secretary of State in order to be able to study them thoroughly. Ladies and gentlemen, As the research presented above confirms, the biggest problem with the legislative amendment proposal before us is that it will not reduce the number of smokers in Hungary, despite any tightening up. The sanctions imposed so far by e-cigi and which will enter into force after the adoption of the proposal will increase the camp of users of cut tobacco. This has a negative impact on the health of consumers and the environment, narrowing down a market that, in the opinion of recognised professionals, can also provide solutions to the reduction of tobacco-related diseases. With all this, whatever you say, Mr Secretary, tobacco companies are placed in a better position by you, who are already interested in the production of new products. These are defined in the bill as new tobacco products. It has been shown that smoking smoke contains the most toxic substances, and this is what is most harmful to health in addition to nicotine. Among other things, e-cigi has made factories worldwide interested, becoming interested in producing products that have lower adverse effects on health. These are the new tobacco products for which they try to eliminate smoke during use, which heat tobacco in these products at a lower temperature, resulting in less harmful substances in the body. However, it is important to note that these products are often more harmful than electric cigarettes. The proposal would only be acceptable to us if electric cigarettes were permanently removed from the category of tobacco products. However, the direction is wrong. Instead of helping the government to make this quitting aid more widespread among smokers, it wants to impose a penalty-like excise duty on the necessary refilling fluids. Currently, the price of good e-liquids in Hungary is around HUF 50-60 per ml. There were previous news reports about the tax rates planned for these, which were 55 forints, then 65 forints. The current proposal already contains HUF 70 per ml. This means, Mr. Secretary, that the price of these rechargers will increase more than double, to HUF 1600-3200 instead of HUF 800-1600. This measure therefore also leads to the return of users of e-cigarettes to traditional tobacco products. This is confirmed by the EMMI 30/2016. The recently adopted regulation on administrative service charges for the marketing and reporting of changes to electrical cigarettes, refill containers and smoking equipment. According to the regulation, the placing on the market of electric cigarettes and refill bottles per brand and strength, as my fellow Member has already said, will cost HUF 475 thousand. According to the e-cigi users, one of the main arguments for healthier use was that they could choose from a much wider range of flavours compared to traditional cigarettes, thus making use more varied. This provision will also result in a drastic reduction of supply. For example, buy 100 rechargers with different flavours, this is what we can talk about in Hungary today, and there is a nicotine-free and nicotine-free version per taste, and even nicotine strength can change. So this is at least 300 if not more than a variety of products with a marketing fee of no less than 142 million HUF 500 thousand under the regulation. However, this Regulation will not enter into force until the beginning of November, so I call on the authorities to act in order to protect our health until it is too late and to withdraw this pointless regulation which is completely contrary to its objectives. Dear Parliament, Fellow Members! Mr. Secretary. We welcome, of course, the points of the amendment concerning the reduction of underage smoking. Of course, we agree with them ourselves. To sum up, however, the Jobbik Movement for Hungary cannot support the proposal before us, as it does not strive for smokers to live a healthier life. So, to put down the products containing the tobacco cut and to switch to other alternatives that are not harmful to health or only significantly less harmful, or to stop smoking altogether. In my view, the government should strive to improve the health of people substantially and to lose the lives of as few people as possible as possible as a result of the diseases caused by smoking. On the other hand, we see that Fidesz continues to have more important interests than this, as well as lobbying for some tobacco and pharmaceutical giants. This proposal actually serves them. On the other hand, Jobbik wants to stand by consumers, e-cigarette users, and this means a healthier and freer Hungary. Thank you for listening to me; and I would like to present to Mr State Secretary the two prestigious international studies already cited. Please read and consider what is contained in it. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik. István Szávay gives the documents to Nándor Csepreghy.]]
u2016-10-11-132	Thank you very much, Congressman Savay. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. I give the floor to Congressman Nándor Gúr, MSZP.
u2016-10-11-133	Thank you very much, Mr. President. It is thoughtless, controversial what they are doing in this regard, the easiest thing to do would be to withdraw from this story. There shouldn't be much variation on this, Mr. Secretary. Look, the fact that we've come to the point that there's not a percentage of the previous owners in the tobacco business today is just awful. Of course, it is not a coincidence, because if I look at the business of my own small-scale country, Miskolc, Borsod-Abaúj-Zemplén county, Miskolc won 20 out of the 80 concessions by two Fidesz municipal representatives and their family members. You understand the numbers, don't you? So, there's no coincidence in the processes that are taking place. And it's no coincidence that in the case of e-cigarettes, there's such a thing as tagging buddies. So it's all going to be among the friends, and they're banishing everyone, taking away all kinds of opportunities from everyone. Look, if the weight loss man is sent to the bakery to buy mineral water, then that's a similar type of story you guys are making. So I have to say, the line of action that they're doing in this regard is crappy. They're not acting for the good of the people, they're acting against them. While national tobacco shops have been opened even for schools, I can say with a calm spirit, because there are examples from NewBuda to Csepel. How about the black market, Mr. Secretary? Do you walk in Budapest if not elsewhere? Of course, I know they're using the chopper to use the Audi, but if you walk, you can see how and how the sale is done. About how the profits related to the protection of young people or to smuggling from Zahony to Budapest? Who are you protecting? They're protecting themselves slowly. Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary.
u2016-10-11-134	Thank you very much, Congressman. I'll give the floor to Congressman Lajos Rig for two minutes, Jobbik.
u2016-10-11-135	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. This amendment or proposal has already been discussed with regard to the amendment of the Health Act, then several arguments have been made in favour and against it. There have been arguments that tobacco shops should use e-cigarettes and smoking tools to protect minors, children and non-smokers. That's understandable. But why can't you find a simpler way to do that, so that specialized shops, where you can get these tools, where professionals have enlightened you about the use of people who come in there, and we're filming them? [[18.40]] Let us create the same condition that children cannot go in there, and then everything is resolved, everything can go back to normal. And there have been arguments that this is very dangerous to health, and these products are very harmful, because they contain nicotine. In my opinion, it is far more dangerous for one parent to try to quit smoking with nicotine chewing gum and leave it at the front of the table. And a 9-10-year-old starts chewing it because he can't tell whether it's nicotine-containing or regular chewing gum. Now, there's a danger in that, we've seen that you've had an overdose of nicotine from the use of an underage drug. And then, for example, the child can't enter the pharmacy, because he also meets nicotine-containing patches, meets nicotine-containing spray, and meets nicotine-containing chewing gum. This is about nothing more than what my fellow Member Savay has said, just to make tobacco concessions as swollen as possible and to earn as much income as possible. I believe that the previous solution, our proposal, would have been much better if they had left these in the specialised shops and were foiled. Cheaper, safer and more manageable. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2016-10-11-136	Thank you very much, Congressman. I'll ask if anyone else wants to take a stand. [[No signal.]] I don't see any contact. Dear Parliament, The general debate is closed and I will ask the rapporteur if he wishes to respond to what was said in the debate. Mr. Secretary of State says yes. I give the floor to Secretary of State Nándor Csepreghy.
u2016-10-11-137	Mr President, Thank you very much for the floor. E-cigi, electric cigarettes - I've learned the exact definition [[István Szávay: The Ministry doesn't know either.]] If that were the biggest problem, then I think everyone would be satisfied with the way the country works - most of the issues have been addressed, let me also respond to the proposals on MSZP. On the one hand, when trade was at a lower rate, whether due to black trade or for other reasons, Mr President, the MSZP fraction called for excise duty to be lost on the government. When we see statistics that indicate that the proportion of cut tobacco sold from 12 to 6 percent of the black trade has decreased, then they start to worry that the increase that is statistically apparent is related to increasing smoking, not to the fact that the black trade has been cleared to a significant extent, not entirely, what international statistics justify. I think it is very important to say one thing: the government would be happiest if the excise duty from tobacco products were zero forints because no one smokes in Hungary today. That would be the ideal condition. So compared to this, any number that is higher, I think that it can only encourage legislators to try to reduce smoking by all the means at their disposal, even if it is a utopian idea that this could be realised. I think we should be proud of the figures that come from international statistics and domestic statistics, which show that the proportion of smokers per day has decreased by 1 percent, the proportion of occasional smokers has dropped from 28 to 12 percent, and, yes, a significant improvement has been achieved in the case of young people as well. When you ask on the government that the National Tobacco Trading Company. let me suggest to you that a lot of measures, a lot of tasks have come to the National Tobacco Trading Corporation as a result of discussions with the European Commission, including the issue of control. Mr Gúr, I understand that I am sorry, I may be mistaken, you were Secretary of State for some years of the period 2002-2010. [[Nándor Gúr: You're wrong.]] But you certainly know what kind of motor vehicles were used by the then governmental actors compared to the current one, then the use of Audis and Mercedes in the government fleet was typical. For the sake of accuracy, it is worth noting that the State Secretarys and Ministers are using Škodas today to carry out their duties. But also allow me to respond to the more serious arguments made by Congressman Savay. I believe that if the allegations that you have made and which are also revealed in these documents are true - I promise you that my colleagues will look at this during the debate - then, I think, no one has reason to fear the debate that we can conduct transparently, in today's Hungarian public opinion, on whether it can really be justified empirically, not by conviction, empirically, that, in the case of electric cigarettes, the health-damaging effect that one camp assumes, and the other camp assumes that it is not, and if it is not, I can say here, I dare say that the government is open to liberalising regulation on electric cigarettes which you believe is too offensive. So here I would ask you to take part in this debate and to be scientifically justified either by your statement or by our presumption, and then to reopen the debate, where appropriate, if your position in this professional debate can be scientifically justified on this issue. [[István Szávay: This is the only way consumers are involved.]] It is clear, but I think that this must stand within a scientific framework, and I think that this must be a debate that many people can participate in according to different interests. As far as small pastilles are concerned, they have been included in this circle as a result of the transposition of an EU directive, and it is worth asking the European Commission, where appropriate, and putting them on the agenda with MEPs. I apologize for the semiotic errors, and I consider your idea of banning mobile phones to be considered, and people may have more time to talk to each other face to face than through mobile phones. Thank you, Mr President, for the opportunity to speak.
u2016-10-11-138	Thank you very much, Secretary of State Csepreghy. Dear Parliament, The amendments can be tabled by Thursday at 4 p.m. and I am now giving the floor to Mr Nándor Gúr, who is applying for the order of business.
u2016-10-11-139	No, just for clarity's sake, Mr. President, just for clarity's sake, so that Secretary of State doesn't make the mistake next time. I wasn't a secretary of state for any government, I was invited, but I wasn't. There were times when I didn't do it, there were times when life made things different. So the lack of knowledge, the lack of knowledge, I want you to be able to put it in its place, and that's why I told you the information. By the way, if you've reached out to me, I'd like to point out that what I was talking about is a factual story, you know, a helicopter is a factual story, and everything else I'm talking about is a factual story.
u2016-10-11-140	Thank you very much. He was talking about involvement in the order of business. Thank you very much.
u2016-10-11-141	I suggest, Mr Secretary, that you always use what is right in this regard.
u2016-10-11-142	Thank you very much. Secretary Csepreghy!
u2016-10-11-143	Thank you, Mr. President. In fact, in short, this is proof that I was wrong; and, Mr President, when he did not accept this request, he was still able to make wise decisions. Thank you very much.
u2016-10-11-144	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the discussion of our agendas today. It is now time for the speeches after the agenda. Anita Heringes, Ms MSZP, applied for a post-meeting speech; I will give the floor in five minutes with a title on current affairs. You have the floor.
u2016-10-11-145	Thank you very much for the floor. Although this genre, the speeches after the agenda, could also be said to be the hour of rhetorical questions when one wishes to raise current questions as an opposition representative, but I thought that here between the walls of Parliament, one day before Wednesday, Tuesday evening, I would raise the subject that we will be discussing tomorrow, in case I can get some substantive answers to that tomorrow. After all, I have spoken a number of times over the past few years that I do not understand what the government's problem is with the waste management system. I don't understand why they want to completely destroy this system, I don't understand why they had to take apart an otherwise functioning system and put it together so that only the friends would benefit from it. I mean, I mean, I just don't want to understand, 'cause I kind of don't want to live in a country like this, where my friends decide how a well-functioning system is to be dismantled and reassembled. [[18.50]] On 1 April, the accounting company, the company responsible for national waste management, was set up, whose only task would be to maintain, operate the waste management system according to the company's website, to collect public service charges, to pay public services and to manage outstanding liabilities. I've repeatedly suggested that I don't understand why this company is going to be able to do better on their outflow management. Will you work better than the NAV, which has been responsible for this task so far? Will you work better than local waste management companies, which have been non-profit-making local government-owned companies, and where, by the way, because they were closer to the population, did they want to do their job more accurately and regularly? On April 1, this company was set up, which had nothing to do with it since April 1st, but to send out cheques for the garbage delivery fee. He hasn't done this in a number of places to this day. To date, the public has not received a single check since April 1st. As I said, this is the hour of rhetorical questions, because now it's only on the notary and presidential bench, so I can't expect anyone from the government to answer my questions about why this company had to be set up. The only thing we can see clearly is that these tasks, which have been given to this company, have somehow and only been won by close-to-government or close-to-counsel companies. So far, there have been settlements where sending a check cost 50 HUF. Now that companies of Magyar Posta's interest are going to do these works, it will cost 160 HUF from now on to send a check. I don't know where you can better understand for the taxpayers how this will be more sustainable and how it will be better. I don't think you can. I have told you several times that the company was established on April 1, where their main task was to hire 58 people, who, on average, bring home HUF 410 thousand a month. They also had a very important task of purchasing top-of-the-line motor vehicles, and of having them sign up for public procurement. One in three people managed to buy a top-of-the-line car for a company that only had one job to bill. That's exactly what you're not doing. In addition, we managed to rent an office for 3 and a half million forints a month, because there certainly wasn't enough room for them in the ministries. Ladies and gentlemen. The main problem is that the government doesn't care that much. The only thing he cares about is that his pockets should be as full as possible, that his friends should live as well as possible, and, of course, as we have said several times here in Parliament today and yesterday, there are no problems with helicopters. Tomorrow, we will talk about the work of public service companies and how they will continue to solve the task that waste management companies have been required to send out checks, to whom they can send checks, what data they can use and what data they can manage. The problem is, we won't be able to solve this problem tomorrow. I really tried here after today's agenda to see if anyone on the government could hear my word, see if they would ever withdraw this law, and create a law with the profession that would be sustainable, which would really be about making this area work, not about friends, not about Fidesz companies, but about people. Ladies and gentlemen, I think that's why we were sent here, not for anything else. Thank you very much.
u2016-10-11-146	Thank you very much, Congresswoman Anita Heringes. Dear Parliament, I now give the floor to Mr László György Lukács, Jobbik:. Kehes Kehis cases - with 2 billion dollars in damage to the avian influenza address. You have the floor for five minutes.
u2016-10-11-147	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Bitter, or sick - it may not be necessary to tell someone who has knowledge of horse sickness. I don't want to push this part of the speech too hard, because I'm not a veterinarian, but in the popular language, kehés means that something is wrong, it's indisposed, it's bad. The reason why this Kehi case, or one of the Kehi investigations, has to be dealt with in this sense is because it is a matter of health. My fellow Member Gábor Staudt revealed last week the series of inquiries that contained 66 cases and in which Kehi initiated an investigation into corruption cases. The 66 cases that practically didn't go anywhere ended with any tangible results, only with the termination of the investigation, these 66 cases were found in damages of HUF 55 billion, so the authorities missed the search for damages or sums of HUF 55 billion. But this is interesting for us in that they may all remember, now it is almost a ten-year-old event, what avian influenza meant in Hungary at the time. This was actually a hit at the end of 2005, when, by the way, we received more and more information about the virus spreading among birds from the Far East. I quote a 2006 summer headline:. The EU laboratory in Great Britain confirmed that H5N1 is highly contagious and in extreme cases avian influenza virus that is a danger to humans is infected in South Hungary. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Well, this infection has been picked up by the media in South Hungary, news has come, and we've come to the point of developing a so-called hype around it, and everyone has completely taken it. Five hundred volunteers were vaccinated, so everyone was fully identified with the risk of the virus. It was a memorable scene when Jenő Rácz, Minister of Health at the time, László Bujdosó, national chief of staff, and Mihály Kökény, a public health official, were vaccinated with this vaccine one by one. And, of course, where there's trouble, those who are good for trouble come along. The company that produced Omninves, which offered the most effective, best solution for this sudden infection option, has also appeared. Omninvest had already received substantial State aid in the years before H5N1, while the company itself managed public funds, received public funds and undertaken to intervene offshore companies. At the time, the nature of the vaccine production contract behind the avian influenza was also very interesting, as the company itself could produce these vaccines on the basis of a commission of HUF 2 billion in support from the National Research and Technology Office. Avian influenza vaccine business started and lasted until the amount had not to be repaid due to the presence of the media or the media pressure, as well as opposition research. Finally, the case came to the conclusion that, following the well-deserved decline of the left, the second Orbán government initiated an investigation in 2010, and, following the complaint, the Government Audit Office filed a complaint based on its discovery and launched the case, which was investigated by the NAV Crime Directorate; or at least it would have been investigated, since the case was closed in 2013 without evidence. Of course, Kehi cannot be discouraged from his well - understood goals. They filed a complaint, but the complaint didn't hold up, so the Attorney General's Office ended the case in the end, I stress, with a damages of HUF 2 billion. It clearly shows that the offshore thread wasn't really a big deal in this case, although many people said that there was a problem with that too. Everything went well. It is an interesting addition, as usual, to the Fidesz accountability, that when the opposition attacked the issue of Omninvest, the government calling itself national, did not investigate this issue with full commitment in the government, and in 2013 it itself concluded contracts with Omninvest, which, moreover, seems to have failed to fully clean up its portfolio, as far as offshore companies are concerned. The current ruling party, therefore, constantly attacked this state-billion-dollar acquisition in opposition, and then did not want to investigate it in the government. The method of handling the H5N1 vaccine scandal is also a good example of what happened in a drop of the sea by exploring corruption cases led by Kehi but derailed, and it was just a case in the field of health care. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2016-10-11-148	Thank you, Congressman László György Lukács. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speeches after the agenda. Thank you for your work. Parliament will resume its session at 9 a.m. I wish you a restful good night. Meeting day's closed. [[Meeting ended at 6:59 p.m.]]
