u2016-11-29-0	[[The people in this room stand up and greet the voters' community. When the chairman of the meeting takes his seat, the people in the room will sit down.]] Ladies and gentlemen, Please take your seats. The 27th day of the autumn session of the Parliament is hereby opened. I would like to inform you that attila Gelencsér and Dezső Liberty will be here to help me. Welcome to our guests and everyone who is monitoring our work today. Dear Parliament, Will you follow the line on the state of public education? The political debate, which was initiated by Bertalan Tóth and his fellow Members. The motion to initiate the political debate V/12909. was given to them. Dear Parliament, I would like to ask Mr Dezső Liberty to explain the course of the political debate.
u2016-11-29-1	Dear Parliament, Allow me to explain the course of the debate. First, a statement by the representative of the Government shall be made in a 40-minute period. The speakers of each political group will then speak in 15-15 minutes, and the first independent Member will be able to speak. The remaining time frame will then be open to further speeches by its representatives. Finally, the representative of the Government will respond in 20 minutes to what has been said in the debate.
u2016-11-29-2	Dear Parliament, Allow me to remind you of the main rules of the time-frame debate. The speaking time of the member of the Government who spoke during the debate will count towards the time of the pro-government factions. In the meantime, two-minute speeches shall be included in the time frame, with the exception of responding to personal concerns. Point of order speeches are not included in the time frame. On the meeting room information board, interested parties can monitor the use of time frames. Before we begin the debate, I would like to ask once again Mr Dezső Reliable to explain the time frame.
u2016-11-29-3	Dear Parliament, I would like to announce that the Fidesz, MSZP and LMP groups have initiated a two-fold increase in their time frame, so the time frame is divided into 164 minutes for the Fidesz Group, 92 minutes for the MSZP Group, 38 minutes for the KDNP Group, 41 minutes for the Jobbik Group, 48 minutes for the LMP Group and 9 minutes for the independent Members. The time limits provided for the factions include the 15-15 minutes lead speakers.
u2016-11-29-4	Ladies and gentlemen, First, the government's debate will take place in a 40-minute timeframe. I give the floor to Mr László Palkovics, State Secretary of the Ministry of Human Resources.
u2016-11-29-5	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Members, Ladies and Gentlemen, Dear Guests! Thank you for the opportunity that today, nine months after 1 March, when we held a similar debate day, we will have the opportunity to talk about the issues of Hungarian public education. I think that nine months can be symbolic, because that's how long it takes for a baby to be born. Nine months is a very long time, and I think there's a lot of things that can be done that can be measured in the education system for the importance of the previous thing. I can't put my academic record entirely aside here, although there are more of us. Since we have 40 minutes to interpret our activities and to explain this result, I will try to put this into a certain structure. First of all, I would like to briefly talk about the challenges we face when it comes to education systems, and how these challenges differ from, say, 20 years ago, the education system. If we look at it, and there are a lot of analyses and statistics available on what kind of jobs children going to school today or starting school today will be in when they are out of vocational training, public education or university education, then we have to establish that two thirds of them, which are starting school today, are likely to work in jobs that do not exist today. If you look at what these jobs are, there are a lot of researchers involved in this area, because the world has accelerated to such an extent that sometimes we don't even understand its name, address or content. It will be up to the coming period to determine these. What is very important for the education system, however, is that for such an uncertain future or not uncertain future we do not know, we need to establish an education system, an educational structure in which the students who have come out of it will be able to cope. If we have to define what we expect from our education system, then we have a very difficult task ahead of us. If we want to simplify this task, and we do not want to make a mistake, then it probably sounds like something, and otherwise it coincides with the OECD wording, that we need to be able to achieve at school, that our children understand, that they can learn different things, that knowledge they can apply, and that they can do it at any time in their lives, because the learning process does not end with the school being completed and we are out of school. About how the complexity of the world around us, our social systems, our technologies are changing so quickly, I don't think there's any need to talk about it in this circle. There are cases that haven't existed in two years, today they're thematizing our lives; technologies that we knew a few years ago would not be relevant, and then sometime in a hundred years, and these are here today, and these technologies must be managed in some way. If we have to define the main criteria that define an effective education system, then I would like to refer to a study by McKenzie in 2007 and, by the way, which has been regarded as a basic work since then, which says that among many other things, but one of the three most important elements of a good school is primarily a good teacher. I guess I didn't say anything new to anyone, because without good, dedicated teachers, the school system doesn't work well. The second is the methodological preparation of teachers. It is not important to focus on the methodology, as the particular discipline condition, but how we can show this knowledge to our children is a very important issue, it becomes more important as the environment around us changes. The third, and this is what I think is one of the key elements of all education systems, especially the Hungarian, which does not typically focus on this: equality, equal education, as opposed to fair education. Excuse me, it sounds better in English, this equality instead - or versus - equity, so not everyone needs the same level of support at school, but everyone needs support to the same extent that they can achieve the same goal, in view of their abilities, and be able to relate to the things of the world around us in the same way. In fact, the formation of the education system will follow the consideration of these three main aspects. If we have to make a very short assessment of the current situation, I would just like to highlight two things, a lot of things could be said, but I would like to highlight two things. One is actually about knowledge, the knowledge we get at school. I'd like to give you an example, just to try to position my former technical background here for a little bit. At the University of Szeged, they asked IT students a question about what the definition of seconds was. There's a lot of things to say about the second: the indicator of the clocks, the one goes away, an atomic clock, hits by the pendulum. Or it can be said that this is the wavelength of the energy wave emitted at the time of the change in isotope 133 of a cesium atom between two levels of energy. So, there's a lot to tell, but what the student wrote about it, not that. He wrote that a second actually travels a unit of travel at a speed of 3.6 meters per second over a unit of time. [[9.10]] This is not good because it is not good, but it does not make sense, so it simply does not make sense for a student from a good high school who goes to an art school. So this means that we have problems with this - this is one of them. The other question we are facing is where to get this knowledge. If we look at the results of the Education Office's competence measurement, and I think you study this, otherwise a very good measurement, we have a lot of measurements, PISA, TIMSS, PIRLS, but the Education Office has its own measurement system, it's a competence measurement, where we look at the competences of all students from a type of school in mathematics and text understanding. This assessment of competence shows that in fact how the level of this has changed - slightly reduced, slightly increased - is a fact that can be seen from the results. The bigger problem is that there is a strong gap in the results between the metropolitan and metropolitan schools and all the others. This shows that access to knowledge may not be the same, depending on where we go to school. This is the third element, i.e. fairness and equal support. That's what we're dealing with against our system. How do we see this system from within? There have been a lot of opinions on the education system in recent years. I would like to remind everyone of the teachers of the two thousand schools that had been implemented in February, where they can see problems with the school system. There were a lot of opinions, 25 points of the pedagogical union, various opinions of civil society organisations, all of which we put together, given where these problems are actually related, and they came out of them, fully confirming what I said in the introduction that there is no good school without a good teacher, and a significant part of the issues related to teachers' knowledge and good feeling. The second - and once again we confirm what I mentioned - was comments on content issues, mainly on content and methodology issues, and the issue of running schools was third. That's what we've been working on lately. I would not want to talk too much about the details of this, because there has been a lot of talk about it here in Parliament and in various other forums. What came before the round table of public education - and this was the reason for its creation - is practically all this type of question. Here, in practice, the individual cases with most or most of the scores are the number of students, the reduction of the student difference, the number of teachers, the individual management rights of the institutions, the issues related to the pedagogical qualification system, the various allowances, the administrative burden, the issues of the incomes of certain groups of workers, the textbooks, so these were the issues that we have been dealing with over the past period. This was the result, as I mentioned, of the Round Table on Public Education, which basically classified these issues into four topics, mainly on matters related to the course of children's studies, on issues related to the professional strategy of educators, on another set of organisational issues and on different content issues, so this includes the National Basic School and other issues. There have been other issues such as digital competence, different methodological issues, equal opportunities, talent management, lexical curriculum, skills development, competence, unqualified school leaving. So these are the cases that have appeared as input over the past period, but of course there have also been various organizational issues, be it about the public school maintainer, the issues of operation, the management system, the Education Office, the Institute for Research, the teaching training, the problems of the educational promotional system - these were dealt with. Where did we get to, and how does this whole system look on the outside anyway? I would like to mention some statistics based on basic questions. One of these questions was how the population views the situation of higher education and public education. In fact, this is a medium assessment, higher education is a little higher, but the two are not substantially different. The question of whether teachers are overwhelmed is divided. Half the respondents said that yes, they felt that the teachers were overloaded, which actually confirmed the cases I mentioned earlier. We asked what society would support instead of further teacher wage increases. It was clear here that the government's intention to settle the income levels of teachers in 2013 seems to be high in this sense, and now everyone sees the need to switch to other groups. Overburdening students was the only question the answer to which was yes, the students at school were overwhelmed. Of course, from such a question, you can roughly understand the parents' views, of course you need to know exactly what this overload actually means. What is important, and here we were trying to learn about the issue of lexical knowledge, competence and ability development: it is clear here that the development of competence appears as a primary social need, the cultural knowledge material is around 40 percent, and in the remainder the development of competence has been marked. Another interesting question was how they saw the Hungarian education system from the outside. They strongly confirmed in a ratio of about 90 percent that practice, practical knowledge, practical knowledge acquired at school are not typical of the system of Hungarian public education, and this must be strengthened. One consequence of this - the question that secondary vocational training needs to be strengthened - is a clear expectation, 60 percent of those interviewed said that this must be strengthened, since everyone is faced with the economic problems that are essentially attributable to skilled workers and professionals. The work of the current institution maintainer, the Klebelsberg Institution Support Centre, has been judged in a rather complex manner. Here half of the respondents considered this work non-positive, medium-sized, but we asked what this would look like in the next organization, which brought it much closer to the schools, in the 58 district centre; here the opinions looked quite different, and here a significant part of the respondents considered this transformation to be more positive. Very briefly, this is how they see our education system from the outside. Later in the debate, I would like to look at the international location of our education system and its effectiveness. It is also good that today is the political debate day, because the results of the TIMSS measurement will become public today at 10:00, so if we can do this here during the debate, then I will be happy to present the results of this. What has happened over the past period, partly the problems raised and partly the issues on the social side, in what form have we formulated and what has happened? One is the burden of children. Obviously, a definitive solution to reduce the load could result in a change in the environment of the National Basic Training Plan at all. It is not possible to rush here, because how to look like the so-called National Basics Plan, now called NAT 5, will be the result of a lengthy process. Nevertheless, in order to reduce the school burden in some way, we have made a proposal. By amending the regulation, we have created flexible textual recommendations that teachers can use, and they can say that, by the way, taking into account NAT's aspects, but not all areas of knowledge need to be weighted in the same way, they can leave areas, underweight or choose between a range of things. The percentage difference from the current 10% is difficult to estimate. If you have to say a number, 30-40 percent is certain that it is possible to deviate from it. What is important to point out is that for teachers in school, this is an opportunity - and I trust that since September, since this opportunity exists - they have been living in order to focus on the progress of their own class, their own study group, on the deepening of knowledge, and not necessarily on teaching the curriculum across all borders. This had a specific part of the first-second class, when we said that the knowledge to be learned in a given class was 30 minutes of time. Of course, it's hard to put it that way. Obviously, this is what the teachers have already done; whoever has not, this opportunity has now appeared to the one who has done it, and we tell him that it is very fine. [[9.20]] There was a lot of talk about the transformation of the vocational training system last week on the labour market debate day. Here, the master's plans for the high school have been published. Obviously, there were some points in this which appeared very quickly, such as the complex science subjects, although I would not stress the complex so much. This is about building on basic disciplines, mathematics, physics, chemistry, biology, earth swarm, whether it is a subject that is not yet in the system of Hungarian education, which is trying to describe the particular phenomenon in a different way, because we are faced with a phenomenon and not with physics, it is a description tool. Of course, that doesn't mean that you don't have to learn them, you have to learn them the same way. This is an additional opportunity, which appeared here in the first place. Indeed, the appearance of this subject took place quickly enough, but we are confident that with proper support teachers in schools can address this problem. Just last week there was a conference about this, where solutions appeared in addition to all the criticisms. We support and develop these solutions together with the solutions created by the educational development research institute, where everyone can post their own materials and take materials off a surface. These materials are expanding. Here there will be a new thing that has not been in the Hungarian education system. An important element is the transformation of the state institution-building centre. KLIK was criticized for being over-centralized, too big an organization, too far from the school's decision-making place. All organizations can be operated. A better solution from the point of view of schools is that the maintenance organisation itself, which is an independent budgetary body, an independent legal entity, has come much closer to the school. In the new construction, on 30 November, the school district centres will be set up, which will start their actual operation from 1 January. This is really about not having an intermediate level between the principal of the school and the head of the district centre, and they can coordinate and discuss matters directly with each other. This assumes, of course, that the school directors are significantly more positioned, that the school leaders can be. That's what we want, because it's the school principal who has to determine what's going on at school, but then he has to exercise that right. All the studies show that the school is a specific organization, not a company, and not a company, where, on one hand, the autonomy of the school community in professional decisions is crucial, but the role of the school principal in managing the school must be created. Obviously, it takes a lot of things, intent and environment. I think we've created the environment. I would like to highlight the funding of the school system. This year, the government increased the budget of the Klebelsberg Institutional Support Center by HUF 91.5 billion; this meant an increase of approximately 20 percent. If we look at the operation of the schools in the last eight or nine months, we see that the financing cases have ceased, the Klebelsberg Center has no unpaid bill. Its operational bank account, which it has not paid at that moment, will obviously always be, but the February HUF 17 billion outstanding outstanding debt does not compare to the Klebelsberg Center today. This is partly due to the fact that the said source has appeared and partly the operation of the institution maintainer has been in place, and we expect the same operation from 1 January to the new system. Compared to this year's target, the budget of the Klebelsberg Institutional Maintenance Centre has increased by HUF 106 billion. It is very important to mention that budget planning is carried out at school level, at the level of responsibilities, and from this we calculate the annual budget of the entire public institutionkeeper. This process took place, and the NMI budgets were uploaded on 30 November, as I said, at school level. It was done in collaboration with school directors and district head of centers, and this is not a small task. A number of things also happened in the case of education, education and status calculation. The current arrangements for 22-26 hours have been maintained. We believe that this regulation is good enough to control the school. However, there are a number of areas where changes were needed. For example, in certain functions - head of the community, head of the classroom, teacher of the student council - we have provided a reasonable and additional framework for this task to be carried out better. It is also important that the management and control of fixed working time, i.e. 32 hours, are clearly entrusted to the head of the institution. I don't think there's ever been a debate between us about having kids at school. And what kind of solutions, which were not set by law, appeared with half an hour's resolution to follow the working time, was entrusted to the head of the institution. If you look at the Hungarian education system with an international outlook from outside: the student-teacher ratio of Hungarian schools is particularly good. The number of children per teacher is the fifth in the ranking of OECD countries. This could also mean that we can better deal with children in a smaller group, but this is not reflected in the results. There's a reason for that, of course. The reason for this is that the distribution is not even. In a large school in the metropolitan area, this ratio is significantly higher, and this presumption that it cannot be taught well in a large class is absolutely disproved. Last week, the OECD Education Director found the same thing. So, in a larger school in a large city, this rate is worse in this sense, although it produces better results, while in smaller schools in smaller settlements this ratio is pushed down. This shows the kind of inequality that exists between different schools and types of schools. We need to be serious about how we can find a solution to this. Once again, the goal is to give everyone access to good education, and the task is to ensure that this is done. It is still a bit part of the funding that we have solved and proposed a series of cases that came out of negotiations with trade unions and, in part, from the round table of public education. This is the differentiation of allowances, the fact that the relevant source has been determined in such a way that it is truly differential. We have started to address - although we have not yet reached a definitive solution - the question of further employment of pensioners. It is a real need to be able to remain until the end of the specific pedagogical phase by a teacher who wants to remain, not to interfere with the process of education; to be able to continue employment taking into account territorial and disciplined considerations; to continue to apply experts reaching retirement age to graduating and professional examination boards and as a component of the qualification system. Several comments, criticism of the school oversight system. This has already been substantially modified and substantially simplified in the spring. Institutional self-assessment will be mandatory every five years instead of two years. Teachers who have passed a successful qualification are exempted from school supervision for three years. These amendments have all been made. We also started to deal with the system of institutional self-assessment as a task defined by the round table of public education. In this, the educator appears as an element of evaluation, but we will have to move this to the institutions in some way, because we can see the institution from the outside, not just the individual educator. The two are connected, of course. We've started to check this task, and that's gonna mean a lot of things. The remuneration for quality work has been raised several times as a criticism, and the fact that the introduction of such a career is not sufficiently motivating. We actually agree on that. For this reason, we made the proposal and, in the amendment of the Public Education Act, it was stated that, in the case of a wage increase on 1 September 2017, the school director may decide to give it to everyone in accordance with the previous rules, but he may also decide to take into account factors, performance competence, which, unlike the previous method, will result in higher wages for some teachers, and not such a wage increase for some teachers. We entrusted this to the principal of the school, because he is the one who knows best what is happening in his school, and if he wants to be the director of the school, then this is a support he can have, but as I said, he can also decide that the 17th year salary increase part will automatically appear. [[9.30]] What has happened since 2013 - once again looking at teachers' wages from the outside - is that in 2013 the OECD average was around 80 percent, between teachers' wages and other graduates' wages. In Hungary, this was 53 percent. In September 2017, Hungarian teachers receive 82 percent of the Hungarian average salary, above the OECD average. If we look at the OECD report, this is highlighted. I think this shows again how important Hungarian pedagogical society is to the Hungarian community. In 2017, 35 thousand teachers were given the opportunity to apply for certification. This application is almost complete, this number has not been reached, but the number of applications shows an increasing trend. Also for teachers who are seven years ahead of the pension and have not participated in the qualification process, automatically from 1 January the teacher II. they have been graded, and the same is true, otherwise, that the teacher remained temporarily unqualified in II at this stage. We have also made substantial simplifications here. The provision of training, including professionals, is a very important element of the transformations. We are talking about basically pedagogical professionals here. The budgetary coverage of this is available. Here we are faced with the problem that, despite the fact that we have been increasing the number of students who can be admitted to medical education for years, it is still not enough. To speed this up, we will create further pedagogical trainings in Debrecen, Pécs, so that we can increase this number significantly faster. They are very important participants in the Hungarian education system, their activities. For this reason, in 2016, we provided two extra-wage allowances of HUF 35 000 for everyone, and from 1 January the income of workers in the so-called noks area increased by 10 percent. Seven percent of this is automatically, three percent following the principle that the school principal is the head of the school, he sees what is happening there, and three percent is differentiated to these colleagues. Here we have a number of other tasks; basically the deeper embedding of this sponsorship profession into the education system. There are a lot of foreign examples and experiences. We will look at these and propose further improvements to this system. It is a very important element of the processes that have been going on since January, although it is not a new element, the system of teacher training and teacher further education is transformed. well, it's As it appeared here in the introduction, there is no good school without a good teacher. But the world is changing rapidly, so the knowledge we acquired at the university cannot be based on it for the rest of our lives, so the teacher's further education system will be substantially reformed. This has a professional and has an organizational content. As regards its professional content, the working group dealing with this has reached agreement on what is included in the teacher education system. And there's an organizational element to where this training should take place. There are 900 companies in Hungary, who specialize in teacher further education. If we calculate how many people in this country know how to do this, there are probably 900 professionals. Therefore, we thought that universities would be the appropriate area for putting the teacher's further education system on a different basis. Of course, there is a series of other elements. One of the elements is not to put teachers in a position to go to a training course, if they have the money for it themselves, they have a source. That's why we'd like to put an end to this. Teacher further education is not something that is optional and can be if someone thinks so. The teacher needs further education, and he needs it, for whom it is obvious from some measurement what skills he lacks, what skills he lacks, and to ensure that training is provided, but it should not cost the teacher or the school district centre money, so we plan it on universities. This does not mean, of course, that the trainings that are taking place today and which are otherwise valuable would not be able to participate in this after an appropriate accreditation, but we would certainly like to do so in a university environment. We could talk about this for a very long time, and I don't want to talk about it. I would just like to highlight one thing, which is actually a methodological issue. We have started several projects where we want to provide methodological support for teachers, teachers in difficult circumstances, to teach in a class where the composition of children is not homogeneous, but to teach children from different backgrounds together. This program is called Koala, it can be noted about the small animal. There are many elements to this. One of the elements is the complex instruction program, which is already successfully applied to schools operating in particularly disadvantaged environments, but this includes art development programs, logical player development programs, the use of digital options, so that we approach it in a slightly different way. The concept of the National Basic Training Plan is being developed. The concept will be completed by the end of December 2017. We're gonna argue about this for a long time. The aim here is to start education from September 2019 on the basis of the new National Basic Learning Plan, of course in the emerging system. This is where the questions will be considered about what the school structure really looks like, what basic training means, what to do in kindergarten, what to do in school, what to do in transition, what to do between the two types of training. We need to define the national standards that are necessary for the first stage, i.e. after the 4th grade and after the 8th grade. It is very important in some form to create another structure beyond graduation. NAT will address the tools of education, various methodological elements, and what is most important, as I mentioned, is the third element among the characteristics of a good school, fair education, how we can handle issues such as individualised education for children who require special attention: sni, children, children with hhh and talented children. Here we will examine the issue of the 9th grade, whether this is even necessary, where, in what context, what role we intend to give it. You can deal with those cases here. A lot of this has come up, which is the length of school time, so these matters will be dealt with together, and that is what we will focus on in the coming period. Some of the bodies proposed by the Round Table are the Public Education Policy Stakeholders Council. It's an organization, the minister's advisory organization, which actually contains the functions that the round table has captured. This will be displayed in a regulated form. We will discuss this, partly about its content, partly about its participants. And another very important organization I would like to mention is the council of the district center. One of our tasks now is to take over this operation in the municipalities where they have run the schools. In fact, it is about who provides the conditions for the school to function well, who pays for the lighting, heating and other matters of the school. Despite this, the greater involvement of the school with the local community is why we have proposed the establishment of the Council of the Centre for the District of Education. This is where the community can take care of matters that they expect from the school, interfere with the school's affairs, and understand the school's problems, and try to deal with them. These two new bodies will be created. After my time is running out, briefly summarizing the areas I have been talking about and defining the activities of the coming period. [[9.40]] In particular - and this actually means a priority - addressing issues related to teacher training and teacher further education. What is very important is that the different elements of the school system, the public education system and the universities do not separate from each other, an opportunity has been created to strengthen this relationship. The second is the development of content and methodological developments, the development or introduction of the National core curriculum, methodological issues, measurement tools, the third is the change and improvement of the maintenance environment, and the fourth is the structure and infrastructure development programme which will significantly accelerate in the coming period. This will ultimately lead to the development of the three criteria that I said at the beginning. On the details of this, I think I wouldn't want to say any more, I will explain this in the debate. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-11-29-6	Thank you. Dear Parliament, Before we continue our work, the Parliament must decide on a meeting matter. Vice-President István Hiller wishes to speak during today's debate. Members of the Vice-President may only chair the meeting if the Parliament agrees to do so. I therefore ask the Honourable Parliament whether it agrees that Vice-President István Hiller should be able to chair the meeting during the political debate. Please indicate by raising your hands. [[Vote.]] I declare that the visible majority of Parliament has accepted the motion. It is now time for the speeches by its representatives. The first round of these will be the speech of the lead speaker. I give the floor to László Kucsák, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group.
u2016-11-29-7	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, It was said from Mr Secretary of State's exposé that about three quarters of a year ago was the last day of debate on education. The Secretary of State, exhausting the time frame, gave a detailed account of the developments that have taken place in the previous period and in particular in the last nine months. I am very confident that my fellow Members have really followed this up, and in this way there are significantly fewer open questions left for them. I, too, look forward to seeing how the debate is going here in Parliament. I would also like to welcome with respect the representatives of the professional and representative organisations behind the socialists. Speaking of a political debate day, allow me, on behalf of Fidesz, to mention a number of important elements once again so that political and professional policy issues can be dealt with. So I would like to inform the honourable people and the public again that the first child for the government and the governing parties is the child. The goal of the government and government parties is to give Hungarian students competitive knowledge, and educators are honoured for their daily work. This is why we consider it an important achievement that teachers' wages have increased significantly with the introduction of the new career model. More than half a thousand schools have been renewed in recent years, and we are launching further school development worth HUF 210 billion. We also try to reduce the burden on parents by all means. Since the change of regime, as many children have never been involved in free children's meals and free textbooks as they are now. However, the tasks involved in the transformation of public education have not yet been completed. If you will allow me, I would like to remind you that in 2010 - which the Socialists who took the initiative often object to - significant changes also had to be made in the field of public education and public education. Let us remember that in 2010, the Fidesz-KDNP government took over the country's leadership in a situation where this country was indebted at all levels. It has been taxed at the individual level - we remember the foreign exchange credit problem and its necessary treatment -, it has been indebted at the level of small and larger communities, and here I am also reminding specifically the debt of local governments and that this debt, which was an item of nearly HUF 1300 billion, has been taken over by the government, giving the local governments a breath. It is extremely important that the country has also been indebted to the state, with an incredible increase in public debt. These are important factors because, after 2010, in such an economic situation, in these circumstances, there was a need to carry on and build on policy in each area. What other reasons led to the need for change? We have mentioned it, but let us repeat that it is important that the school system was extremely fragmented. I have already mentioned that a large proportion of the local government's maintainers have been struggling with very high debt. It has also been mentioned that there have been very large differences in geographical and economic conditions within the country, and we must not ignore the fact that very significant failures of previous education governments and trends have also appeared. Since the socialists are not strong in memory policy or political memory, we will highlight some of these specific issues, myself and my fellow Members. That is why I am going to address a number of areas of particular importance in my speech, and then my fellow Members will turn to the field of professional policy in the ordinary speeches. That's what I'm gonna do myself. Maybe the first thing to do is raise wages. In 2013, the government launched the largest wage increase programme for teachers after the regime change, which lasts until September 2017, with an average increase of 50 percent in teachers' salaries over five years. Then let's remember the old ones. Here I would like to point out to the present members of the Socialist Group of the Honourable Initiative that in 2002 you, in line with Péter Medgyessy's promise and commitment, launched the so-called 50 percent wage increase in the public sector, but the career programme and this differentiated remuneration based on performance and quality were at the same time removed from the agenda. The budget was provided only until the end of 2002. As a consequence of this, the school closure wave started partly and with emphasis on this reason, and of course we know that the number of children has also decreased, so there was an understandable, explainable reason. But it is extremely important that these economic constraints, which have lasted for years from 2002 onwards, have led, for example, to the fact that, in the order of magnitude, HUF 100 billion was missing immediately in 2003 to pay teachers' wages. Then, in 2004, according to the news at that time, HUF 150-200 billion was missing for the safe operation of the local government's maintainers. So that's the difference. We provided these conditions, and you provided them for a total of three months, and then you entrusted them to the municipalities. The state spent HUF 32.5 billion on teachers' wages in 2013 compared to 2012, HUF 120.9 billion in 2014 compared to 2013, HUF 38.5 billion more on teacher's wages in 2015 compared to 2014 and HUF 34 billion more in 2016 from the central budget than in 2015. The increase will not stop in 2017, and wages will increase by approximately 50 percent in total. Not only educators, but also non-educator-educated workers, as the Secretary of State has pointed out, are starting to pay. Two times this year, they received an extra HUF 35-35 thousand, the state-owned employees, and next year they will receive a 7 percent general wage increase based on a 3-percent employer's decision. This measure was taken not on the basis of legislation, but on the basis of the round table of public education and the professional proposals of the National Pedagogist Faculty, as a tangible result of government negotiations. Here, too, I would like to refer to what I said nine months ago, that I would encourage all professional and other organisations to participate in this joint work. Graduated nursery educators are now part of the pedagogical career program. In January of this year, their wages rose by 40-60 thousand HUF in one step, and they are now rising at the same rate as teachers. [[9.50]] About the issue of the free textbook: two thirds of students, all undergraduate children and seniors in social need, i.e. more than 733 thousand - 733 thousand! - they got the textbook package free of charge from September, this year's school year. Here too, I would remind you that at the time - and again I turn to the socialists, because they initiated today's debate - Péter Medgyessy also promised to provide a free textbook. Let's take a look at the records from your time. After the start of the term, Fidesz initiates the amendment of the Public Education Act in order to ensure that primary and secondary school textbooks are free of charge. The proposal reflects Péter Medgyessy's promise in the election campaign, according to which he takes personal responsibility for making primary school textbooks free in addition to travelling between school and the place of residence and catering - word, word, word, remember. Continued: In the 2016-2017 academic year, the 1-4th grade received the textbooks free of charge, as well as those receiving ethnic and pedagogical education, and continue to receive the normative discount free of charge. In 2013, the textbook supply cost HUF 15 billion, of which 7.3 billion were charged to families and 7.7 billion to public finances. By 2016, the cost of textbook supply was reduced to 12.4 billion, of which only HUF 5.1 billion is charged to families' wallets and 7.3 billion is financed by the state. By reducing the cost of textbook supply, the biggest winners of actions in recent years are families, with more than HUF 2 billion remaining compared to 2013, based on KELLO data. The government's textbook supply policy has broken the trend of two decades of price increases in textbook prices, and the price of textbooks has been decreasing since 2014. Free meals. Children, I think, may agree, have a chance to break out of poverty only if parents work, live from work instead of aid, and the burden on families is reduced. For us, the child comes first, so we use all means to help families who have children to live. Hungary is today a unique European country where 90 percent of young children are fed three times a day from kindergarten by state resources. While up to 2015 92,000 children in kindergarten and kindergarten received free care, from 1 September 2015 to 270 thousand. We doubled the amount for children's meals in 2010-2015, we increased it from HUF 29 billion to HUF 61.08 billion, and further to HUF 71.7 billion this year. At the same time as the introduction of compulsory pre-schooling from the age of three, the government has substantially extended the range of free dining children from 1 September 2015. Children of parents with one or two children in kindergarten or in kindergarten where the per capita income in the family does not exceed 130 per cent of the net minimum wage required for a free meal have been entitled to a free meal. From September 2015, 90 percent of daycare and preschoolers eat free; from 92 thousand to 318 thousand children eating free of charge, including healthy siblings of chronically ill and disabled children. It is important that no family has to insist on poverty in order to receive support. The Hungarian government is committed to supporting the most needy children. We take care not only of children during school hours but also during school holidays, we spent 25 percent more money on the summer social meals in 2015. Instead of last year's HUF 3 billion, 5.3 billion will be spent this year to feed disadvantaged and cumulative disadvantaged children during spring, summer, autumn and winter school holidays for a total of 70 holiday days. Next year, this amount will continue to increase to HUF 6.7 billion. Developments: this year by HUF 91.5 billion, and next year by HUF 130 billion more than the original target, the Hungarian state spends an additional HUF 130 billion on developing the infrastructure of public education and education institutions. I will try to address this in my ordinary speech, so that I can give you concrete experiences. The funding of higher education in the budget of 2017 is expected to be about HUF 240 billion compared to HUF 197 billion this year. In order to carry out the tasks of public education, there will be about HUF 100 billion more planned next year. More than HUF 5 billion will be spent by the government on the continuation of the school programme, which provides additional post-school work for disadvantaged children with more than 250 schools with the help of qualified professionals. More than ever, 90,000 children were allowed to spend their holidays in the Erzsébet camps, with HUF 4.4 billion in budget support, and next year the government spends nearly 20 percent more resources, some HUF 5.2 billion in central support for children's camping and other programs. Ladies and Gentlemen, Ladies and gentlemen, As I was saying, the secretary of state expo has been very detailed about a lot of areas. I have tried to highlight some of the elements that were mentioned here nine months ago, in Parliament's horseshoe, and many times since then, for all those who have observed and participated in these parliamentary and committee debates. I hope that this new initiative was born, for the second time in a year, not from the motivation of political hacking, but from the point of view of cooperation and honest assessment of the situation. That's gonna come out in a few hours. I hope to thank you all for your attention and wish you all a successful job. [[Applause in the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2016-11-29-8	I now give the floor to István Hiller, the lead speaker of the MSZP Group.
u2016-11-29-9	Mr President, Congresswoman Wives and Congressman Lords! Dear Parliament, First of all, on behalf of the MSZP faction, I would like to thank the opposition factions with which today's debate on education was possible. At the same time, I welcome the representatives and leaders of the trade union interest and professional organisations in our box. I'm really glad you're here. Parliament's debate day as a genre, let's be honest, is slowly slipping into the genre and phase of total indifference. This is not only a downgrading of the issue of education, but also of the parliamentary debates in general, and I therefore clearly hold you responsible, honourable majority of governors. This is an important tool for debauchery and debauchery of politics. It is possible to comment on this, to introduce it, and to give opinions that are this parliamentary, otherwise important and truly significant genre, which would give us the opportunity to discuss substantive and longer-term issues beyond daily political battles, and you are making it virtually impossible for the word, not in its legal but political sense. For example, I hear this morning, not from your government, but from your party, the spokesperson of Fidesz, and I would like to quote: "Today, the education is at rest. Teachers appreciated me. Children are gaining more and more competitive knowledge, so it is questionable whether there is a basis for Tuesday's educational debate. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. [[Dr. László Varga: In which country?]] We should slowly stand up and greet this announcement with a beat-up applause, which was a premiere of today. However, if the majority of the governors appeared in such a fine number, while a few minutes ago there were still a little fewer than the opposition, this shows the future well. [[Demercation in the benches of opposition parties. L. Simon László: You wish!]] I would, however, like to talk about serious issues and directions, asking you to take a meaningful part in this debate that we have initiated. In the coming hours, we will try to discuss the issue of education in Hungary, and to create a conflict of views so that this will bring the issue of education forward. Therefore, I would like to talk about these directions, trends and trends, and I would like to talk about the profile that I believe you represent in education. I would like to talk about the financing situation that we have just heard nice but false words about, the issue of employment in education, within public education, and then the proposals that the MSZP represents and which I ask you to reconsider - after 2018, I hope not. [[10.00]] First of all, for years, within the last half a decade, you have denied that the full nationalization of institutions with previous municipal reservations will take place. In this House, here in full publicity, in response to numerous debates, TVs, radios, and interpellations, it was categorically stated that it was not true that nationalisation would take place in accordance with the shameful law of 2011 named after public education, but rather simply a step that would bring together the educational structure called dispersal. Compared to this, they will act on the last step of nationalization from 1 January 2017: they will rip the educational institutions away from the maintenance municipality, from local communities, and they will also break the last link, complete and total nationalisation, and not only in infrastructure, as the building renovated by the municipalities is now being lost in many cases, but from the textbook market to all parts of education and education, they will perform only one demonstration of a power interest throughout Hungarian public education. Compared to this, what the Minister of the Prime Minister's Office has done recently seemed interesting and to be considered as the most valuable part of education, the most valuable part of public education, was church schools. I suggest that, although many have expressed their surprise, others are shocked to discuss this issue in more detail. I wasn't surprised at all, but I think it makes perfect sense to make the statement made by the Minister, knowing the way they are, by the way. I say to you, as you have denied that you are nationalising the fullness of Hungarian public education, I believe that you are nationalising the completeness of the local government, now all you are prepared to do is give a significant part of nationalised education to the Church, so that the preparation of what you have previously denied is done with a political statement. The fact is that a significant debate on this issue was held in the Hungarian Parliament roughly 120 years ago, resulting in the separation of the state and church, one of the foundations of the civil state. I believe that this statement does not simply apply to education. You are considering changing the foundations of 120 years ago, wanting to re-regulate the relationship between the state and the church, even if some of your Members do not know about this, but did not know about nationalisation at first, and yet they did. Not that the experience of history says anything, but let us relive the debate of 120 years ago, the so-called reform of church politics, which led by Count Albin Csáky, a Catholic man of faith for his family and for his entire political career, the Prime Minister and Sándor Wekerle, and although not only in a package dealing with education, but in a five-law package, the relationship between the state and the church was clearly regulated. Please listen to some thoughts about how our predecessors felt about this. I quote:. Although the chief order voted off the bill at first, the king refused to appoint the main orders in order to accept it, but when Wekerle returned from Vienna to Budapest, the university youth took his horses and towed his car in triumph. Ferenc Herczeg writes in his memoirs that Budapest would have been willing to die to help win what was then called progress and enlightenment. People said that there had been enough of the Middle Ages, and that no one had seen such enthusiasm before or since. - 1896. Then, after 120 years, you will bring this issue back on the agenda, and I would like to say that it is not within the framework of the debate on education, but I, we are ready for this debate. If you wish to break the separation of the state and church, to change one of the fundamental pillars of the civil state, then you should initiate a substantive and real debate from this. In any case, I ask not only for the support and alliance of parties, not only of the kind of thinkers, but also of the thinkers present in the churches, who deeply believe that the state and church are divided into good and effective, and not to bring back to the dark ages what you are about to do here. The question of financing. Since we have an unfinished debate with the Minister, because you have managed to accept at the meeting of the Cultural Committee the excellent proposal that the Minister's annual report will be able to speak once and for a total of three minutes, you have failed to comply, and I would like to say the following on the basis of Eurostat data. In 2014, there was no doubt an increase in the amount spent on education, with a GDP ratio of 4.9 percent. However, this is nothing more than an increase compared to your heavily cut budget, because it was indeed sunk back to 4.6 percent in 2013. In comparison, 4.9 percent is undoubtedly an increase, but it does not reach 5.5 percent in 2010 and does not reach 5.9 percent in 2006. So please, since I am not talking about different data, but about a European funding statistics published by Eurostat, I respectfully ask that, in addition to the winning reports, sometimes the numbers be dealt with. I would like to talk about the issues of employment and reconciliation, because, unlike this morning's interview, everything is not fine in terms of education. I would like to ask you, with all due respect, to respond to what you think of public employment in Hungarian education and public education. It seems to me that public workers are not simply intended to serve and use them for the purpose of providing work to people in unemployment, but, on the contrary, to change the relationship between people with work and to re-employ them as public workers in a number of educational and educational institutions. Today, this is becoming typical for educational institutions and especially nursery schools, for auxiliary staff and support staff, but for schools, many non-educatorial workers fear that they will cease or change their current status and will be recruited as public workers after the end of nationalisation. [[10.10]] I would like to ask you clearly, respectfully, face-to-face, whether you have such intentions, whether you want to turn public workers from educational workers currently working in other employments, not teachers. [[Zoltán Grimlock: If not, why do they do it?]] The settlement of interests, which was mentioned earlier, I cannot call it a meaningful reconciliation of interests. First of all, the legislative formations of reconciliation of interests were destroyed in 2010-11, completely unnecessarily removed from the Public Education Policy Council, the powers of the National Council for Public Education were cut, the higher education round table was abolished, and three and a half to four years later - seeing the power of last year's pedagogical and non-educator movements - they have been trying to recover this from 2014 one way or another. I'll report to you that we haven't been able to make it yet. With all due respect, I would like to ask you what is the purpose of a certain 150 centres, which are now to be appointed, where teachers, schools and local parents and other working groups believe that the lower classes are to be left on the spot, leaving the upper classes together. I do not wish to debate this at this time, just to be clear, I would like to ask you if you have such an intention of concentrating the upper school in 150 district centres. I would also like to ask - preferably by name, because it is obviously the work of scientists and competent people - who write NAT, who are the people, working groups, who are preparing this important document for the country. If we get answers to these questions, we will be able to give a better picture of the education policy that we think is bad at the moment. Thank you very much.
u2016-11-29-10	Thank you. I now give the floor to Rózsa Hoffmann, the lead speaker of the KDNP Group.
u2016-11-29-11	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Dear Guests, Just five years ago, in November 2011, the Parliament began to negotiate the law that became a public education law, which was adopted by the Parliament at dawn on 19 December 2011. After the adoption of the law, we created more than 120 laws at a very fast pace until the summer of 2014, and since then additional legislation has served the purpose of the Public Education Act in its introduction that the law and the framework must be completed by other legislation, since the details are clearly not regulated by law in modern law states. [[Attila Gelencsér takes his place in the notary seat.]] In fact, by adopting the law, the work with which we have laid clear foundations for a new public education system has been completed, and this public education system is classified by its goals and the way it is carried out. These objectives have not been debated in the debate, and the current debate is not about the objectives, as I see it, but rather about either right or wrong steps in implementation. Therefore, I cannot in any way understand why many of you acted in the spring of this year with the password to withdraw the law, to turn back to the old situation, which has not been said here today, but it was clearly in the words of the Member István Hiller before me who called this law a disgrace and the whole education policy a waste. Moreover, he also brought here Ference Herczeg, a representative of more than a hundred years ago, a writer who actually described these lines in his work The Gothic House, but also described how the opposition destroyed the intention of Hungary to continue its construction in 14 years. Therefore, there are many things that can be taken away, of course, but let us turn away from the past, and I would rather talk briefly about the present and the future. It goes without saying why this public education law is correct, if, I add, I have never concealed it, I have never denied it - the methods and pedagogical procedures of the road to it may be disputed, and we have a democratic society, we have many professional institutions and partly political institutions to discuss them. I would add that most of these debates would, in my view, be more of a university sphere, a conference, because there are a lot of them that are not a political issue, of course anything can be brought into Parliament. So, why can't we consider this public education law to be wrong? Before 2010, despite the best interests of the children in the law at that time, the government of the time led to a state of public education, which was described in quite detail by Mr László Kucsák, a Fidesz MEP before me. However, I repeat some of the features of this former public education system: it was fragmented; it was uneven in all respects; it resulted in huge differences between settlements and school schools; the chances of access to education were also very different; the odds of corruption; the schools became a daily practice of non-standardism, indiscipline, what is more, an educational policy environment around schools in which the law was often given to the law-breakers; the respect of educators was at a low level; the lack of equal treatment was shown between public, municipal, private and church schools, which was impossible in a democratic society; school closures, graduation scandals and so on. Therefore, let us look at how the Public Education Act defined the objectives of the education system, which - I will say it again - is never disputed, political or professional. Here I quote from the keynote speech that was given five years ago:, The purpose of the law is to create a system of public education that promotes the harmonious physical, mental and intellectual development, skills, skills, skills, emotional and willful qualities of the children in charge of him, through the conscious development of their age-specific characteristics, and thus moral, independent living, raising the private interests of people and responsible citizens who are able to reconcile them with the public interests. Its main objective is to prevent social disintegration and to provide talent with educational tools. The Public Education Act therefore sets human education as a fundamental goal of the school system, education in the full sense of the word, and, in particular, it puts it in the service of the development of the whole personality and of the community, the family, the nation, the church and humanity. The text can be found in the parliamentary documentation. I would like to talk about how these goals started to be achieved in the past, what we have done to achieve these goals. Firstly, what we have done for children and for the effectiveness of education. One of the most important innovations, which we can clearly appreciate, was the introduction of compulsory kindergartens from the age of three. I note that in our educational history there is a lot of value, among other things, in 1891 Albin Csáky proposed our first kindergarten law, which recommended it from the age of three, and made the kindergarten compulsory in some cases. Why is this so important? Because it can remedy or help to remedy early school dropouts, and it can help to ensure that a person who is raised in a community up to 3-6 years of age will have much less problems with school entry. [[10.20]] I note that this legislation only came into force from 2015, so we cannot assess its results yet. Four to five years from now, we will see it, and we can hope that the number of children who went to kindergarten from the age of three will decrease significantly and learn what is the order, what is to adapt, to cooperate with other children, to perform certain tasks. We also know that in 2015-16 the number of children of three years of age has already increased by 3.7 percent, and we have been able to show a certain increase in all ages. The state helped with all kinds of tools, kindergarten seats, and so on. I will not repeat it because it has been said, although I would like to do so by means of financial means for the development of children, how the government, textbooks, catering and so on contributed. I can only repeat what has already been said. But still, by staying in education, we have introduced optional teaching of faith and ethics. This was a huge need in a world where children's concepts and the concepts of society have been more than relaxed in moral matters; it is happening without problems. We made sure the school was open all day for the kids. It's a good goal, no one's challenged it. The road to it had to be polished and polished, because a lot of people misunderstood, schools, politicians and so on. The point is that the kids should be taken care of by teachers, educators, professionals by 4:00 p.m., if they need to, by 5:00 p.m., because it's better for them to be on the street by themselves. We've introduced everyday physical education. No one has contested the goals, and there are very good results, you can already see in the results of the first tests, although this can be assessed only in the long term. I know we've never denied this either, because it's a fact that the infrastructure isn't right yet, but there are enormous efforts to build a gym and swimming pool to find the infrastructure, and until then, the ingenuity of teachers in many places is very good at solving problems. We have raised the number of hours of artistic education alone in the new National Basic School, which again helps children to develop spiritually, aesthetic and emotional, and the art class has increased by an hour in the lower school. Indeed, the purpose of this is once again undisputed. Another measure that is brand-new in the law is the community work of high schools, the results of which I have been interested directly in the last few days. The trend remains that its results are positive, that it is a mentality-enhancing activity for children, whose initial cumbersome administrative burdens are reduced, and that teachers have found their way. So this path must be continued, and more will be said about the importance of education. I could quote a lot again, I have some written quotes, but my time is running out, so I'd like to talk about the other very important area within the framework of the lecture, and this is the appreciation of educators and teachers. We consider the education, the school as a public service, the whole school thing. It's in the introduction to the law, in his explanation. That hasn't changed since then. Public service, i.e. through education, school, exercises the activities of education for the benefit of society, community and individual. This results in a lot of changes. The most important thing is that teachers everywhere throughout the country are in a position to feel their appreciation not only in words, but also in words. This was served and served by the teacher's career model, which had more to say about his pay implications. I don't want to repeat them either, but it's never been this significant. In public education, the pedagogical careers introduce steps similar to the analogy of higher education. I don't really hear them talking about it, even though that's the point of having teachers ambition it - and that's why they get paid to show a surplus. Therefore, the teacher from I. to the teacher II., from there to the master teacher and then to the research teacher degree, should be a glory, as they do. But we knew that it was difficult to make such a change, we knew that there would be a lot of problems; accompanied, perhaps a little more than necessary. I would like to say that there are now a significant number of master teachers and research teachers. The course is free, but not mandatory. Because anyone who really has a great deal of difficulty entering the master's degree and volunteering for it doesn't have to do that. This was also the goal of forcing those who were about to retire not to apply for a higher grade, but that they were free to make their decisions in the seven years. As a result of the activities of experts and well-intentioned experts, the system may have become a little over-bureaucratized, but to discuss in 2014-15-16 whether it is necessary for an intellectual person to move to a higher level and pay higher, to upload the modern technique, using the computer, to upload certain documents that are about nothing but the description of his work, I think it is unnecessary. There are more and more people who can see that, who have gone through with the tender, and they say that it was good for them to be able to face their own work. By the way, the public education round table is a good place to eliminate these technical difficulties, and we hope to arrive at the state that... - and here I cannot resist not quoting László Németh, forgive me. The law states in its chapter on the teacher's career model - this is not yet László Németh, but the law - the role of educator based on vocation, in a way that understands pedagogical work and life's questions, who can make creative, independent decisions and take responsibility for this. It makes life a more predictable and higher requirement, with much higher wages. That's the purpose of the law and the career model. I turn to László Németh, who says, "In the kindergarten group room, in the school classrooms, everywhere the teacher is more important than the curriculum. The school is not considered a gymnasium of life, but a plannedly compressed copy of the entire life, where the student receives everything that is chaotically surrounded by each degree of life and arranged. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. It is our job to create this arrangement so that the child, the young, can develop in his condition. In order for teachers all to be worthy of this task, a career model is needed everywhere. No one questioned that either. Thank you for your attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2016-11-29-12	I now give the floor to Dóra Dúró, the lead speaker of the Jobbik Group.
u2016-11-29-13	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, In addition to reviewing specific professional issues, it is perhaps worth starting with the position of education in Hungarian political public life, the Hungarian government structure, and the importance of education in government and education management. Education has not had an independent ministry since 2010. While there is, for example, a Prime Minister's Office and a Propagandaministére, neither education nor health have been so appreciated by the government as to govern it from an independent ministry. That's one of the very important signals. Another very important sign is that in 2013 we managed to obtain 29 out of the OECD countries in the cost of education in the 29 Member States. There has never been a government in Hungary where we spend the least of the OECD countries on education. In 2013, Hungary experienced the shame that this government least considered the area of education to be an important area of education in the 29 countries. [[10.30]] If you look at how the profession was dealt with and the discussions started, it is a very important question and a very important fact that you started talking to the profession when the situation was untenable, because it was not that in 2011 these discussions were carried out before the new Public Education Act, and then the system, maintenance, textbook market, everyday physical education, faith and ethics, a full-day school, but, going after themselves, hearing or seeing as Dömötör [[Defiance.]] They went through the whole thing as blinders... [[To Csaba Dömötör:]] Excuse me, Mr. Secretary. They've been through the whole makeover. Then, after seeing that the result of your activities was that the profession protested on the street, they created institutionalized forms of reconciliation of interests. This is very important, and it shows very much the attitude of the government to education policy, to the participants in the profession. István Hiller referred to the manifestation of János Lázár that church schools are the most important actors in education. This is a very serious criticism in my interpretation of the policy of education over the last six years, because if the state had been successful, public education policy would have been successful over the last six years, then public schools would be the most important actors and children would have received the educational and knowledge skills that none of the ministers in the government would have received. So it alone shows the failure of education policy, this one statement of one of their ministers. Turning to specific professional issues, the KLIK and the issue of maintenance, which is perhaps one of the most important issues. They were basically trying to justify nationalisation for financing reasons, and they said that since the municipalities are very fragmented and the economic capacity of the municipalities is very different, there is a need for a single funding in relation to state reservation. However, on the one hand, this money was not included in the scheme and, on the other hand, differences cannot be reduced or treated solely by monetary benefits. A study that pointed out that KLIK could not reduce differences in this form was carried out in the context of the Institute for Education and Development. Public reservation in this form and in itself will not reduce these enormous differences. Mr Secretary of State here in his expo, he talks with the greatest naturalism about the need to give school directors employers' rights and the opportunity to differentiate the work of teachers at school. Only when the opposition argued the same thing five years ago when the Public Education Act was passed, it was swept off and it was said that this system was not working well. Then they didn't bring this regulation. Then again, after seeing that this situation is untenable, now they are correcting this measure, the damage they have done to themselves must now be corrected in recent years or a year or two. In the case of KLIK, this has happened in some respects, but in other respects the system has been further nationalised, because so far, at least by providing tangible assets, municipalities have had the opportunity to gain insight into and intervene in the lives of their own schools. Now there won't be a chance for that. So by nationalising the reservation with KLIK, and now nationalising the operation, the municipalities are completely excluded from the lives of their own schools. [[Dr. István Hiller: That's right!]] So if you think, Mr. Secretary, that it is the school principal himself who has the best insight into the life of the school and can therefore make a decision on personal matters, then on the basis of the same logic, it would be the municipality that has much more insight into the life of the school than the head of the school district, who, by the way, would have to look at dozens of schools in many settlements. The next crucial issue that we need to address is the transformation of the textbook market. Here we see a lot of different, colorful examples of such faith disputes in the press, what is wrong with each textbook, what is not wrong. But if we try to review the textbook market on a systemic basis, I think, let's say, if we use the data of the Hungarian Competition Authority and the Education Office, we will get closer to the solution. Prior to the conversion, more than two thirds of the textbook market was dominated by four major publishers, and 90 percent of the market was covered by the ten largest publishers. In the case of individual textbooks, if some textbooks are taken into account, the concentration was even higher. You justified the transformation of the textbook market by saying that there are too many textbooks on the market, that they are overgrown, that there is no need for teachers to choose from so many publications and that market values dominate this market. If we look at the transformation of the textbook market from 1990 to 2012, we see that the number of publishers for publishers dropped from 142 to 52 at the time mentioned above and that the number of publications for the textbook register was 3712 in 2011. You thought this was a lot, so you've been radically involved in this system. After the system was redesigned, KELLO's Executive Director said that 3400 textbooks can be selected. So this huge transformation resulted in only a 10 percent decrease in the number and proportion of publications on the textbook list. If you considered the 3700 to be so much that you had to intervene so radically before Christmas, crossing the law in one day at the National Assembly, then why have you achieved a 10 percent decrease? There's a contradiction between the two. If their concept is that 3700 is a lot, so there's a very radical need to intervene, then why isn't 3400 much? In addition, in the old system, textbook teachers received between HUF 720-840 per child - also based on the information of the Education Office - and this was reduced to HUF 300 in the new system, and in the first year it was HUF 100. So the transformation of the textbook market, if you look at the number of textbooks, did not bring any real change, resulted in only 10 percent change. I would ask the Secretary of State whether, in this regard, you believe that the Hungarian education system has lost value by transforming the textbook market. As far as I'm concerned, yes. Many valuable textbooks have been lost by the Hungarian education system by changing the system in this way. I am convinced that this impairment could have been avoided. It could have been avoided that we could have saved these precious textbooks, which the teachers still cry back to this day, and the public education was crying back. You didn't do it, you didn't pay attention to it, you changed the whole market like a fidelity. Perhaps I have come to the most important question in my speech, the question of creating a chance, the concept of children who live in disadvantaged situations and who are born into such families. Their proportion in the five counties of Hungary is more than 40 percent of the children who attend school. We are talking, therefore, of a huge crowd, who should be able to provide a meaningful solution very quickly. Your concept is very clear: the age limit for compulsory education was set at 16 years, and the age for entering public work was set at 16 years. It's a clear concept. At 16, someone can leave school and start working community service. But, Mr. Secretary, it's a dead end. It's not gonna take these kids out of the misery they live in. If that is what you want, this is a perfectly clear concept, but it is not good for them or for Hungary. It's not a chance, it's a chance to take. But we can ask why the education system leads to a mass of children who want to leave school when they are 16. We talk so often here and at committee meetings about the fact that learning is the only chance, the longer a person stays in the school system, the more chance he has of getting a decent wage in life. [[10.40]] Why don't they know why the education system doesn't give them this knowledge, why doesn't it bring them to the motivational level that at the age of 16, ideally, every Hungarian child thinks that I have to study, I want to learn, I want to get ahead, I want to stay in the education system, I don't want to be a public worker? What happens to these kids when they're six, eight, 10, 12? Why not focus on motivating them to learn, showing them a vision based on learning and work, after which they will get a decent wage? And one of our solutions to this is the system of boarding schools. Because not only children should be motivated, but children whose parents do not show them this example and never encounter the way of life, the perception that a person lives from work based on learning, it is good for those children to have this example shown to them. I know it's a very sensitive question. This issue needs to be addressed very carefully, but I am convinced, also on the basis of international examples and on the basis of the example of boarding schools currently operating voluntarily in Hungary, that this can be effective and can help children who are struggling with this problem. And every time I ask that question, I bump into walls because I've never received a meaningful answer to that question. They do not tell us what the problem is professionally, they do not tell us what problems there may be with funding, there is no professional debate on this issue in Hungary. The proportion of children with multiple disadvantages and disadvantages is constantly increasing, and the problem is increasing. One of the most important tasks of the education system as a system of chance creation is to raise happy people. I would like to finish my speech with a quote from Klebelsberg Kunó: I want to have a learner and diligent but also a playful Hungarian child. Because only a playful, lively Hungarian child can be a cheerful, hardworking Hungarian man, who takes on his business and the great responsibilities of life with his head raised, smiling and not with despair. Thank you for your attention. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2016-11-29-14	I now give the floor to István Ikotity, the lead speaker of the LMP Group.
u2016-11-29-15	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, Dear leaders, representatives of professional and representative organisations! We're on a public education debate day. At this time, I think our first priority is to get out of the water a little bit, get out of the usual environment in which we spend our weekdays here in Parliament. Let's take a deep breath and look back at the distance we've taken so far, since everyday life often doesn't allow that. I have missed this approach from all the keynote speakers that have been spoken so far, as it is obviously the keynote speakers that look at it from the farthest point of view that state the position of the party in this regard. I think that when we are talking about public education and we are on a debate day, which is relatively rare, especially compared to everyday meetings, we need to look at a longer time frame. For example, we need to look at what has happened since 1990, what has happened in the last 26 years, how the fate of Hungarian education has evolved, what we have achieved, how successful this story has been. And if we look at this, whether in education, in the state of society or in the economic situation, and look for benchmarks, then unfortunately we find that we cannot talk about a success story or even a good direction, because we are looking at any point of reference, whether we are looking at countries in Central and Eastern Europe, Visegrad countries or neighbouring countries, or Austria, and we can say that not only have we come closer to Austria in the last 26 years, but the difference has unfortunately increased. Looking back, this story is definitely something that needs to be changed, and in order to change that, we need to look for the mistakes that we can then analyze and move on. I would like to draw attention to some of these at the beginning of the speaker's speech. Over the past 26 years, for example, we have not come to an agreement on its goals. If there was one word to sum up the government education policy activity that was done before 2010, then I could say that the key word for this is something like adaptation. After 2010, we moved back to an earlier period, before 90, in which public education was aimed at access, rather than access to knowledge, in the speech of Rózsa Hoffmann's lead speaker. This is a very significant change, because, obviously, I do not want this to be a step backwards, but compared to what has happened in the time frame, it is a step backwards, and it is a particularly good illustration of the attitude of political parties to their core values, that a right-wing party highlights generalisation, while left-wing parties highlight adaptation. It is also interesting to look at the state of society and see what has changed in the last 26 years. We can see that society has become familiar with phrases, people have become familiar with expressions, a much more tangible part of their everyday life of uncertainty, lack of prospects, and indeed society, no matter what indicators we look at, unfortunately continues to divide, the difference between rich and poor, informed and uninformed or less informed. Speaking also of the state of the economy after society, it has been said on a regular basis that the Hungarian economy is indeed, even on the basis of various indicators in terms of its competitiveness, at the end of the line, there are only a few states behind us, between the European Union countries and even the OECD countries. What are you talking about in the keynote speeches? On the part of the governing parties, the mistakes of the socialist government, which had already been completed almost six years ago, are still marked by the mistakes of the previous government. I think six years is a time frame, a cycle and a half, when maybe we should move past that. The two most important key words on the part of Fidesz in the speech are basically the free meal and the free book, and this is also the access that Rózsa Hoffmann has said to confirm. At the same time, there is also a career; it is a question of what a successful career we are talking about when we have increased 10 percent each year, and then in 2015 wage increases have been separated from the minimum wage and now we are talking about a 15 percent increase in the minimum wage. Obviously, we know that if this hadn't been chosen, there would have been a greater increase in the wages of teachers than the wage increases that you consider so high. What do we think should be said much more? Where's your government's focus? Where does education policy and education play a role in the Fidesz-KDNP government? Some examples of this are how you - and this practice, obviously - treat this area as a stepchild, such as the lack of a Ministry of Education, such as the absence of an educational committee, the fact that it is only a second in its name, a Committee on Culture and Education, have been linked to another area. In the past period before 2010, there has been no transfer of education to the opposition, even before 2014. It was always considered one of the most precious areas. [[10.50]] It is now apparent from 2014 that the Education Committee has been chaired by the opposition. It shows something that you don't have the kind of heart that you want to control under your closest supervision. Let us see how you are represented on this day of debate. I would have been delighted if the Minister had paid his respects on the educational debate day, even if he had spoken. I would have been delighted if the former Secretary of State, Judit Czunyiné Bertalan, appeared on this debate day. It is also a very good indicator of your education policy as to where professional representation, representation, trade unions are usually required. Although it would obviously be odd for you to sit in your box, it is appropriate not to be on the side of the government, but to be so evasive, this is how you approach professional organisations, that they are practically constantly pushing them onto opposition parties, I think that is wrong. It is not right to talk about their policies in general, the way they treat the opposition, especially in the field of education. Look at how many amendments, how many legislative amendments have been made by the opposition, and how many have you accepted. Obviously, they also put the opposition in a position that cannot be constructive in all situations and, in any situation, cannot be constructive. I think that in a normal world, a normal government would not focus primarily on how to remain in power, nor would the opposition's main task, a compulsion to try to replace the government at all costs, it would be more important to manifest and act according to its own principles. That is why, for example, in one of the keynote speeches in the opposition, it has gone so far as to compare your activities to the Dark Ages. I obviously disagree with that, and it was not so direct, it was significantly more nuanced, but I think this is the result of the way you manage education, the way you govern it. There are a lot of aspects that would allow us to approach the situation of public education. For example, funding. I think there's gonna be a lot of talking about this today. This is certainly an area that may not be a dialogue of deaf people, and we may be able to move a little further forward in numbers if we cannot advance in principles. I'm gonna talk about this a lot more. It is clear that the Hungarian education system is a step-by-step area within the government, underfunded, that we spend only 5 percent or less of GDP on this. We spend less than ten forints on education, young people and every hundred forints in the future, even though this depends on the country's competitiveness and sustainable development. I'll give you a list of things. Our school system is outdated, we continue to stick to the eight-class school, which, as we know, we inherited from before socialism, and the surrounding countries have already passed over many times. A change in the structure of schools would also serve to give more attention to basic skills than it is now. We think that this would be crucial in many respects, either in terms of school performance or even in terms of the labour market. Today we want to teach the children to write, read, count, write too quickly, too superficially, and more. This would, of course, require textbooks and curriculum that are set out in Annex XXI. He prepares students for the challenges of the century. The current NAT would like to put a complete knowledge base in the minds of students, on several occasions, but instead we believe that competences and skills should be strengthened. We need individual development, small group occupations, to find the right method. We can talk about the lack of autonomy within the education system. It's enough to see how many principals there are that are unfilled. Many teachers, who might be qualified to be school principals, see that they would be puppets at the head of the institution, so fewer and fewer people are willing to play a part in this system that is deprived of their autonomy. It would be necessary to renew teacher training, to increase the role of alternative schools, or at least not to reduce them. Appreciation of staff for education and training would be necessary. Although it has also been said in Mr Secretary of State's speech that they are devoted to this, we think that very late and very little compared to how much work they are doing. In such a time frame, the consequences of free schooling should also be faced. We see a clear increase in the separation of students from different social groups, a clear increase in segregation. Better-mode middle-class parents regularly evict their children from a school they think is worse. Schools of small settlements are depopulated, and the consequences of these can be added. It was very interesting in one of the keynote speeches to discuss the approach of the pre-2010 system to church schools, the fact that church schools were more disadvantaged. Now the reverse is true. We often say that, compared to the pre-2010 system, the current one has passed the other side of the horse, and now it is the reverse, as we believe that nationalisation, centralization, is the exact opposite of what happened before 2010. The balance should be struck between the two systems, because such swings are certainly not the direction of progress; we are making more progress on the side than we are moving forward. It is also worth talking about the area of vocational training, how vulnerable this area is, how vulnerable it is to train strip workers, how impossible it is for students to retrain themselves to another area. And one of the most important areas that I would like to end up talking about is the constant changes and changes. If everything were to function according to a pre-planned system and not constantly experimenting on students and teachers, not always changing something, then the system would easily lack peace, security and predictability and the whole system would move forward. Thank you.
u2016-11-29-16	Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. The first independent Member to come forward is the first to be heard. I give Mr Szabolcs Szabó the opportunity to comment.
u2016-11-29-17	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I think that in recent years, it has become clear to all of us what the individual parties think about Hungarian public education, including those who read various professional backgrounds about education in their spare time, they also know exactly what Együtttök thinks about education. That is why the White Paper on Education was published in 2013 and that is why we are constantly trying to adapt it to the changing public education and vocational training relationship. If someone is reading these materials, then he can clearly see that we want to achieve something else in education and in other ways. So there is such a contrast between us in terms of basics that we will not be able to reconcile it on such a day of debate. One of the very important elements of this is that there are some principles that we insist on to the extreme. We believe in professional background work, we believe in partnership, when we treat everyone who is in the education system as an equal and partner, and we think that the whole educational system should work well because we want it to be good for the child, the parent, for the teacher, for the teacher's work, and ultimately for the development of Hungarian society and economy. [[11.00]] I also said this at the committee hearing last week when Zoltán Balog was on the Committee on Culture that I consider the difference between us to be exemplary or a very well symbolizing case, which occurred at the student parlament meeting, which was given a big press release a week and a half ago, which was based on the fact that a child was screwed up because he dared to express his opinion, while we think that the goal is to have an opinion on the child, and we want him to have an opinion, and then, if he has an opinion, he can be discussed and argued with, but that would be the first goal. I will note only in parentheses about the hearing that it may also be a kind of important goal that, say, the Minister for Education knows what functional illiteracy is and such basic concepts are known, but I am closing this parentheses now because he is not here, and we are obviously unable to discuss this with Mr Secretary of State. So in the current debate, I think that the aim is perhaps not to highlight such large structural and systemic differences of thinking, because we already know that. I think that anyone who follows today's debate on the basis of reports published on the Internet or later in the press is fully aware of this. I would like to point out a few things in which, I think, there is still a chance for the government to step back a little bit, and I think it would be worth considering them, and then in the longer term, when we have the change of government, we will obviously start steering under another system, but I think we can agree on these few points that I would suggest. One is the increase of the compulsory age to 18 years. Many of us here on the opposition side have already mentioned this, and in order to avoid misunderstandings, this is not the usual figure of speech for opposition, we need to talk to, say, Benő Tapó, a major researcher in Hungarian education. This is the first sentence when it comes to public education, that it is necessary to raise the mandatory age limit to 18 years. He always says that, and I think it's worth hearing. I'll be able to reason with you longer if it's something else. Then the other, mentioned by the Secretary of State, is the situation of science subjects in vocational schools. I think it's a bad concept. Because it is possible to talk - and there are many examples internationally - about this being taught as a complex subject. But it doesn't happen to reduce the number of hours to a fraction, by the way. So we should've kept the number on the clock, and in most countries, they even did it by raising it a little bit, and then they worked out the curriculum. They do not talk at a conference in November about what solutions are available in a training course that has already started in September - curricula are being prepared, and this is being transferred to teacher training. There are teachers who know how to do it, because right now what works is that in some schools, where the geography teacher keeps this subject, he keeps it where the chemistry teacher keeps chemistry, there is no transition. I'm telling you, this has international experience, and it's worth looking at and giving it time. I would just like to quote from the European Commission's report, which has just been published, and it is often referred to, especially Bence Rétvári, that it is also clearly stated that the great risk of this is to limit the opportunities for children studying in vocational schools and to limit their access to higher education. It is written, read it, Mr Secretary of State, written in the report of the European Commission. The third is the basic equipment gaps in schools. Of course, you can refer to permanent restructuring here, you've been ruling for six years. I take this very badly when I go to these foundational school dances in my constituency, and this is still an important question, that is, in part, these balls are there for donations and all kinds of prize coupons, because something about paper, eraser and pen has to be bought. So it doesn't work in the long run because parents, relatives, all kinds of donors settle these costs. That's unacceptable, I think it's a XXI. In a country of the century. The fourth such area, which I think should be settled very quickly - and you should back off here - is the part of foundation and private schools that remains. And here they are in a very bad situation mainly in vocational training. If someone was watching, I don't know if in his spare time someone was looking at professional structure decisions, he could see that for the next academic year, foundation schools were almost completely scattered. So what happens to these schools? Either they're being liquidated - it's going to be bad for everyone if the foundation liquidates its own school - or they're being dragged under church institutions that they're partially proposing to them. It's an ideological argument, if someone explains to me why it's better professionally, I'd thank you, and it's more expensive, because it's obviously costing taxpayers more than running a foundation school. Or they'll go under the state maintenance. I don't even understand why professionally it would necessarily be a law, that it's better and it's more expensive again. In parentheses, in order to avoid misunderstandings, I know exactly that there were some foundation schools where there were serious problems professionally, financially and so on. They are individual cases, they must be punished or locked up, settled, but not the whole sector must be executed. The fifth is the question of segregation. This is also known, there is an infringement procedure against Hungary because Roma students are being mass-segregated in Hungary. And I know it's not the result of the last six years, it's been that way for a very long time, they've only been ruling for six years, and nothing's happened in six years. This is a very serious step forward. Here I would refer to what John Lazarus said about church schools in a different context. I would quote, not literally, but, in substance, the Bishop of Vác going, that, in one way, the ecclesiastical institutions are very much responsible for this segregation, and they should also do something, so I would very much ask you to do something about it and not to make plans, but to do something on the merits. I propose these five topics to talk about in the future, and I'm telling you, we'll deal with the rest on a systemic basis after a change of government. Thank you very much for your patience.
u2016-11-29-18	I give the floor to Secretary of State László Palkovics.
u2016-11-29-19	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear Members, Ladies and Gentlemen, I would just like to respond very briefly to what has been said, because, as I see it, this is going to be a very long debate day, and we will forget later, so let's roll the debate a little further. I would like to begin in the order of the speeches with Minister Hiller, Congressman. He had some specific questions. I'd like to answer them first. What role do we have in public employment in the education system? We do not think of a role that has been mentioned, so neither among the educators nor among the other educators, we do not think that public employment is a good solution, and we do not support that, so I do not know what the information was about. As for the round table on higher education, it started again in 2013 and I think it has been working successfully ever since. That the presumption that this is not the case, what it comes from, I don't know, that I usually participate in these things, and so far it seems that the expected impact that we expect from it is certainly the round table of higher education, because there is no decision in higher education matters, a change of concept that we do not want to discuss there. Next question is who writes NAT. I just asked for it. It's just a small screen on this phone. I'd like to mention a few names. Here was the name of Benő Trap. Benő Cut is one who deals with one part of this, the area of measurement. On behalf of the MTA, the Hungarian Academy of Sciences appointed Valeria Csépe, who led the task force, who in the meantime became Chairman of the MAB, so he kept the leadership of the task force, but he is the professional leader of it. And then I'd like to give you names, if there's a chance for that right now, as soon as I can read these. The list is very long, here we have torn apart the content of the content development task force itself, depending on who does what, the NAT itself, the management of transitions, the development of basic skills. Now I can name names, but I would rather say functions who participate in this: the representative of the School Association of Practitioners, the Association of Hungarian Librarians, several members of the National Council of Public Education, the Association of Hungarian Musicians and Dance Artists participate in this, the Education Office, the Association of Teachers, the Association of Parents' Associations, the Association of National School Directors, the Eötvös Loránd Physical Society, the Bolyai Mathematical Society, the Hungarian Academy of Arts, the representatives of various higher education institutions, ELTE, University of Szeged, the Hungarian Psychology Society, Károly Eszterházy College. [[11.10]] That means over a hundred experts involved in this. This also includes a European Union project, which is involved in financing this and, by the way, is structuring it. So what I think is that those professionals who know how to teach here are all here. To your question, the 150 centers: I'm not sure I understand the 150, but it's probably about the presumptions of where we can provide good education, there's been a lot of talk in this case, access to education, to be of good quality, there are different conditions. One condition is that we have to look at where, what quality of education we can provide and that we need to be able to improve. And we'll get back to you in the debate. The questions raised by Mrs Dóra Dúró: reducing the differences in the functioning of the CLIK. I think that if, by the way, the organization that is close to the school and sees the functioning of the schools in its surroundings, where, in fact, if the differences are large, it can equalise this, I think that this is precisely in the direction of how this difference can be reduced. Here, it is possible to do various coordination activities between different schools in the district, to transfer funds, to regroup teachers, to create structures where, say, the segregation of a school begins, so we can intervene immediately. This means a significantly more successful structure than central management or government management, because it is in one hand here, so in one hand, the kind of intervention that can handle these processes is close to the schools. Creating a chance: yes, that is what it is, so you must be able to provide a good education, of course there are many ways. The fact that the child is taken out of his family, I think that the opinions on this are strongly divided, there are negative foreign examples, there are positive foreign examples, but one thing is certain, for example, that early starting of childhood education, compulsory kindergartening, they know exactly these matters, I think that they can handle them well. This includes the Nursing College Network, including talented research programs, which really work in this direction. Another question is what organisational form should this be, whether it should be a boarding school. I think that good education must be ensured, that it should be avoided that what the Congresswoman has referred to is happening, and that there is much that can be done with this situation. At the textbook market, the number of books available has decreased from 3700 to 3400, but there are different numbers of books. So obviously there are very large numbers of books and small numbers. By the way, how the textbook market was consolidated, here families pay 3 billion HUF less for those textbooks than before the conversion, I think this is the important thing, that the cost of this can be controlled. Of course, we agree that the textbook should be good, if it is not good, then it must be fixed, so it is definitely true. I think that having a choice is not necessarily a big problem. Here, when weighted by the number, this figure shows something quite different, so this is what the director of KELLO referred to. The fact that the nationalisation of municipalities does not allow the municipality to see the functioning of the schools: I think that they can see significantly better than they can in the present state through the same district council. If the view of the school's operation means that we can pay the gas bill and the electric bill, then it's long gone wrong, so that's not the important thing, but that they can really formulate different issues for the school, and that's exactly what these processes are, which is the beginning of segregation, we can avoid them. That is why this school district council is important, and I think it is significantly more important than the impact of a municipality on a given school, and our chances are simply increasing. And as the school principal, no one ever said that the school principal wasn't the head of the school, he had to be the head of the school. What is important, however, is that you perform this function, and to do so, you must do everything in your power to do so. On the one hand, the school principal is in a particular situation, on the other hand, the school community is a community that has to make decisions on professional matters, but the school principal can then create it or do it. This is such a specific role, which distinguishes it from a company where they operate differently. The school principal must be helped in this, especially through training, in a different way than otherwise. In response to Mr Ikotity only briefly, so the development of competence: I think the aim is for children to have competence. This obviously means lexical knowledge and ability, skill, the proportion of that, and that changes a lot. There are educational systems where we put too much emphasis on skill and skill development, and then we realized that, in fact, without knowledge, certain issues would be damaged and then we returned. The definition of this, I think, is the task that competent academics must be able to handle in some way. One thing is certain, and we do agree that it is necessary to have applicable knowledge for those leaving school, whether it is the next level of school or the labour market, if it is not, then there is a problem, and the surveys we have done here have confirmed that. And calling the school principal a puppet, I wouldn't do that. The school principal is the head of the school, so the fact that he's a puppet, I don't think he is. We agree, and I have already mentioned this, that the renewal of teacher training and the further development of teacher training are a priority, as I mentioned in the summary, and with a first priority, it is indeed among our projects, how we can make teachers more capable of performing their tasks. A free school choice is a question. I think that, after the change of regime, this was one of the achievements of the Hungarian school system, which, of course, will be possible to discuss at this moment, I think that here the opinions on this issue are strongly divided, that anyone would want to restore it, but this is an issue that can, of course, be debated. School autonomy is an interesting question. The Director of the OECD was here last week, and we talked about this case, how it should be interpreted, what works better if the school has complete freedom to do what it does, or if the school system has a well-defined minimum, but the autonomy beyond that which the school can decide is stronger. It's the combination of these that seems effective. Now we have started to practice this by creating flexible courses where we can deviate from this. Let us now look at a larger attempt to see how they want it and how schools are going to live with it. I think the possibility of that is very great, that is exactly what can be used. On functional analfabetism to Mr Szabolcs Szabó: Minister is not here, so he cannot respond to this, so Minister knows exactly what functional analfabetism is in view of the fact that he has also written a study on this, which we are pleased to present. So there was a debate about the percentage and what it means now, so I think that was a bit of a misinterpretation. On the one hand, the Hungarian community says that the level of vocational training needs to be increased. Interestingly, the OECD also says the same thing. In Hungary, the level of vocational training is low, it does not match the expectations of the economic environment, and the OECD also recommends that we make any changes. A vocational high school is the type of institution that results in exactly this. In addition to leading to a graduation and, by the way, preparing for admissions in that field, it inevitably gives the student a profession beyond that, so it is possible to change that. Here's a very bad condition, if you're just a graduate, but you're not finished with the university, maybe you're out of it somewhere in the labour market, and you're far from position. The fact that the expertise acquired in Hungary, whether it is a secondary education or a university degree, the value of this, must be looked at at the results of the OECD. We're at the beginning of it. In part, we are there because, let's say, in Hungary there is no degree-unemployment, 2.2 to 2.3 percent at this very moment. The same is true in Europe, and we are one of the low ones, where there is a very strong job opportunity with professional qualifications and thus a high level of vocational training, and the return on these is also good. It has a good return both from the point of view of the person, so from the point of view of the individual, and it has a good return also from the point of view of the community, because what we turn to it at this level - calculation is behind it, obviously, it is precisely understood - returns very well. So I think that vocational school is exactly the type of institution where we can handle these two cases at the same time. Of course, you can argue about how important the science class is. I think that it is important; not rather than mathematics, physics, chemistry and biology, as we had a debate about this in the period 2003-2004, so that there are no basic disciplines. No, basic disciplines are needed, and you should be able to apply it, and the application is precisely this science subject. And that's how it turned out, yeah, that's how it turned out. There are situations in life where you have to react quickly, that's what happened here. I trust that in the school community, as you mentioned, there are teachers who can teach and solve this. This means, of course, that there will come out a subject created precisely by this community, and it was not written and defined by me or the educational development institute, but by that professional community itself. [[11.20]] So I don't see it as a negative, but I see it as a positive, even an opportunity. It's a question of segregation. The extent to which we are dealing with this: precisely the infringement procedure, which does not seem to start, is what we have put together for the European Commission in its preparation, in which it appears that a significant part of our programmes is precisely in the direction in which we can avoid segregation or matters leading to it. So the fact that this government doesn't deal with it, I think it's a powerful exaggeration. We're in business. Thank you. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-11-29-20	I now give the floor to Secretary of State Csaba Dömötör.
u2016-11-29-21	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Allow me to react briefly, all the more so, because education is indeed a strategic issue, because it is about our future, and it is therefore appropriate that we review not only the results of the past period from time to time, but also what are the most important things ahead. This government wants to make teachers appreciate - I also welcome their organisations who are here - parents help to educate children, students get competitive knowledge, and all of this under appropriate conditions. As regards the appreciation of teachers, I would also like to say here that between 2013 and 2017 teachers' wages increase by 50 percent, with previously huge regional differences in this area. The introduction of a career model also means predictability for them. Employees who support education will also receive a HUF 35-35 000 allowance, and the career model is also part of the nursery educators who received a 40-60 thousand HUF increase in January this year. On the other hand - I regret that Mr Hiller is no longer here - we can remember that the former government has put thousands of teachers on the street. It's an important circumstance, and I'm sorry that all this has been left out of the historical overview. As far as helping parents is concerned, two thirds of students already receive free textbooks, this affects a total of 733 thousand children; and since the change of regime, the government has spent the largest amount of money on children's meals, now 318 thousand children receive free meals three times a day. Just to remind you, when this government took office, this number was 92,000. Instead of 92,000, 318 thousand get free meals. The government will also ensure that during the holiday, when there is no education, this catering program is still ongoing. It will provide 6.7 billion forints. I'm saying this separately because many people have referred to disadvantaged students. What we want to do is not to put anyone at a disadvantage because they are born in a less prosperous part of the country and not to harm anyone because they are born into a less prosperous family. It is not possible for a parent to be unable to send children to school because he is unable to pay for the textbook. The system of free textbooks also contributes to this. And then, as I mentioned, it's important for students to learn under better circumstances. This is why it is important that 521 schools were renewed in the development period behind us, and there are 26 new gymnasiums in connection with the goal of everyday physical education, and 25 new schools are established in the settlements, of which 18 are already under construction. However, the main objective is not primarily about raw numbers. What we want is for young Hungarians to be given competitive knowledge and better knowledge. Allow me to give your attention to the mathematical and scientific trend analysis that I understand has been published today, and this study provides comparative data on the educational performance of each country. The Hungarian students participated in this, students from 50 countries participated, and we see that the average result of the Hungarian students is significantly higher than the average of the 50 countries, and the results, if you look at the fourth graders, will also improve. I only raise this here because there are many opinions that call into question the performance of Hungarian students. I can only repeat myself, in closing: the government's goal is to give educators respect for their daily hard work, to help parents send their children to school, and to give students competitive knowledge. I would like to argue with Mr Szabolcs Szabó, who said that there is a conflict in the Parliament on educational matters that we will not be able to overcome. I think these are the essential issues that I have mentioned and I think that we can all agree on. I can also draw this conclusion from the speeches made in recent minutes, even if there are apparent differences in detail. So these are measures in which we count on the support of all parliamentary parties. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-11-29-22	Now it is possible to make two-minute comments. Congressman István Ikotity has spoken. You have the floor.
u2016-11-29-23	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I have a question for the Secretary of State. "Secretary of State said a sentence in his introduction," I quote. He hoped that the curriculum proposals would be used by more and more people. That's what you mentioned about the high schools. My question, Mr. Secretary, is what it means to trust him. In a system that you have been so centralized, how can you interpret that expression in a system? Mr Secretary of State must have come from the business world, where these terms, such as monitoring, are often used. How can this happen if Mr. Secretary of State uses the term "the "confidence" in him? Don't they know what's going on locally, how it's used in vocational schools? That is what I would like to hear from the Secretary of State. I get a lot of feedback about these science subjects that simply, the teacher who comes to the teacher teaches his own subject. If a geography teacher has this science subject, he obviously doesn't have a degree in teaching other subjects, obviously he'll pass on his own territory, which he's prepared for, and has many years of routine. That's the simplest thing he's got, obviously, and he's got skills for that. This is what we have been critical of many times that if you study at a high school, for example, from a geography teacher, how you will be able to learn from medical school if you do not have that knowledge. So my main question, Mr Secretary of State: what does it mean to trust that more and more people are applying these syllabus proposals? I'm waiting for your answer.
u2016-11-29-24	The answer is coming right away. Secretary of State László Palkovics has the floor.
u2016-11-29-25	Thank you very much. Honourable Congressman, It's probably either I wasn't clear then, or sometimes I talk fast, and it's a problem to describe it. The fact that I am confident that more and more of the flexible curriculum proposals are being applied does not apply to the vocational school. This concerned the development of flexible curriculum proposals within the existing system by 1 September in order to reduce the burden on students, and I hope that the freedom of teachers - this is an institution-autronomical - will also include that, if they are free to decide to stick to this course, or otherwise, those options, and that this is not necessarily the subject of the academic proposal, but differing. So I trust that within the framework of the present system, taking advantage of the autonomy, the freedom provided by the amendment of the regulation, teachers teaching in schools are indeed different, and indeed they are not trying to continue to operate with the 10 per cent difference so far, but to a greater extent, I have referred to this. But speaking of vocational schools - it was obviously a misunderstanding here - and I have a few more seconds on how to approach this science subject, there are many approaches to this. There is integrated or complex science; and there is the kind of scientific approach that is applied in England, where the basic disciplines remain, but to integrate it there is a kind of, if it is to be translated, research methodological knowledge, so how to manage them together. That's also a good approach. There, it continues to be taught by teachers who, by the way, know the basic discipline and add something. I think that the solution chosen by the vocational schools is probably a good solution at the moment. [[11.30]] Here, the profession will have to decide what kind of approach we choose. That will be the case - I pointed out in the introduction - now based on the experience that we are actually getting in the classroom. It is very important to understand that this subject is a subject taught in three hours, without a requirement for graduation, without a subject based on it. This is indeed the basis that has been acquired so far, which puts discipline into another context, so it improves and changes the children's relationship with science, and it helps. That's exactly what this was supposed to do. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-11-29-26	I now give the floor to Congressman László Pósán in two minutes.
u2016-11-29-27	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, I just want to reflect on a few things that have been said. One is the one István Hiller raised. He said that political debate was devalued, that it was indifferent. I have to be honest with you that you're right, especially if you're looking at all of this in reflection on his thoughts. For he drew up a subject that simply does not exist. He said that we want to put schools in the hands of the churches - that is not the case - just because someone in the government found that church schools are good. With that kind of power, if we commend anything, it's possible to construct a brainchild that can stop you from thinking. So if the political debate day goes in this direction, it will really be indifferent, because we are not talking about the point, not the facts and not the specifics. The other point that Congressman Ikotity has made is that six years is a great time and that we are still vouching for the previous government's actions. Of course, Congressman - it's true he's not here right now [[Dr. László Varga: He went out for a minute! If you go out there, will we say the same thing? He'll be right back.]] - because simple mathematical calculation, public education, whatever you look at, 12 years, is three government cycles. Consequently, if something has an impact, a long-term impact, the education system is like this, whether you like it or not, that's how it works. Let me also make a third comment: Dóra Dúró made a few comments on the textbook market and brought up the financial interest of textbook teachers, now less so. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and That is true, but let us add immediately that the interest of textbook teachers has always been built into the price of the textbook. And let us add immediately that, behind a large number of so-called professional criticisms of textbooks, there are rather serious material interests. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the Fidesz ranks.]]
u2016-11-29-28	I give the floor to Congressman Zoltán Grumpy in two minutes.
u2016-11-29-29	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm interested to hear the answers of the Secretary of State. I'd like to ask you a specific question. Today, from a village school that I went to say I used to go to, like, one, three, four, two - wasn't that the training - is there any chance that any of the kids could go to college? I don't think so. It used to be. We should think about what the big mistake you're saying is that we don't even need this debate day, or at least your spokesperson said this morning, because everything here is fine. And I think everything's not okay. Everything will be fine if knowledge is not only for the privileged. You know, inbreeding in livestock is a very, very dangerous story, so you need to think about changing the bulls. [[Defiance from the Fidesz ranks.]] Nice and slow, and it would be nice to stop this Russian razor method, the Russian automatic razor method, that sooner or later everyone will have the same head. I think you should stop doing that, and then try to adjust your training to your needs and your local skills. For example, in places where, say, children might be able to be brought back to the life situation dictated by their environment. Let's just say, in Borsod County, it might not be a ski break, I've said that a few times, but let's say, in the autumn period, let them help their parents collect what the family can make a living from all winter. We miss this flexibility, because the cataloging that happens will end in nothing good. By the way, I have a teaching wife who has been teaching at the same school for 33 years, and I can tell you that very, very few have the chance to take anything in life. This system is inadequate, fellow Members. If we don't change that, then there may be an elite in Hungary that will get everything, but there will be a huge problem. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2016-11-29-30	Secretary of State László Palkovics has the floor.
u2016-11-29-31	I do not think that these debates are unnecessary. Mr President, I would like to reply to the Member. I'm from a school where the first and third and second and fourth were together, and we had the gym class on the bench, and the floor was linoleum. [[Zoltán Haughty: Silent watch, loud watch!]] That's right, it was a quiet watch and a loud watch. By the way, if you answer the question, at least we're examples of going to college from here. [[Zoltán Grimlock: It wasn't just now, I'm 57 years old!]] I'm a little younger, but not much. Here I would like to continue the idea: that education system was no better than today. It was not better because the opportunities available today, be it for knowledge, the tools, the methodology, were far from available, and these opportunities can be used. [[Moore from the ranks of the MSZP.]] You can live. [[Moore from the ranks of the MSZP. Ildikó Bangóné Borbély: Are you serious? Interviews from the ranks of the MSZP: Serious?]] Yeah. I think there are good teachers today. I probably trust teachers more than Congressman. [[Interviews from the ranks of the MSZP: That is not what we said!]] I think there are good teachers today. By the way, if someone's abilities are lacking, the skills that are needed in a class, let's say, they probably had children in your school and mine, we can call them HHH, but we can also call them gypsy children, people who weren't so smart, they were a little smarter, they can hold this class together, and they can develop them together. Our school system is suitable for this, by the way. If someone doesn't have that ability, it can be improved. In a better situation than this, I think we have never been in terms of our condition than we are today and in the coming period. It would be a mistake if we didn't live with it. Back to that, so you can go from such a school to university anyway. [[Zoltán Grimlock: It's just not gonna happen.]] In fact, I think that you and I both profited much more from going to school in such an environment, because the social skills and skills that have developed there have more impact on our further lives than, say, doing so in an absolutely homogeneous school. Thank you. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-11-29-32	Ladies and gentlemen, We're going back to normal speeches. In this context, I give the floor first to Mr László Pósán.
u2016-11-29-33	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Three quarters of a year ago, we had a debate about public education, public education. Now the opposition has again initiated such a debate day. Obviously, if we approach the issue by providing concrete, good answers to specific, emerging problems, obviously answers that are part of the remit of legislation, rather than an issue of a specific professional nature, which needs to be discussed at other levels, then it makes sense. In the event that we want to talk side by side and bring political goals into the system quite simply, I probably have to say what István Hiller said is that it is devalued, because I don't think the wider public is interested in it either. With regard to this day of debate, I have long wondered what the motivation is. So what is the reason why the opposition is now initiating such a debate day, because it is difficult to come up with very specific reasons from the perspective of the various indicators. In many respects, the problems that have arisen previously are in such a state that they are either partially resolved or in progress or are being discussed. No one has ever argued that there are no ongoing problems that are much smaller or bigger. These must obviously be corrected, corrected and, in many respects, in particular Parliament, decisions and laws have been taken that have led to changes at the legislative level. If we look at other indicators, we also need to say that we are seeing significant improvements, as the amount of GDP spent on education, even in relation to the EU average, is particularly good compared to the fact that we are now, in principle, initiating a debate day. So if we're wondering what the reason is, I'll tell you honestly, I'm having a hard time finding any other explanation than that the kind of mood that was, say, a year ago, and what you wanted politically for your benefit, apparently you've been sitting down lately, so you're trying to revive it, if that's possible. Another important reason is that serious business interests, whether they like it or not, suffer damage. Business interests of a nature that were previously linked to the system operated under the MSZP-SZDSZ administration. As of 2017, this has been known, since no one has hidden it, the teacher's further education will be placed in the walls of the universities. There are 900 companies on the market that have made a living. The interests of 900 private companies were damaged from one moment to the next. [[11.40]] I must say that when such questions come up, it is good to see that there are interests of this nature in the background. At a time when the question of the textbook market is being raised over and over again, it is good to know that the interests of textbook publishers are behind this, and there is also a question of money, not even to a small extent. And then we didn't even talk about rebuilding the pedagogical consulting system, which was mostly broken down below you. In this respect, private companies that have made their living on the market are once again in a position to limit their opportunities, whether they like it or not. So it seems that there are serious business interests here. And, of course, one more important thing must not be forgotten. This debate is also suitable for opposition parties to reaffirm, in essence, the kind of political approach that can be achieved. Let us not forget that the political approach between the left and Jobbik started at the earliest in the field of education. We can all remember that in 2010-2011, even in 2012, Jobbik represented the concept of public schools, and then, when we look at what is happening today, they suddenly blow the same thing as the socialists. The idea of the boarding school, who wouldn't remember it, was Ferenc Gyurcsány, who first threw it into the public's mind around 2007. [[Deterioration from the benches of the MSZP.]] You have to pull out the newspapers of your time, it's in laps. Now it's the Jobbik who is eager to represent the same, of course. So the thing is, from this point of view, the positions are coming closer, and from this point of view, the ground for strengthening cooperation is clearly the debate day. And let us not forget one more important thing: when, on the occasion of the debate day, the situation of what was, let us say, before 2010 and why it was better, or why it was worse, there is also a political self-certification, not small. I would just like to point out that László Sólyom was the President of the Republic when there were serious problems in public education, and the President then asked a body called the Council of Wise Men. [[Dr. István Hiller: He wore a nerd shirt...]] This Council prepared its report for 2010, drawing a very critical picture of the public education conditions of the Socialist Government period. We do not want to bring this back, fellow Members. Let's see what the Council of Wisemen has said. [[Dr. István Hiller: He said the same thing...]] Just to see if, compared to what you're saying right now, there's a difference, in English, whether or not you've learned anything from it. You are bringing up the need to increase the compulsory age limit to 18 years over and over again. The Council of Philosophers said the following: "The crisis in education has deepened the fact that the transformation caused by the increase in the compulsory age limit has taken place without due preparation or conception. In the course of the MSZP-SZDSZ government, the institutional system of pedagogical institutions and consultants was gradually abolished. This was restored by the civilian government, as I mentioned. By the way, the Council of Wise Men itself complained that this had been abolished. The Council of Wise Men stated that during the MSZP-SZDSZ government, a large proportion of teachers had existential problems. I'm reporting that this has changed since then, and there's been a significant wage increase going on for years. The Council of Philosophers also said: . During the MSZP-SZDSZ government, the school was unable to maintain values; the adjustment points were lost, which had a dramatic impact on kindergarten-school education and the thinking of young people. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Changing the Public Education Act was trying to remedy this. And I would also quote from this report: "The balance between school rights and obligations has been disrupted during the MSZP-SZDSZ government. In most of the schools, education has been put in the background. There is a lack of opportunities and activities for students and faculty to become a real community, which makes common value and standards impossible. This confusing situation loosens character formation and moral education; it becomes lenient to violations and fraud. School violence is growing. That is what we wanted to change, and I think that we are on the right track in this regard. I'm not saying it's perfectly all right, but the fact that there's been a significant shift in this area would be a shame to deny it. In comparison, if we look at what you say, they are united in the end of the world in the field of education, using lousy, shameful, diverse indicators. I think that if we approach the issue in this way, we really cannot talk about the point, because everyone will simply go overboard that will distract attention and even make meaningful dialogue impossible. The aim of a debate day would be to discuss the problems that arise, the problems that are, once again, those that belong to the Parliament, the legislative area, and to discuss them. What is already the task of the profession, whether it is a question of NAT and so on, is obviously not to be discussed in Parliament, because it is a different area. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2016-11-29-34	I give the floor to Secretary Csaba Dömötör.
u2016-11-29-35	I would like to respond to the suggestion made by Congressman Zoltán Gőgös. I think it's important to think about what a young person in a small town in the countryside can expect. I myself come from a county that is not one of the most affluent counties, and perhaps not the city I come from. That is why this is an important question. You're forgetting one thing; I really hope you're not crying back the Kádár system's education policy. [[Zoltán Pride: No.]] and it doesn't refer to the past. [[Zoltán Grimlock: It's gonna get worse.]] If you are referring to your governance, what I would like to say to you is that when you led the education policy, there were enormous regional differences in the situation of each school, and this also affected the opportunities of students. [[Zoltán Grimlock: Now I don't!]] The place of birth has practically decided what opportunities individual students, young people, have. [[Zoltán Haughty interrupts.]] You've closed hundreds of schools, that's the thing. 381 sites have been closed... [[Zoltán Grimlock: You opened them all, didn't you?]] In 381 places, the educational activity ceased when you had the opportunity to put education policy in order. [[Zoltán Gőgös: Local government reserve, in case you didn't know!]] I would like to tell you that if the wages of teachers are increased, students living in small towns are more likely to become university students. Allow me to give you an example: while in 2013 a teacher with a college degree could earn 122 thousand forints, next September this amount will be 183,000 forints. If 730,000 students get textbooks for free, then people living in small towns are more likely to be college students, because it is not possible that someone does not go to school because their parents cannot pay the related costs. If 318 thousand children get free meals, for the same reasons, they have a better chance of finally becoming a university student. [[Zoltán Grimlock: University student? One of those?]] And even if more than 500 schools are renewed across the country, there is a greater chance that the child living in the small settlement will become a university student. We have a lot to do, but your suggestion is important, so we expect your support in the future. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the benches of the governing parties. Zoltán Grimlock: So am I.]]
u2016-11-29-36	I now give the floor to Congressman László Varga.
u2016-11-29-37	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen of the State Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, It's been four days of debate, and it's been going on for the last week here at the National Assembly. Perhaps it is worth a little linking up these debates, because, in addition to being so disrupted, it was obviously the intention to go beyond that, perhaps that was the government's intention, but ultimately we are talking about related issues, issues that I am convinced are Hungary's fate issues. First, the causes of the shortage of labour, the shortage of skilled labour, the effects of which were discussed here overnight in the Parliament last Wednesday. Yesterday, a debate on EU developments 2014-2020 took place. Now we are discussing the state of public education, and the commonly called man 40, first proposed by the MSZP, will be a day of debate as the end of the day. The lack of labour and the lesson of last Wednesday's debate day were, in any case, to me, to migrate from the country, some 600 thousand people have already done so, and most of the most qualified, adaptable workers have done so. It's a historical situation. At the same time, high levels of unemployment and the lack of skilled labour are present in certain areas in Hungary. There is an international process, as labour flows freely. This workforce in Europe is increasingly being paid. There are amazing differences in average earnings - in Austria the average salary is four times as high - but we have also fallen very harshly from the Visegrád states. [[11.50]] In recent years, this lag has grown, so it is no wonder that workers are migrating. This process is delayed and only partially followed by an increase in the minimum wage, with wage increases in fire-fighting and only in respect of certain layers, which, by the way, have long been proposed by the opposition and the Hungarian Socialist Party. With regard to EU funds, we have obviously said, our representatives and speakers have said that the problem with this is how you do it, and as they plan the 2014-20 cycle, that a significant part of the funds are for further enrichment of the Urising Fidesz elite, and now we can obviously say our opinion on the state of public education. In short, by linking these three debate days, I could say that solving the fate issues set out in the first day of debate is the key issue, which must serve development resources in Hungary, and it must also serve public education in order to create and strengthen a knowledge-based society in Hungary, in which citizens can freely adapt to the challenges that have changed, and the knowledge required by the fourth industrial revolution can easily be acquired, by their own will, within the framework of the services provided by the state. And the fourth day of debate is, of course, about those who have spent most of their lives working, building the country, otherwise able to live a peaceful old age with a proper pension. There are also very serious problems in Hungary today, also seeing the rate of pension increases. How did they respond to this challenge of building a knowledge-based society in an open labour market with Europe's absorption effect? After 2010, you have said that I have said this many times in debates, that a large part of the large distribution systems is wasteful, that is what they have said about health, but we are discussing education in particular, that is what they have said about education, and that must be centralised. There's been a large withdrawal, if you look at the numbers, they're very clear. So you can say otherwise, but the numbers are talkative, I can tell you, and the redistribution has been continuously reduced, so less resources have been allocated to public education. It is clear from the use of words how the system of public education is approached, because the law is called the Public Education Act, in Hungarian, the primary meaning of the former public education system is not the ability to adapt, the development of a knowledge-based society, but an ideological reeducation is also taking place. [[László Kucsák: Oh, no!]] which makes it comfortable for your policy to raise future generations and, by the way, is a cheap and easily exploitable workforce for the work-based society you often refer to. For the record, that's what the amendment to the Labour Code was all about. It's very clear. This, your choice of values, serves the Urizing Fidesz elite, the new feudalism that you are building, against which I believe is the model of a knowledge-based society. During the transformations, this has been said many times, it has not been properly agreed. I think that the way they addressed the representatives of the trade unions and professional organisations sitting behind us in the box, in the first round, this kind of impetuousness on the part of some of their representatives, has also led to the fact that, by the beginning of the year, the atmosphere in public education has escalated until the beginning of the year, that serious waves of protest have started. As a Member of the Parliament of Miskolc, let me say that this wave of protests started from Miskolc, there were five thousand people in a rural town, which has not been visible and experienced for years, and tens of thousands of people were in Kossuth Square. Your answer to that was obviously fatigue and masquerade. I consider this to be very little, and I strongly reject the revelations that have taken place with regard to each initiative. Knowing the initiativeers in Miskolc, I can say that it is those who are respected, very serious, respected teachers who have had enough of their opinions on the problems of public education, it is worth listening to and listening to, but you do not do so. As a Member of the Parliament of Miskolc, I must address one more issue that is important to us and that concerns reservations. I have often said that I do not believe that, in the case at hand, state reservations are contrary to the interests of children, but in some settlements I think they are. So I am not protesting that in smaller settlements, in the case of small schools, public education institutions that were previously reserved for the state should be returned. This is obviously a lack of resources for small settlements, they have struggled before, and it is difficult to solve this. However, school cities can maintain their schools, where they traditionally play an important role in public life, as well as in local public life in Miskolc, but also in other school expectations, they are of such a majority opinion that they would like to maintain these schools. The amendment is therefore necessary, so that school cities can be maintained, it is therefore necessary to give the municipalities the opportunity. This is an absolutely important amendment later, obviously by assigning the right norm. Teacher wages were also mentioned in an unworthy context that, in fact, this was the first thing to start protests. It's an obvious lie, but let's talk about it a little bit. The first and obvious hoax of teachers' promises about your salaries was to remove the possibility of raising the minimum wage from category A1 to increase the pay table as a whole. This was promised to the teachers, but this opportunity was taken out. I'm just saying, according to next year's minimum wage increase, this takes an average of HUF 25,000 out of a teacher's pocket, that this option, minimum wage monitoring, is not possible in relation to teacher pay increases. Many unworthy things have been said about technical workers on previous days of debate. I think it is unacceptable that in most places they have not received the pay supplement, where they do not work in the public education system. There are also some who have a net salary of HUF 72,000 in the order of magnitude, and they did not receive a salary supplement of HUF 70,000, which is, in any case, a month's salary. This is unacceptable, as is the fact that the influence of politics can be clearly felt in relation to school principal elections. I could bring more of this up to you from my constituency, Miskolc, for high schools and elementary schools. It can be seen that even if they are not supported by anyone on the faculty, parents, or local public life, this is obviously unacceptable. If there were more say in local public life and on the ground teachers and parents in education, that would obviously not happen. Finally, I would like to talk about lowering the age limit for compulsory education, which clearly cannot build a knowledge-based society, and it is also very talkative that it is possible to join public work from 16 years onwards. Tell me how a student who, in a disadvantaged area, does not get a profession or a diploma, gets out of the school bench and then becomes a public worker, can even fit into a knowledge-based society, so that he can acquire knowledge that can continue to serve his and his family's welfare. Thank you, Mr. President.
u2016-11-29-38	Before I hand over the meeting, I give the floor to Secretary of State László Palkovics. [[Dr. János Latorcai, vice-president of the Parliament, takes the chair.]]
u2016-11-29-39	Thank you very much. Mr President, I would like to reflect on the point raised by Mr László Varga, as regards the discussion, on whom and how we have agreed. I think that the conciliation process that started in February, whether someone was involved or not, was certainly very honorable. I would also like to thank the people here and the teachers who participated in this. I'm sorry that Mrs. Gallon left, we disagreed on a lot of things, but we agreed on a lot of things. I think we have had very fruitful and very effective discussions with the educators' strike committee, so much so that the solution from 25 points to 20 points is also a solution. So I would like to thank you for that, regardless of the way in which you participated in the round table of public education. Here, on the question of Mr Hiller, who is on a task force, I could not read that list because it meant hundreds of people. [[12.00]] As far as the withdrawal is concerned, let's clear some of the numbers here because it depends on what we're talking about. In 2010, the cost calculated on the basis of COFOG, the Classification of Functions of Government was HUF 1571 billion, HUF 1791 billion in 2014 and HUF 1874 billion in 2015. Although we do not have final numbers here yet in 2016, this can go up to HUF 2000 billion. The fact that this has indeed changed in proportion to GDP, while GDP has also increased, I think that it is not necessarily a problem that our GDP is increasing. If you look at the same number on a student, on a child, then there's growth, just to be fully aware of that. It's a pay raise for teachers. I think that's what we talked about. Here is that teachers would have been fooled by anyone... - I think there was a salary increase here, 50 percent between 2013 and 2017. I think that no one doubted that this was really necessary. The question is, of course, whether the level of this is really what we want. No, obviously not, obviously we'll keep doing this. Nevertheless, if we look at the OECD 2015 report, teachers' wages have increased to the highest extent by far in Hungary. Again, the level we've reached isn't what we think we're trying to achieve. We are 82 percent of the Hungarian average salary in 2017, obviously we will have to deal with this. Congressman's comment that we did not appoint a school principal who was otherwise supported by everyone was indeed some of these cases, the number of which does not exceed ten, and by the way, we have appointed hundreds of directors, so we say that it is not appropriate to generalise. I think that there are a number of aspects here, which I'm not sure is always the case. I would like to give an example here in the case of recently published school directors who were also appointed in spite of the faculty, the student community, but they have clearly done their job well, since they have been able to lead such a movement. So I think the generalization here really, really doesn't hold up. Thank you. [[It's a rare round of applause from the pro-government ranks.]]
u2016-11-29-40	Secretary of State, I would like to point out to the technical staff that you have not removed Mr. Secretary of State's three minutes of 10 seconds from the time frame of the Fidesz fraction, and I would like to make this up to you. From the KDNP Group, there is a response from Mrs Rózsa Hoffmann. Here you go, Congresswoman.
u2016-11-29-41	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Before discussing matters not covered in my speech, allow me to respond to a thought from Member László Varga. I believe, Congressman, that it is somewhat irresponsible to manifest ourselves in professional matters in a way that does not correspond to the profession. I am thinking of confronting education and education. The two do not exist against each other, but together, what is more, education is included in the concept of education. I suggest you study the work of Ernő Fináczy, if you're interested in the subject. If I may, I would just like to touch on a few short topics, because I did not have time to discuss this earlier. First of all, I mentioned the unblessed situation of church schools before 2010. We are pleased that this situation has been resolved, and church schools flourish in a diverse school system. Therefore, I must reject the statement made by István Hiller and referred to the dark Middle Ages when he spoke about the support of church schools. Please do not forget that there are schools in Hungary today, primarily thanks to the Catholic Church, the Benedictine monks, who founded the school over a thousand years ago, and then during the Reformation period the Reformed schools saved knowledge, libraries and carried on culture among the youth. So they deserve to be in a colorful school system. So now they're in place, and we should all be happy for them. It would be good for those who are not connected to any church to break up with the mentality of communist times that what is related to the church is wrong to be persecuted. We live in a free world, a democracy, and it would be good to put an end to this thinking. The second subject, which I did not mention, but which has brought about a substantial change in the new public education system, is the public reservation of schools, which the opposition school politicians prefer as nationalisation, even though it is not possible to protest enough against nationalisation in Hungary in 1948, when all the buildings, all the property, were taken away from churches, infrastructure, teachers, monastic teachers, tortured, sent away and everything in the hands of the state. That's not what happened now, because the property stayed with the municipalities. The state is responsible, and therefore, in the new system of public education, it has taken responsibility for managing, organising and overseeing the system of public education, with the aim of giving all young children, wherever they were born, access to the same education. Of course, in this new concept and in this new structure, mistakes, missteps that need to be corrected are and are likely to continue to be made, but this cannot call into question the state's responsibility to maintain and operate schools many times now. On content regulation: the new system has made a significant change by renewing the National Basic Learning Plan. I would add that the National Basic Training Plan should also be reviewed every five years under the law, and that is the case, since knowledge of science is growing, and society is increasingly demanding of institutions and schools, and it is therefore necessary to review it every five years. So what's going on is also the spirit of the law. However, the State will provide the institutions with the help of the framework curricula and other aids so that it is possible to proceed according to these curricula. It is a bad practice for Hungarian pedagogy, but perhaps there is some progress to be made here, and it is hoped that most teachers do not know the curricula, only the textbooks, which is why there is a huge misunderstanding about the role of textbooks. Although it is necessary to convey to the school what is required by the National Basics Plan, it is necessary to know that the textbook is only a means of doing so. This is the purpose of the professional autonomy of schools to practice this activity well, which is my next topic. As opposed to the statements that we often hear that the autonomy of schools has been reduced or lost, the opposite is true. Please, before 2010, the school's most important pedagogical documents - such as the pedagogical program, the organizational and operational rules, the policy - have always been approved by the school's maintainer, especially by the municipality, a body that generally did not have enough pedagogical knowledge. Please read the Public Education Act No. 11: the approval of these documents is the sole responsibility of the educational body. Therefore, the autonomy of schools would not have decreased but, on the contrary, increased. Clearly, the fact that the National Basic Training Plan is mandatory for all, in an education system that is responsible for the state, it goes without saying that it is natural that what everyone learns and teaches everywhere must also be taught here. Well, in summing up the perspectives, the priorities that Secretary Palkovic mentioned at the end of his speech, I can only support on behalf of the Christian Democratic People's Party, as he mentioned the following three areas: strengthening teacher training and teacher further training, restoring content regulation and infrastructure improvements. These are the three areas where the school will be more effective. Finally, we can all welcome today's TIMSS results, both in terms of mathematics and science, the ten-year-old children, or fourth-year-olds, who have already been affected by the new public education system, have achieved far above the European average, despite the fact that parents' affinity and motivation for natural sciences in Hungary are significantly lower than the European average. This also proves that our school affairs are moving in the right direction, with which I wish further success and strength to the leaders of education. [[It's a rare round of applause from the pro-government ranks.]] [[12.10]]
u2016-11-29-42	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. From the Jobbik Group, Mr Gergely Farkas is next. Here you go, Congressman.
u2016-11-29-43	Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, I would first like to respond to my colleague, Pósan, who is unfortunately not in the Chamber. I'd like to tell him that there's a saying that someone who's living is judging. He assumed that we had initiated this debate only because of political usefulness, didn't he? This shows how this works at Fidesz: you are only on topics and initiate things that you can hope for political benefit from. In contrast, we would like to speak frankly about the problems relating to education, trusting that this debate day will achieve its goal and that it will find open ears on your part. This may be a little naive of me to say... - I am sorry that Secretary of State Palkovics is not here, for his part I have so far found that he will at least consider our proposals in substance. I'm sorry he's not here right now. So what really motivates us is to talk about these problems, because there are problems, there are new problems, things that arise because of your changes. And there are also problems that have existed at systemic level for years, we have been saying them regularly, trying to draw the government's attention to them, but no progress has been made. I'd like to bring up some of these now. One of my first professional proposals would be that, in all matters relating to education, we feel that students, who are perhaps the most important participants in this topic, are very little involved in decision-making. We know very well that every three years a national student parlament is convened, for example, the last time there was one in 2014, a 42-point package of proposals was adopted. I took a look at this package of proposals directly before the debate, how many of these 42 points have you finally adopted, how many changes have been made, and in a small number of cases, any progress has been made, to say the students' opinions have been ignored in most of the demands. And this is a huge problem, because you need this national student parliament in its present form so that you can show it every three years, show a little that there is such a body, that students can argue over a weekend, vote in favour of a package of recommendations, and then you flaunt it, that you have really sought the opinion of the students. However, there is no meaningful consequence of this; the problems that the students have formulated there and recorded in this manifesto have not made any progress. This is a huge problem. And it is also a huge problem that every three years this body is convened and in the period between the two, in the three-year period, there is no similar representative organisation for students involved in public education that could gather students' comments and convey them to the government, or that, on the part of the government, they would be a negotiating partner, so that if there were any changes to them, they could ask students for their opinion. Jobbik would therefore like to reform the whole system of student self-government and national student parliament from the very beginning, and we would like to make it possible for young people to have a say in the issues that affect them on a daily basis. Because the students have an opinion, it turned out a few weeks ago, when a young man in Kaposvár, Bradánovics Bendegus, wanted to say his criticism of the government, and then he was drowned. I think that this is thoughtful, on the one hand, and on the other, shows that students do have opinions, that students are critical in many cases, and that instead of listening to these opinions, you will silence these young people. This is, then, an education for democracy. [[Intercoms from Jobbik's ranks: Shame!]] I therefore believe that, in this respect, it is important to make very important progress from the point of view of the students' interest in hearing their opinions, which is why I ask you once again - as I have already done on many occasions - to accept Jobbik's proposals, which are also similar to the proposals put forward by the National Youth Council, to achieve a system-wide reform in the field of the national student parliament and in the area of strengthening student self-governments, once again, so that the opinion of young people can better influence the issues that concern them. Another important issue, which is also a recurring problem, and I have also been watching Mr Secretary of State and the members of the Government to see if it is raised, but unfortunately this has not happened, is the question of language learning. In the field of language learning, a number of data support the big problems in Hungary, the backwards of young people in Hungary. Only one or two extracted statistics: while in Luxembourg, in the upper secondary school, each of the children learns two or more languages, 80 percent of the children in Hungary can speak only one language other than their mother tongue. According to the 2013 survey, 100 percent in Austria, 84 percent in Slovakia, and only 59 percent in Hungary learn some foreign language up to the age of 11-12. It is well known that in Hungary, for example, foreign language learning is not mandatory in the lower school. It is also a problem that you expect the public education system to prepare students for the language exam, but allow me to translate a quote from Dr. Judit Bertanyi from the State Secretary for Public Education to you: I deeply agree with your words, my fellow Member, and I am sorry that you cannot represent this position in the governing party, and you cannot carry out the activities that the government should be able to conclude. Because there is a need for a language reform in Hungary, and it is not a problem with its quantity, the number of language lessons, it is a good thing, from us in Denmark and Sweden there are several language lessons for a student, but there is a problem with the quality of language education, because our language education is not enough speech-centred, that language education is not in small enough groups. So here we really need a reform. My time frame was limited to explaining these two subjects. I trust that the Government will listen to Jobbik's opinion, Jobbik's proposals, and that progress will be made both in the interests of student representation, and will finally see that a reform is needed in the field of language learning, so that we can catch up with the EU average in this area, because we are very behind. I trust that these proposals will be heard. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2016-11-29-44	Thank you very much, Congressman. From the Fidesz Group, Mr Simon Róbert Balázs is next. Here you go, Congressman.
u2016-11-29-45	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, As my fellow Member, László Kucsák has already mentioned in his speech, various representatives are talking to the specific areas of expertise; for my part, I would like to comment on vocational training, specifically on the links between the Hungarian economy, the labour market and public education, including vocational training, especially dual training. I hold in my hands the employment data of Győr-Moson-Sopron county, the data of October 2016 on the labour market picture. If you look at these, you can see that the employment rate in Győr-Moson-Sopron County is 69.4 percent in the third quarter of 2016. That's 212,000 people. This 69.4 percent, by the way, is 3 percent higher than the national average. And if you look at the proportion of registered job seekers in Győr-Moson-Sopron County, you can see that this was 1.6 percent in October, otherwise 0.4 percent lower than the data of the previous year; or if you look at the area of Győr and Győr, so it was 2 percent in October, otherwise 2.8% a year earlier. I told you this data because professionals say that if the unemployment rate in the labour market is less than 3 percent, in practice, it can be said that it means almost total employment. We can say that the Hungarian economy is on a promising path, but there are new challenges to be faced. One is the catch-up of wages, which has been reported in recent years as a result of a reduction in public burdens; the other is clearly the transformation of education and training. [[12.20]] This is necessary in order to ensure that professionals, professionals with appropriate skills, can be provided on a continuous basis. Let us look at the measures taken on the basis of the concept of vocational training adopted in 2011 after the adoption of the new vocational training law. I would like to highlight four of these: (1) the system of examination has been changed, a comprehensive complex examination has been introduced; (2) the so-called dual training has been extended; (3) the reform of vocational training has been implemented; (4) the reform of vocational training has been completed. In addition to obtaining the first State-supported qualification in September 2015, the acquisition of the second qualification became free of charge. By the way, more than 10,000 people have already made use of this opportunity in relation to Hungary. If you look at the options a student can choose from for further education after completing primary school, you can see the following. One option is high school. Now that I am talking about vocational training, I will not go into detail. From September 2016, where 4+1 years of training and vocational education also provide qualifications, the student can become a qualified workforce after finishing high school. The second option is the secondary vocational school, which has become 3+2 years old, where three years of vocational training is followed by two years of further education to obtain a degree. In this type of school, the student will decide whether to join the world of work after the end of the 11th grade, or to do so after the 13th grade, with a degree and a qualification. But let's not forget the vocational schools. This type of school prepares children with special educational needs for vocational examinations by sub-training or obtaining professional qualifications. I would also like to say a few thoughts on the importance of the transformation of secondary vocational training. In the past, only a fifth of the middle-grade students took the profession, and the others only graduated. This had to be changed, this was decided by the government and the State Secretariat, which is why the vocational training and education system has been adapted, and in the new system, more than half of the middle-grade students will have a profession, not just a graduation. Returning to my original thoughts, the question arises as to why this is necessary. Because, in addition to other needs, the secondary school system can serve the economy compared to the previous period. So from September 2016, the VET system has been transformed so that much more people can leave the school with the profession in their hands. If this system starts, it could be read in an earlier statement, then we can make 60-65 percent of middle-grade students come out of school with a profession in their hands, and this will obviously happen within a few years. During the previous period before the conversion, 52 thousand students studied dual training nationally, and the aim is, of course, to increase this number significantly in a few years, to 70-80 thousand students with apprenticeships. I would like to add a few more points that the starting point for dual training is Germany and Austria, but more than ten years ago, the municipality of Győr has already started this process, so the fact that, as is the meaning of the study contract or the scholarship, Győr is not an unknown concept, since because of its economic power, the companies operating there - they may be multinationals or even Hungarian-owned small and medium-sized enterprises - simply requested or enforced this situation. In conclusion, I think that it was a wise and courageous decision to transform the vocational training system, which serves not only the Hungarian economy but also, of course, the individual's well-being. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of Fidesz.]]
u2016-11-29-46	Thank you very much, Congressman. Mr Sallai R. Benedek is coming from the LMP Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2016-11-29-47	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen of the State Secretary. I listened with interest to the debate this morning, and obviously there were many things that attracted my interest and I would like to respond to it; first of all, the remarks made by Secretary Csaba Dömötör. Every time you need a big demagogy, you send him in here. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. The opposition doubts the performance of students. That was the most obnoxious sentence of all. We are essentially questioning the government's performance. It's about whether the government is doing well in this area. The opposition did not question the performance of students, but whether the education policy system is suitable for students, the next generation, not just a chance to start life, but a happy adult at all. There were several comments that could be agreed on. I also listened to Secretary Palkovic with great interest. I express my full solidarity with Mr Secretary of State: I am always pushed down to be wary, so I am very pleased that I am not the only one in Parliament. So I sympathize with you. The thoughts that he shared with Parliament are very important, that we need to prepare students for jobs that do not yet exist. I've heard this in several places lately, it's clichédly very, very well, the problem is that the education system is exactly the opposite, because it's passing on static knowledge in a number of areas that at the moment are not suitable for what will be 20 years from now. The other, which I feel very, very much that what you are saying is in stark contrast to what we are experiencing: you said literally that not everyone needs equal support, but different. Well, that's exactly what we're asking for, the lack of it. We would like to see the practical implementation of this in education policy. The most exciting expression used by the Secretary of State, which István Ikotity pointed out in his speech how the concept of applicable knowledge would appear. This is interesting because if we are talking not only about vocational training but also about high school training, then the omega of everything is how you will manage the following. At the moment, it is a factual question that when an average engineering student arrives at the university, it can simply be established that he is sent from high school with an inadequate level of knowledge. Graduation requirements are not sufficient to meet the requirements of a number of natural sciences that will be called upon at the university for a BSc course. This is important - I obviously don't want to go into higher education now, I hope that there will be another debate someday when we can talk about it - because the question of higher education is that a multitude of catching up objects should be used in the first year, essentially due to the lack of this education system. From now on, the discussion becomes exciting, because if we want to talk about what will lead to happy adults in Hungarian society, who will be able to be good citizens in the democratic arrangements of Hungary and not just a balanced life, there are a number of questions, but certainly not the ones that my fellow Member Kucsák said. In his speech, I very much liked the fact that he brought up the debt of the municipalities, the debt at the state level. It is very, very difficult to interpret this at the level of public education, partly because we should not forget that in most cases local governments with Fidesz management have the largest amounts. The fact that they made up for the unsubstantiated spending of money campaigning for you Fidesz mayors can be mentioned on a public education debate day, but it's not really relevant. However, it was at least as interesting when, as a politician, my fellow Member Pósán drew attention to the fact that it is always necessary to point back at the governance of the MSZP, because the education system works for a 12-year period - I think that's what he said. Compared to this, the 2002 campaign, the election campaign of Péter Medgyessy, is quoted, which goes beyond this period. It is almost a pathetic category when the argument goes back to 2002, why our education is wrong, and what Péter Medgyessy promised. Nevertheless, what we have learned from the speeches is very, very important - which is why I listened to them with interest - because in most cases, again, as on yesterday's EU debate day, they come with material, free textbooks, free meals, virtually with the funding of the education system. The main reason that this is a problem is because it seems that there are three main things that are not mentioned: teachers, children and parents. Yet, the way parents and children live the education system today can fundamentally influence how we apply our indicators. If the indicators of how much money we used to spend on free meals or free textbooks, I do not dispute that they can produce positive results in this. But my question is, when you look at the indicators, how happy parents are with the education system, how tired children are, how children are used by everyday education. I have children from first grade to third grade, and as a parent, as a father of four, I obviously have a strict view of this system, whether it's good for the kids to keep trying to get the knowledge that any of us in adult life can get from their smartphones for eight to ten hours a day in two seconds. [[12.30]] At the same time, we do not teach him to learn, to get new information, to think, and we do not seek to acquire general education - because of lack of resources - for example, from funded theatre visits to many things, such as laboratory supplies of specialised objects, for which there is not enough resources, which, in turn, cannot basically be integrated into the system. Allow me to bring you an interesting study - and you will forgive me for not being an educational politician, and I will therefore read with interest the international experience - when parents are asked in a research - it is about the English thing - what are the most important things they consider to be indicators of a good education, 14 points that they summarize. The question of how today's public education system can relate to this is that I am obviously making these 14 points because I can agree with them on my part. How can you adapt to this? He says that among the things he teaches in school, my child finds the things he likes, not everything is mandatory, because we humans can co-operate with each other, our knowledge, our abilities complement each other. Pista learns what Pista loves, Michael learns what Michael loves. I'm sorry about the Hungarian names, but obviously that's how the translation was more practical. Basically, it refers to an adaptive, adaptive education system that takes better account of it. This demand appears in Mr Palkovics's introductory exposé, the question is why, in practice, as a parent, we do not see this as being applied in the education system. The school should provide other opportunities for action other than subjects. These should be optional, and everyone will find the right opportunities. It's really interesting how important this is in education. I'm from Tourkeve, he gave me two Olympians from wrestling. About what? Because there's a good instructor for that, he's got a good coach. But we don't know how many world-class golfers or world-class water polo players could have gotten out if they had an educational opportunity. Basically, the education system does not try to recognize what children are best at, but everyone adapts. We've had generations of wrestling, because it's the only thing that's been on the ground, and maybe a world-class cellist could've been out if there'd been an education. Now, by the way, in Tourkeve, there's a retired policeman who's got a cell phone for me - just so I can boast of my small settlement. Applying this and putting it into an adaptive system would be a rather important issue to make the best of children. Children should be informed of the choices they have after leaving the school, of the professions, of the occupations they have. Obviously, this is a very, very important issue of the career choice system, which I feel may be even harder than it was before, although it would be very, very clear that not only the influence of parents and the influence of teachers, but also the individual interior of children can be the best at making such decisions. Teaching must be something that children can really learn from; do not be boring, monotonous repetition, do not have senseless mass of teaching material, which they cannot even learn with help. Basically, the extent to which the practice of static biflage appears, I see this in practice now that unfortunately the level of this is as if it has been strengthened by more than one. Forgive me, Secretary of State, I obviously do not feel the positives to stress it, so I would like to point out the ones in which I see a deficiency. I mean, in some ways, it would be a lie to deny that there are results. There should be no pursuit at school; this is certainly contrary to the current experience. You have to know that less is sometimes more. Have time to practice things well, not become boring repetitions, not quantity, but quality. And at this age, I feel that it is even more important, and if we really thought, as Mr Secretary of State said, that we would try to produce suitable, happy adults in the labour market on the labour market 20 years later, then it would be even less justified to try to record and deliver the material of today's science as much as possible and to develop this kind of material into a learning ability capable of thinking. I mean, let's face it or admit that when you get out of practice, even from behind the benches of the university departments, there's hardly a job where you can use the same knowledge. A new job is always a study, always a new skill. Therefore, the most important thing is that children or young adults go to the labour market with this ability to always acquire new skills, always have the ability. You can know when Magna Carta was, you can learn a lot of things that can be memorized, but at the same time, how to write a decent resume, so that they have a chance to get a personal interview at work, and how to get daily knowledge from colleagues at work, how to learn the practice they need to do everyday work, that should be learned from childhood. The school should provide appropriate information on the development and changes of children. And in the spirit above, all of this must be done in such a way that parents should not be called upon by urgency and stigmatisation, but that parents should be considered their main partner. Clearly, the practical implementation of this will depend on how motivated our teachers will be, how dedicated they will be. And I agree with Mr Secretary of State that he had such an idea that the most important thing for good education really was a good educator. But in addition to this respect, it is obvious that higher education is needed that prepares this and requires a community that motivates all of this. If you look now, Mr. State Secretary, just the conflicts that have developed in, say, different schools in the last year and a half, these conflicts are fundamentally not community-building for the educators' choir, and they are not motivated enough to be able to take into account children's nervous system and their family relationships in everyday education. In fact, I agree that this is the priority objective. The school environment should be something that allows the child to develop. Let's make room for more than normal activities. Let there be libraries with good books, sports goods in and out, art hall, that is exactly what Congressman Kucsák said, that obviously we need material assets for good education, and we need the infrastructure. But basically the question is how evenly this is distributed in the country and whether it is evenly available everywhere - from North Hungary to South Transdanubia. Or, indeed, you cannot overcome the disadvantage of the child ever in his life that the II. district or XII. He went to district school or, say, started his education in a village in Borsod north of Miskolc. Once this is balanced and infrastructure supplies are even, we can talk about these issues in a number of areas, which my fellow Member mentioned. The school monitors the child's life, and if the child experiences a problem of welfare outside the school, it actively helps him. This is very important, and obviously I do not want to go over social policy issues, because many of the cases that have also been known from the past period, where the feedback system has not worked well in child protection, and it is certainly possible to increase its role in this school. The school should place great emphasis on being a place where everyone will be supported to have a neutral forum if they commit injustice to someone. In Western European examples, I very much like the institution of these school ombudsmans who try to stand neutrally for one student, one student. Unwittingly, this is certainly not the Fidesz's fault directly, that injustices are also happening in children's communities, which are important in order for it to happen at school, because this can be the basis for education for empathy. I was with kids this weekend for an invitation to an adventure park - so many webs, you can climb up and all that - and I saw a lot of kids going up a little, and the rest of them rolling down, running up because somehow they don't have the empathy from the beginning to help the weaker one to help the smaller one. And the transfer of this approach, his socialization, can be an important location of the school with a proper background. The school makes public its rules on learning and the internal equipment of the school, helping parents to understand them. In many cases, it is really not possible to understand why what is happening, and there is obviously good school autonomy in this, but at the same time ensuring the possibility of understanding is particularly important. The school should always answer the questions, concerns and complaints it receives. The school should be a well-steered and run institution. Obviously, the KLIK system has made this very, very, very difficult, but basically there is the possibility. As long as there is a good educator, and there is government intent, and if we add resources, this system can be improved, and it can be significantly better than what we see at the moment. I have many, many more thoughts, which I do not know if I will have time to share with you, but basically as a father of four children, as a parent who goes to schools every day, I can agree with international research that formulates such wordings, and I think that a good government intention in Hungary could help to achieve this. I ask your support for this. Thank you for the floor, Mr President. [[István Ikotity applauds.]]
u2016-11-29-48	Thank you very much, Congressman. Ladies and gentlemen, It is now possible to make two-minute speeches. First of the Fidesz Group, I give the floor to Mr László Kucsák. Here you go, Congressman. [[12.40]]
u2016-11-29-49	Mr President, Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, Allow me to briefly reflect on some of the thoughts that have been expressed. For the first time, I would like to return and refer back to the sentences of my fellow Member Gergely Farkas. If I recall correctly, in connection with László Pósán's speech, you threw back the hot potatoes, Congressman, and you may have connected the Fidesz and the Fidesz to political gain. [[Árpád Velez: But it's not, it's a lie!]] I wouldn't share that with myself. That is why I thought to mention it, since the Member had already spoken in his speech about this student self-government forum in Kaposvár, where, as I said, I tried to write this down, the young man was silenced. I think you would have been lucky to have been more detailed in what we could have learned from the press and the news about this case. It was indeed a manifestation, but then it was given a word, and he himself corrected the text he had written, which he could then explain to the others. [[Dr. István Józsa turns to the presidential pulpit to intervene.]] That's the version I know. But that is not the most important thing, but that, if the Member has already said the political gain, is it fortunate, dear Gergely Farkas, that Dóra Dúró will hold a press conference with a young man who is probably under 18 years of age, and Dóra Farkas, a politician of Jobbik [[Defiance from the Jobbik benches.]] She's waving it in here and hanging it up, and by the way, Dora Doro Doro, I'm sorry. Dóra Dúró hangs the opportunity here that Jobbik is struggling to have the right to vote for young people from the age of 16. I'd put that in the political profit category, or at least a specific better product connection. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2016-11-29-50	Thank you very much, Congressman. Mr István Ikotity is coming from the LMP Group.
u2016-11-29-51	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, It was a high ball for the socialists that they hadn't responded to yet. I'll do it for them. In one of the speeches, Prime Minister Medgyessy promised that the textbook would be free. See a miracle. Well, the textbook's free, isn't it? [[Defiance.]] Why do I say that? I'm saying this because you're talking over time distances that go on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on. I am now turning to Mr. László Palkovics after this introduction. We're talking about the National Basics. For the first time, when it appeared that there was going to be a new basic curriculum, it was said that 2018. It's already a time, especially when it's autumn, which is supposed to extend beyond your current cycle. If this national master plan is wrong, it is worth working with great forces on it; with such great forces that it is not necessary to look up the names of experts from a small display of smartphones, who are actually doing it, but perhaps to have a daily relationship with them. [[Noise from the pro-government benches.]] That's one of the things that just went through 2019. It's embarrassing, isn't it, fellow Members? [[Dr. Winner Vinnai: Not us! For you! Dr. László Pósán: Amusing, not embarrassing!]] It is even more embarrassing that I went back now because I was convinced that the concept of the National Basics Plan was promised by you by the end of November 2016. Now it's the end of November 2016. In the introduction, it was said that the date for the presentation of the concept will be the end of December 2016. How is that, Mr. Secretary? Now it is the end of November and this concept is not yet visible. Or is it just you? What we see is that you are obviously not satisfied, too, there has been a lot of criticism of this basic curriculum for you, but it is not yet apparent that this new concept has been completed by the deadline. [[Sallai R. Benedek applauds.]]
u2016-11-29-52	Thank you very much, Congressman. I would like to inform Congressman Józsa that there is humidification in the room and not dust. But they've stopped, Congressman. I'm sure your senses show otherwise, but I can only clarify the technical communication for you. [[Dr. István Józsa: Thank you, Mr President.]] From the KDNP Group, Mrs Hoffmann Rózsa will take a two-minute speech.
u2016-11-29-53	Thank you very much. I would first of all like to respond to Mr Sallai R. Benedek's comment. Congressman, you said you were listening very carefully to the debate and you didn't say anything about educators. He came in late because the debate was at 9:00, and there was hardly any congressman who didn't say anything about teachers or teachers. Therefore, I would like to continue on this subject, not about rating and not about raising wages, but it is worth saying once again that teachers have received a wage increase of such a level of appreciation that it was not comparable to. Let me just give you one example: for example, a teacher with 18-20 years of experience received 172 thousand gross before 2013, which will be 304 thousand forints in September the following year. That's 140 thousand forints rise, which, I think, is a nice sum. But I would rather say that the appreciation of teachers, which is there for all aspects of education, is also reflected in the fact that they are also carrying out the tasks that have recently emerged in the system of public education, such as teaching supervision or qualification. Let us not forget that not only do teachers who leave the office from some ivory tower control the work of teachers, but they themselves, who go back to their own school the next day, teach their own classes and know from practice what they control. They also receive special training for this and keep an eye on how their work is done. This has never been in the system of public education. They also carry out the certification system. In this, too, their appreciation is understandable. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2016-11-29-54	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Mr István Hiller, Vice-President of the Parliament, is coming from the MSZP Group. Here you go, Mr. Vice President.
u2016-11-29-55	Mr President, I would like to respond to an earlier speech, Mrs Hoffmann's opinion, not on this one, but on a round earlier. I speak in the hope that there is a debate that we can close, and that others remain. Dear Secretary of State, don't worry about me at church schools. I value church schools and respect their activities. Some church schools are of high quality, some of which are less. Some public schools are of high quality and some are less. There are some foundation schools that are of high quality, some that aren't. Although you do a lot to make sure there's no foundation school at all. Protecting church schools against an attack that doesn't exist is useless. However, I am and will argue for centuries of separation between the Church and the State. By the way, I do not know a European Christian Democrat who would not stand by the separation of state and church. It is worth having this debate because I see that you are about to break this 120-year pact. If you don't, prove it. And I certainly do not need to mention that 120 years ago, and there was no need to bring up communist thoughts about this. I deeply understand that Mrs Secretary of State has always been a Christian Democrat in a huddle, but it doesn't have to be this period that comes to mind. When we don't mention it, it doesn't have to come to mind. In addition to church schools, I argued for separation of church and state. I therefore propose that we hold this debate in this area, we are happy to participate in it, we are fighting the debate, but we do not need to go to any other coasts. Thank you very much.
u2016-11-29-56	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Mr Dóra Dúró, President of the Cultural Committee, asked for a point of order. Here you go.
u2016-11-29-57	Thank you, Mr. President. I would like to address you personally, because Congressman Kucsák has addressed me in this capacity. I would like to point out to the Member that the request came to me from the student in the specific case to which he referred. And by the way, not just to me, but to several press agencies, and that's why the case itself started. In relation to his speech, it must be said that it did not contain any illegal or defamatory sentence in the original version. Nevertheless, they were not allowed to tell him at the student parlament meeting. He was just the sufferer of the violation, as he was restricted in his fundamental rights, his freedom of expression. Thank you for the opportunity, Mr. President. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2016-11-29-58	Thank you very much, Congresswoman, Madam President. On behalf of the Government, Mr László Palkovics, State Secretary, asked for the floor. [[12.50]]
u2016-11-29-59	Mr President, I wanted to reply to Congressman Sallai R. Benedek, but it seems that he has left the room - since we have already set up a platform for rapid speech - but I would rather start with Mr Ikotity after he has asked a question. On the one hand, you complain in your various comments about why such rapid changes in education are taking place, and on the other hand you are asking that if there is, say, a month delay, for example, in the design of the concept, or if the experts say that a new national basic curriculum is not realistic in September 2018, which we have a legal obligation to review until 2019, then let's speed this up and hurry - I really don't get it. So I think that these are typical cases where we have a functioning system, in this working system we have started to make amendments that deal with some of the cases, but let us leave the time that is needed for the others. Names from smartphones: if I were doing this by the way, you would say that this is an intervention in the type of autonomy that is not made by professionals, but by the Secretary of State for Education, the National Basics. Believe me, I know pretty much who's involved, I know exactly the structure and a lot of things. This was the answer to Congressman Hiller to highlight the few hundred people who are involved in this. So I think there's no reason to worry. But speaking of smartphones, although Congressman Sallai is not here, I find it very dangerous to replace the school with a smartphone, because everything about the smartphone is readable and there is no need to learn. I think there are serious misconceptions here. Just one example - I went to the University of Technology - is that we asked our professor of material structure to tell us why we need to learn the percentage of blenders in different materials. He said that we could actually learn the phone book in Budapest, because we will really forget it, but in doing so, we are getting a ability that can really be done in the acquisition of the lexical knowledge material, so it is very important to understand why cases need to be learned and why they need to be made a skill and skill in some way later on - this will be the competence. We agree, of course, that the quantity of curriculum is probably not the quantity that is necessarily best, probably should be deeper and teach less things, but this will be the answer of the National Basic Study Plan. And by the way, I think we all agree on that. Here I just want to say that mobile phones don't teach anyone, even though we think that teaching at school may be possible, teachers teach at school, but otherwise it has different tools, it can also be a mobile phone and a computer, and a lot of things, but teachers teach at school, and that's fine. Thank you. [[Applause in the ranks of Fidesz.]]
u2016-11-29-60	Thank you very much. I will then signal once again to the technical staff that the time frame for the use of Secretary of State Palkovics will be recorded. The next round will be ordinary speeches. From the Fidesz Group, Mrs Czunyiné, Congresswoman Judit Bertalan, applied for a speech. Here you go, Congresswoman, you have the floor.
u2016-11-29-61	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Dear fellow Members, In the comments that have been made so far in the debate, I have certainly considered one thing in common and I would like to add this, and this is the task of applying the school to competitive knowledge and applicable knowledge for the future. However, before I add a few points, allow me to respond to some of the comments made. The answer, my dear fellow Member, to the acquisition of competences and knowledge related to foreign languages, as Mr Palkovics said, in the revision of the National Basics Plan and on the Round Table of Public Education, is also on the agenda - I think that this is also an important step forward. The other one, narrowly or completely, is not on the subject, but if I can take the public of the Parliament, then allow me to congratulate from this place and from here and to give my compliments to the handful of young teams, elementary school students, high school students and university students who finished in the world robotic programming competition in New Delhi last weekend in India in the first 16th grade, the Hungarian high school and university team graduated from the first 16th place in the programming competition, the high school team, namely the WRO team of the Vértesszőlős Elementary School in Vérteszőlős And in the first 50, he graduated from the middle field. I think that good performance and excellent added educational value deserve and expects us to thank you for your work in this place and congratulate you on the results achieved. This would also lead to the kind of knowledge and the kind of vision that, I think, has been given sufficient emphasis and sufficient attention in the area of education over the past period. It has been said here that our children in the future, in the next 10-15 years, will need different competences and knowledge from what today's labour market demands, or even what the current vocational training or school system requires in the area of competences related to each profession, due to a systemic change in jobs and the world of work. So I think that it is not wise to take this into account or to go further than that, so it is important that the National Basic Study Plan considers the sufficient depth of that balance-based, otherwise lexical knowledge in addition to the well-adaptable competences when reviewing and amending the NAT. It is also important to know that the changes around us determine some things. One of these is the digital competences or digital knowledge, digital literacy to learn in schools. This is important, because if we really want the knowledge that our children get at school, even with the way of bob-slapping, and I am very pleased that the Secretary of State has said that it is indeed a tool for bob-slapping and not a goal in school education, it is therefore important that this can be changed and applied in the right jobs in the right situations. And this cannot be ignored, but must be preceded by this process. They know for sure, because there have been several reactions, but in the summer, Hungary's Government adopted the Digital Education Strategy, in which it adopted tasks, action plans and a broken plan for action to this end, which is necessary to ensure that the school framework, which was aimed at... - the 2011 National Basic School Plan and national public education, as well as the competitive education set out in public education and the improvement of the school system. In order to achieve this, this is also a necessary step, it is also an important step if we are to offer our children, who have certain knowledge in the future, the opportunity to remain in the labour market... Among opposition speakers, we have heard the definition of adult happiness and prosperity, it is very right, and it also contributes to the knowledge that we acquire at school, to be truly applicable and truly opportunityful. Let us look at the basics and concepts of the digital education strategy. I do not want to give a long introduction, but it is important that the environment in which the digital education strategy is completed is a digital education strategy with a broadband internet programme and infrastructure development involving public education, infrastructure development in the school system, but it is perhaps more important that a content strategy, which supports the methodology of education, quasi paradigm change or culture change, is possible, which is precisely the knowledge that can be acquired... - and I do not want to waste time, but there is obviously a contradiction. Let us say every day that the lexical knowledge that can be acquired is that which reaches or reaches the child through the school, it multiplies in today's world, but not every 5-15 years, but more often, it is faster than this, and the access to information on the Internet and in digital space is much easier to get to the child. Therefore, there are conditions that the government, the legislator, must not ignore, so in addition to the broadband internet programme, digital exports and market strategies, it is important to have an environment that, as a digital child protection strategy, protects our children from the dangers of this space, and in this context it is possible to define the content of the education that we can provide for the child to develop, strengthen digital competences and access to the jobs that we may not even know today. Many jobs are defined in Western European research, whose names we do not even know today, because as technology changes and develops, a situation can arise that today's vocational training, education today, must prepare you for professions that do not yet exist. Therefore, it is an extremely important and strategically important step and issue that the type of digital implementation and transformation that our children will use from their knowledge at school should be secure and at a level with which our children feel safe. [[13.00]] This strategy had a large preparatory work based on an analysis of the situation. So we can see precisely, we know that the infrastructure environment in schools is, to what extent, in what way it is suitable for the use of digital pedagogical methods. I would not bring the results of these surveys here, but I would recommend that the digital education strategy available on the government's website be made public. However, there is one important thing, and we also need to see that it is not just infrastructure and not just procurement of assets that must be a digital education programme or a digital education strategy; it is much more important to have its contents, because if we look at the accelerated change in the IT sector, then practically, if we start a procurement today, it will appear as an outdated or no longer useful category within a few years, then we will live in the debate of the present that it can no longer be used, it must be replaced, so in the world of digitalisation another approach of sustainability, not only budgetary but also in a different way, has to be developed in the digital education strategy. So the goal here is to set a minimum standardized requirement for schools, which we will ensure that even once the child is able to apply his own device compatible with the school systems. A major point has been missed between the two extremes, but the digital education strategy also responds to this, and, obviously, in the context of the related measures, this must be broken down into a given school, as my fellow Members have said in several places. In each school, the same conditions should be created for children to have the same opportunity and equal access to knowledge. The digital education strategy also pays particular attention to this. About the infrastructure development that's in the digital education strategy, maybe that's it. The other, larger and very important part is obviously the requirement that teachers' knowledge of digital pedagogical methodology, which does not involve the use of tools in the school classroom, is not only about the activation of IT tools, the exchange of tools, the interconnection of tools, but also about a complex and new methodological knowledge that needs to be passed on to some of the teachers, but also about basic access to it in the other part and higher education. By the way, as planned for this round, there will soon be teachers' further trainings starting from next academic year, where teachers and educators will be able to adapt to their own majors the possibility that the digital pedagogical methodology, which provides many other options behind the use of the tools, will support their work, help them, and will be able to enhance the educational material that can be obtained as quickly, efficiently and effectively as possible, in order to enhance children's success, and to enhance their teaching success, to be present in the daily pedagogical, daily teaching and school work. It's very important. We'll keep an eye on the teachers. This part is also about getting training free of charge in a way that will be suitable for teaching them and making a meaningful contribution to effectiveness in their work. In teacher further education and pedagogical basic training, the possibility of a digital methodology is necessary to ensure that the long-term frameworks that are for the future and assume and expect access to a competitive knowledge are provided to teachers with this kind of knowledge. And then there's the third round, which is obviously, in addition to the development of tools and the training of teachers, the content. In terms of content, Hungarian schools and Hungarian practice are already multi-directional, since, despite the lack of training or educational material to support digital methodological or digital education, teachers use it in many places, but in recent years programmes have been launched to enhance digital literacy, digital competences, which are about whether I look at children's talent in catching up or disadvantaged areas - and my fellow Member - because he has such a programme in his constituency - and even add added value in catching up; so there are more schools already in place using Digi-KIP or digital methodologies. The Hypersuli programme is under way, which is also implemented in cooperation in several schools in terms of Internet security and content security. There were initiatives, for the first time in last year, or apologies, this spring was the first time in the digital week, where we tried to sensitize teachers on the possibility of adding more color to their classes, enriching them and thus increasing their effectiveness in the course of the course or in the processing of a subject using digital pedagogical methods. During the first digital week, 786 schools were completed with nearly two thousand digital projects, 80 thousand students and 5367 teachers from 4 to 8 April 2016. It will also be in the next spring, and if the school year is well watched, they will have the opportunity not only to apply for the digital theme week, but also to apply for more sustainability and future topics as project weeks.This is also very important. It is also important that projects have been launched in the first place to prepare scientific competences or technical careers, so LEGO mats or pilot projects for programming are run in 50 schools. In addition, let me note here in parentheses that Hungary and LEGO Education have concluded a cooperation agreement with a view to programming, coding and strengthening technical science objects in the last week. I could also describe the countless cooperations on which the content elements of the digital education strategy have been launched, are under way, and the digital education strategy sets out decisive measures and plans for this. Let me say one thing in closing: I have a number of opposition fellow Members here who have thought beyond the cycle of education governance. It is very right that in terms of education, we can only think beyond a cycle, because it would be good if our children's affairs - I too am a mother with small children - were to go beyond the individual political gains that have arisen here in the last few hours, in the case of their common future, in the case of our common future. Thank you very much for your attention, and I would like to ask you that in the work that the Secretary of State, colleagues and educators are doing in order to enable more and more successful and talented children to get out of the Hungarian school than those who had the opportunity to congratulate me at the beginning of the speech, we must at least agree that we have one intention and one aim to give Hungarian children a secure and competitive knowledge. We can argue in the means, but not in the target. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-11-29-62	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. From the group of the MSZP, Mr Sándor Szabó is coming to a proper speech. Here you go, Congressman.
u2016-11-29-63	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Competitive knowledge for children, just to hold on to the last sentence of Czunyiné - it will be difficult to acquire competitive knowledge in addition to the equatorial books, but we have seen how the government thinks, not only in the field of education, but also in many areas. I very much agree with my fellow Member Hiller, when we can look back a little to the Middle Ages, because many decisions are being made in Hungary today on the basis of power, which are indeed quoting the Middle Ages. I think that this is not going in the right direction in Hungary today. But I don't want to start public education from this far away. I'd just go back to 2013. 1 January 2013 was an era change, I think, in the field of Hungarian public education. It was then that the Klebelsberg Institutional Center was established, which meant that all the primary schools, vocational schools and vocational schools in the country were sent to a large giga centre, with the exception of church and private institutions. In fact, this change of maintenance meant in practice that the assets, real estate, buildings and teaching equipment remained in the hands of the municipalities, but all other free use was transferred to KLIK, so KLIK also took over the rights of the employer, i.e. the State. [[13.10]] The operation of schools may still remain with the municipalities, of course for the municipalities that have undertaken this, but we now see and know that this can only be done until the end of 2016 because they will completely take schools away from local authorities from the beginning of 2017. At the time, the municipality of Szeged - as a representative of Szeged let me give you a little bit of examples of Szeged - of course he was very happy to run the schools from 2013 when the reservation was taken away from them, because even then, even now, and I think that we considered it very important in the future to maintain close contact with schools, children, parents, fair cooperation, and the development of children has always been the most important for us. Then, as KLIK started in 2014, after a year, it became clear that the huge large centre, the KLIK system, failed because it turned out that it was neither cheaper nor better nor more efficient than it was in the maintenance of the municipalities before, during the period when the municipalities supervised and controlled the education system, although that was exactly the promise and the reason why they took the reservation away from the municipalities was that, indeed, a much better, much more effective system would be created through nationalisation. Several times in this Parliament, I have demonstrated, told and demonstrated the fundamental shortcomings and injustices that we have experienced during the KLIK. I don't want to tell you all about it right now, but let me remind you of some of this. For five months, we have experienced renamed schools in Szeged. With retroactive effect, the school name was different for five months, or at the end of the year the schools found out what their real name was, by the way. They didn't finance countless study competitions, they couldn't go on class trips because the buses didn't arrive. A number of teachers were expelled before the end of their leadership mandate, simply because they reached retirement age. In several cases, single candidates, supported by all those entitled to an opinion, were declared ineffective, while we also experienced in Szeged that, in the case of several candidates, the Fidesz candidate somehow always won the management of the institutions, regardless of whether the other one was one or two, or when three candidates were more professionally prepared. Unprofessional procurement of assets and unprofessional procurement of assets which, in fact, have often caused life-threatening installation. And I didn't tell you then that many times the operation of schools was characterised by manual control, telephone instructions, frequent, unnecessary and extremely short data calls, and, indeed, there was no response to the questions regularly for months, and indeed the simplest repairs and maintenances were prolonged for many months, simply because the system was lack of resources and very bureaucratic. So it's no wonder that the big league center, the KLIK system, has become untenable, that the system lacked resources, and that, as it is, it has failed. The government had no choice but to pump back at least the money that had to be spent on debts, nearly 100 billion forints, and this is not nearly as much as it had previously been taken from the municipalities. And although it may seem that the financial background to the maintenance tasks has become ensured, this has not been done entirely, so centralized administration in many institutions remains very slow. For an example, this is still an example of Szeged's demand in September until today, it is 28 November, and still no response has been received. This is today's KLIK system, the education system, and I think that it can continue to deteriorate if the operating tasks are also transferred to the district centers. While the institutions do know their budget today, since the system is so bureaucratic and so slow, they simply do not have the opportunity to spend these money, because they still need the contribution of the KLIK to everything today, they can commit themselves, and, in many cases, schools do not have access to the tools that are important for the day-to-day educational work. As I said, from the beginning of next year, schools will be taken away entirely from the settlements, which I think is a completely unjustified and, in my view, a serious professional error. After all, it is clear that public engagement, especially in large school towns, as my colleague Varga said, in Miskolc, Szeged, and a number of other cities could still be called, has not worked, and I think that this system should be returned to these school towns, schools, maintenance, operation, and I also agree that where public engagement is required, intervention should be taken. Thank you very much. That's all I wanted to say for now.
u2016-11-29-64	Thank you very much, Congressman. On behalf of the Government, Mr László Palkovics, State Secretary, asked for the floor. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2016-11-29-65	Thank you very much. Mr President, Honourable Congressman, I just want to respond briefly to a few things about the CLIK, because here things have been said that are not quite so. We're always talking about one thing, which means centralization, efficiency gains. This is absolutely typical of the organization, by the way, but we are not talking about one thing, which is referred to here by the Member in his last sentence, and as if it were agreed here that this type of institution maintenance and institutional management has a very important role, which we have mentioned here on several occasions today, and that is equal access to education for everyone to get to it in the way they need. Now, that's what this organization provides. I think you mentioned the operational anomalies associated with the KLIK, that, yes, they did, and now they're gone. I am confident that the Szeged municipality will work as well as, let's say, the new district center, and, let's say, a letter may be answered more quickly. We didn't spend 100 billion forints on KLIK's debt. The government's institutional support budget increased by HUF 91.5 billion this year, of which HUF 17 billion was the debt that has been written to zero since February. There's no debt to Klebelsberg Center. And what the process is, and indeed, this funding, seems to have led to a responsible farming, I would like to reassure the Member that no resources are being taken away. One thing doesn't make sense, of course, to spend a certain source just because it's the end of the year. We will transfer this resource to the next year and spend it on the cases you have just mentioned, the conditions of education and the conditions of operation. So I would like to reassure you that the operation of the new system from 1 January is at least as good, but it will be better than before. Thank you.
u2016-11-29-66	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Then Mr. Secretary of State's time will be deducted from the Fidesz timeframe. It is now time for a proper speech from the Fidesz Group, Mr Vinnai Győző. Here you go, Congressman.
u2016-11-29-67	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, In today's debate, many have mentioned that the situation of education is decisive for a particular country, including Hungary. It is important for students to acquire useful knowledge, to develop skills and skills in the right direction in schools, and in fact to find the right answers to the challenge of the digital era. Ladies and gentlemen, I think in Mr. Secretary of State's exposé, you have very well said the order of what depends on whether or not we are talking about a good school. Allow me to devote a few thoughts to this, before I talk about the appreciation of teachers, the chance-creating education, and if I still have time, about the transformation of vocational training. Mr. Secretary of State said that we need teachers with good abilities, who move at home in their own discipline. I can confirm it, because I have seen a school not only from the outside, but also from the inside, as I have taught at a teaching college in a rural, birch-egyháza college for 30 years, where training for professionalism in teacher education was also important in addition to professional knowledge. I've been taking a lot of exam lessons, consulting with the chiefs. So, first and foremost, when parents go into schools to choose a teacher and teacher, primarily a teacher, because it is a secondary school, and they expect their children to have all the skills, knowledge transfer, education to be successful adults so that they can be more successful than he, the mother, or the father, because we live in our children and grandchildren. The other, as Mr Secretary of State has rightly said in order, is the methodology of what we teach and how we teach, because circumstances change so quickly. Let me quote to you a sentence from a world-famous athlete, I think many of you know who has formulated a symbol of pre-thinking. It's about WayneGretzky, the famous Canadian hockey player who said, "Don't skate where the puck is, go where it's coming from." I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. [[13.20]] This is also the way to think forward in education, as many have mentioned the need to develop competences and abilities that are in fact the 21st century. In the century, in a rapidly changing world, it is difficult to calculate. It's an inspiring saying, of course. Ladies and gentlemen, For us, the child is the first, as I said. Our aim is for Hungarian students to gain competitive knowledge and for teachers and teachers to be honored for their daily work. Let's see that this appreciation... - I'm sorry that no one has ever said that word before, I dare say that there is a sense of vocation in the work of teachers, a sense of vocation, and that society trusts them. [[Hungarian Zoltán applauds.]] Let me quote you a survey of the professions in which Hungarian society trusts. It wasn't that long ago, maybe a year ago. I wouldn't talk about politicians right now, because they're at the end of the line, but the teachers have 86-87 percent of society trusting them. Nine out of ten people leave their children to the teacher when they take him to school. Therefore, it is important that teachers work with education and education. This was a lively debate. One is the number of hours required between 22 and 26. According to my information, this has been the subject of a lively debate at the meetings of the Education Round Table, but the majority considered it acceptable for the current regulation to remain. But they said that the necessary status should be granted to the maintainer. This is a very important question. It must be ensured - security must be ensured - and, ladies and gentlemen, we do not hear about dismissals today, because there is no such thing, this security is there, as opposed to the period before 2010. In 2007, I don't know if you remember, on September 1st, there was an increase in the number of hours, and then an extra unpaid overtime was ordered. They were peda gussel discharges, precinct at the schools. How can we maintain equality or actually quality education in small schools if we close half a thousand schools? And in 2007-2008, 10,000 teachers were dismissed. But let's get back to today, get back to the current situation. From September 2016, two months ago, schools have a wider margin of mobility. Teachers play an important role in defining and processing the curriculum to be taught. The Secretary of State mentioned the flexible syllabus, the concept of the subject process recommendation developed by OFI, or the curriculum recommendations more precisely. This allows more time - and this is the essence of education - to practice, to have more time for individual differentiated development, as each child has a different pace of progress, and 30-40 percent of teachers can take this into account with these flexible courses. They can take into account the learning pace of their study groups and some of their students. Ladies and gentlemen, Much has changed in recent years compared to the last public education debate day, which was on 1 March, or even to the period a year ago. I think it was a good change. If I'm looking at it from the teachers' side, why was it a criticism? Qualification procedure: simplified qualification procedures. The school system has been restored, and the professional advisory and further training system is also being transformed. Let me mention two points that were also the subject of criticism. The mandatory stay is until 4 p.m.: I agree that this should fall within the competence of the head of the institution and that there should be no rigid rules. Or the other is the remuneration for quality work, which was a demand for trade unions to give the teacher-promotion system the opportunity to recognise additional performances. Yes, it is now possible to do so, and just on the last public education debate day, on 1 March, Minister Zoltán Balog announced that those who had not yet participated in the qualification procedure could automatically transfer from the teacher I. to the teacher II seven years less on 1 September 2016. This was also an facilitation, and while I am here at the rating system, let me tell you that next year 35 000 teachers will have the opportunity to advance with a rating process. Teacher I., teacher II., master teacher and research teacher degree. I don't want to give you a victory report here, but there's an increasing number of people applying for teacher training. As we have restored the undivided training training, more and more people show up, about 30 percent more, and I believe that this is not only a wage increase, but also an increase in the prestige of the field. Mr. Secretary of State also mentioned that, before the salary increase, 53 percent of the average salary was a teacher, now 82-83 percent. But to give you a specific example, because my wife has been teaching for 30 years in an elementary school in Nyíregyháza, two teaching languages, and I know exactly because she also says that she has increased by about HUF 100 thousand gross over the three years, and that she will still have a higher salary on 1 September 17, which is a significant increase, and she feels that she is getting more valued. Ladies and gentlemen, Allow me not to say any longer about the wage increase, but let me say two thoughts. One thought is that the wage increase is linked to a teacher's career model, but the wage increase is not only about teachers, in the classic sense school teachers and teachers, but also about whom else. Because we may not know this enough or the public doesn't know it: kindergarten teachers, kindergarten educators, speech therapists, development educators, kindergarten educators and adoption consultants in regional child protection services. These are teachers' graduates, and of course it was said in today's debate that the wages of women, i.e. those assisting education, increased twice in 2016 with a net allowance of HUF 35 thousand, and next year there will be a wage increase, with a wage increase of 7 per cent from 1 January and 3 per cent on the basis of performance. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm running out of time, so let other fellow Members speak. Let me mention one more thing: creating a chance. My fellow Member, Dóra Dúró, spoke about the chance-creating school. Let me tell you a few things, because I have a school in my constituency that is a member of the KIP system. Technically, we didn't break out the whole truth about what this government did to make it an inclusive education. There is a public education strategy that talks about inclusive education, about the dissemination of modern pedagogical methods adapted to individual peculiarities and needs, in order to support the acquisition of education for vulnerable social groups. There is a strategy to prevent early school leaving, the key concepts of which are prevention, compensation and correction. This will improve the level of education, skills and reduce the risk of unemployment, poverty and social exclusion. Part of the chance-creating education is that regional differences have decreased in recent years, and the Bridge programmes, the János Arany programmes and the Travel Scholarship are all designed to give every student a chance by the Hungarian school system. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]] [[13.30]]
u2016-11-29-68	Thank you very much, Congressman. From the Jobbik Group, Mrs Hegedűs Lorántné, the notary of the Parliament, is next. Here you go.
u2016-11-29-69	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, For my part, I have tried to be here from the very beginning of the debate, but unfortunately, in the meantime I had to go to a committee meeting, and I went out at the very freezing sentence when our fellow Member Hiller compared the predominance of church institutions to the dark Middle Ages in education. [[Dr. István Hiller: I didn't say that!]] My dear fellow Member, May I remind you, for one sentence, that the Fassior Evangelical High School has by far given this nation most Nobel Prize winners and academics compared to all other educational institutions, but I could safely mention, say, our thousand-year-old Benedictine Education Institute, which has also been at the forefront of quality education. So, I'm sorry, but I'm gonna have to turn down statements of this kind to the farthest possible extent, even though you're gonna allow me to comment on the school nationalizations of 1949-52, but let me compare them to the ten plagues in Egypt, since we're talking about such historical eras. What I would like to say to the Secretary of State, on the other hand, is this. I hear it, Mr. Secretary, and it's a fantastic thing to say that there's a surplus of funding in the district district district and KLIK. But then you will tell me, Mr Secretary of State, why the so-called solidarity contribution is needed in the next budget. At the time when the full nationalisation of educational institutions was announced, in the sense that not only the reservation but the operation will be in the hands of the state, but also the state, you also said that taking over the task will involve financing with the State. Compared to this, we may have received a budget amendment more than a week ago, which, in turn, has already been about a significant withdrawal from the municipalities, for about HUF 50 billion, partly with less central funding being given to certain municipalities and partly with a withdrawal of their own revenue. We know that there will be 20 usque 100 percent withdrawal for certain tasks for municipalities with tax powers above HUF 32,000 per person. Now that the municipalities are discussing their budgetary concept, we know that this is no longer a mandatory genre, but, thank God, a lot of municipalities are still taking advantage of this opportunity, even though they are reappearing in a regular way with the larger municipalities, how much this withdrawal means. Let me tell you that there are hundreds of millions, possibly billions more withdrawal than the individual municipalities have spent on their school. And not because they haven't been dealt with enough, but because the system is so disproportionate. Indeed, this withdrawal surplus must be replaced by local authorities from somewhere, so that other tasks are not damaged. Dear Secretary of State, By the way, we believe that this whole concept, which you have come up with for the solidarity contribution, is against the law, even because your own revenue is being taken away from the municipalities, even though the budget of the municipal sub-scheme is separate from the central budget, it is only linked to the central support; in Hungarian, only in so far as it receives from the state, not as much as the state takes away from the municipalities. So it's a reverse logic, which, unfortunately, is not Mötv., which is also a two-thirds law, but it doesn't even comply with the Fundamental Law. We therefore believe that this whole system is unfair, and if the Secretary of State has already announced to us the great, fantastic news that many, many billions, tens of billions will remain of this year for the next year, then even though this budget contribution will be withdrawn. Thank you so much for listening. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2016-11-29-70	Thank you very much, notary. From the Fidesz Group, Mr László Kucsák is next to speak again. Here you go, Congressman.
u2016-11-29-71	Thank you very much. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, I have also noticed the warning in Mr President's words, so I am also trying to be very brief in this regard. I was able to touch on a number of areas in my speech as Chief Speaker. Allow me to say a few thoughts here about an extremely important profession, recalling that earlier I spoke about the extension of the children's meals, improvements, free textbook supply, teaching careers and so on. In parentheses, not because of what Róbert Benedek Sallai complained about, by the way, that we would only talk about money and resources and finances. That's far from true. I will not enter it now, because the Member is not present in the Chamber, and when he comes back, we will have the opportunity to talk about it, because we consider it extremely important for those involved in education, for example, and especially for the kindergarten area, because in the context of the kindergarten area, it is important to say at this place that strengthening early childhood education plays a key role in preventing social disruption and in promoting school success. According to the Public Education Act, it is therefore mandatory to participate in kindergarten from September 2015 to the age of five years, thus contributing to successful subsequent school integration and successful progress to prevent early departure from the school system. The aim remains in the context of sustainability and development, so that children, including disadvantaged children, can become involved in kindergarten education as early as possible, thus helping to improve the development process that is expected to improve the start-up of school years and reduce the number and proportion of later school leavers. With the introduction of the measure, it is noteworthy that in kindergarten there is a decrease in the number of unauthorized omissions. It is also worth mentioning that, with the support of the government, the pre-school capacity expansion programme will continue within the tendering framework foreseen in Hungary's central budget. This is HUF 2500-2500-2500 million in 2015, 2016 and 2017, and these are not just material items, but these material items serve as extremely important, good causes, which is why I recommend it to the attention of my fellow opposition Members. In line with the growing demands, the government has allocated HUF 100 billion to this development period to expand the capacity of nursery schools and kindergartens, to establish new institutions and to modernise existing ones, and it is important that the number of cradle seats in Hungary will increase from HUF 100 billion to 60 thousand until 2018. I believe that these are all important items and important factors in relation to education. To refer back to the matter that LMP's representative had complained about, to the extent that we mentioned to my fellow Members what had happened in the previous period before 2010, because we are talking about a process here, and it was not the wind that blew up what situation we inherited in terms of governance in 2010. That is why it is important, knowing Margaret Thatcher's former idea that she herself had not seen a socialist government that would not only have taken the loan, but would have paid it back. [[Agnes Kunhalmi: Fideszes!]] Somehow we felt the same way, that the former had taken credit, and we had to repay these loans. That is why I believe that it is justified to mention earlier things that make those actors, those who have also taken the initiative from the benches of the socialists, take a little look at themselves, who have also taken the initiative in this day's debate. So it is no longer impossible for us to live with these reflections, these suggestions on our part. Thank you very much for your attention. [[It's a rare round of applause from the pro-government ranks.]]
u2016-11-29-72	Thank you very much, Congressman. From the group of the LMP, Mr István Ikotity, Member of the Parliament, is next. Here you go.
u2016-11-29-73	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, In recent weeks, we have asked the government several questions about education, and we have heard Bence Rétvári's answers regularly. These statements are now on a time-frame - they are very closely linked to our debate day, as it is about public education - and I would like to respond to the recent favorite document by Secretary of State, Bence Rétvári, which he is very fond of waving, and I would like to take a closer look at it now and to analyse it a little bit, and this is nothing more than the European Commission's 2016 education and training monitor. It is interesting, by the way, that, at other times, government members do not particularly like to flaunt the opinions of the European Commission, but now this material is often taken out. The Secretary of State may also have read only the summary of the document, which is why he uses it so often, which is why he so often refers to it. [[13.40]] This introduction and these tables, which are set out in the introduction, are rather flexible in handling the facts, are not objective compared to the total material. It's like I'm pointing directly at points that are less unpleasant to the government. For example, in the main findings, it is pointed out that the age limit for compulsory preschooling has been reduced to three years, but there is no mention of a reduction in compulsory schooling for 16 years. It is mentioned that the State is already taking away the task of running from the municipalities, but they have not mentioned that the KLIK has not already been able to perform its task properly. And this year, we've seen a new change, a change in the way things are going with the KLIK. They talk about the increase in the number of hours of vocational training subjects in the new secondary school curricula, but they do not say that this increase was at the expense of public knowledge, and the education of physics, chemistry, biology and geography has been reduced. So it's limping right from the start. However, it should be added that very serious statements were made later in the analysis. Either the Secretary of State has not read them, or he deliberately does not want to quote them or quote them from their substance. But let's go in line. Let's take a look at this stuff. The first claim is that we spend more than the EU average on education, and the funding of the area is constantly increasing. The Eurostat database last provides data from 2014, then we spent 5.2 per cent of GDP on education. The Secretary of State of Retvár highlighted this. The EU average was 4.9 percent this year. Indeed, there is more Hungarian than EU data, and it is indeed growing, but Parliamentary Secretary Rétvári has not added that 5.2 percent is much lower than the pre-2010 values, for example, in 2005. Compared to previous withdrawals, funding is now somewhat increasing. But the reason why these figures are a big slide is because the publication also describes in black and white the fact that these expenditures include the use of EU funds for the sector. Well, here's the dog buried! The government has already tried the trick of adding EU funds to government spending and trying to prove that we spend more than other countries in the area, but that is simply not true. Obviously, EU funds cannot be added to the spending of our own country. New entrants will receive more EU funds, older members will receive less, and EU funds will not go into operation, they will not maintain schools, they will not fund teachers' wages. Not to mention that a significant part of these resources are lost because of corruption, let's just think about ORÖ's training or the Öveges program, bullshit, bullshit studies, fake accounts. Not to mention that if we look at education expenditure within total government expenditure, then there is no more than average spending here, we are essentially spending the same amount according to Eurostat as the EU average. There was no mention of this, Mr Retvári State Secretary. If you looked at the exact figures yourself, you would get a more detailed picture, you would not be able to say things that we were in the first half of the European Union in terms of spending in this area. Another statement by Mr Rétvári was that we are spending EUR 344 million to improve the quality of education. According to Eurostat, we spend EUR 5379 million on education in total, EUR 344 million in 6.3 percent of this, i.e. 6.3 percent in development. So we're really not gonna catch up with XXI. Company. Not to mention, for example, printing state textbooks is not really a development, looking at their content and quality. I'll come to the third statement. In Hungary, leaving school without a degree is fortunately lower than leaving school in the European Union. 'Secretary Rétvári,' said. He probably switched the data in the rush, as the Commission also reported that in 2015 Hungary had 11,6 percent early school leaving, while the EU average was less than 11 percent, and, moreover, early school leaving in the EU has shown a significant downward trend in the long term, while Hungarian data has actually been stagnating between 11-12 percent for many years. Here, therefore, we should be ashamed of the data, examining this document. In fact, it is also likely to deteriorate in the future, as in the context of the transformation of vocational education and training, it has been underlined that this could increase the risk of early school leaving. In addition, Minister of State Rétvári did not give the statement from the Commission that I am quoting now:. The system for monitoring young people who have left behind does not exist at the level of schools, local authorities or social institutions. In the absence of information on the development of these young people's lives, it is not possible to provide them with systematic assistance to integrate them into society and into the labour market. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. This is a very serious deficiency, a very serious criticism of Hungary. The Secretary of State does not mention it when referring to this document. Point 4 is that the number of pre-school educators has increased by almost 1.5 percent. We are also above the EU average, at least according to Secretary of State Rétvári. But it does not add that this figure, this 1.5 percent increase, applies to four-year-olds and we have a minimum deviation from the EU average, and it remains important to add that this is always lower than our EU target, our own objective. Point 5. In early development, we are somewhat better than the average of the European Union. 'The statement has been made,' he said. Here again, the Secretary of State has been misplaced in many numbers, as according to Eurostat, only 0.6 percent of those under the age of 2 are involved in early childhood development, but only 12.7 percent of the 2 year olds, with a ratio of only two countries. Others have 50-60 percent, but there's more than 90 percent. So I repeat, there is a ratio of over 90 percent in some countries. We have 0.6 and 12.7 percent. And even if we look at the other side, that is, the participation of adults in education, we still miss the EU average. This is also highlighted in the Commission's paper. According to the sixth change referred to, the Commission welcomed what you are attacking here in Parliament, the increase in the number of vocational training courses, I once again quoted Mr Secretary of State. It also shows that Mr State Secretary - so I am still talking about Mr Rétvári - has only read the introduction to the document, and in the later analysis they clearly point out that this increase has occurred at the expense of public knowledge, as I have just mentioned. In addition to increasing the risk of early school leaving, it is also highlighted that the measure limits the possibility of transition between different vocational training programmes. Instead of greetings - he mentions greetings - they also made a very serious criticism when they wrote in the report:. However, due to the strong reduction in the basic skills part of the three-year curriculum, students hardly get the key competences they need to learn the subjects they need to graduate. This is also a quote from the report. This sentence was not said by Secretary of State Rétvári, and he said the opposite when he was waving this document. Point 7 is that Hungarians find work much faster than the EU average at home. I quote Mr. State Secretary again: 80.4 percent of high school graduates in Hungary today, and 76.9 percent of the EU average. This is true, but there is also a very sad reason for this, which the Secretary of State did not mention, and this is the fact that a large part of those who have recently graduated, and a large part of young people, unfortunately, will not remain in Hungary. We know the numbers of people leaving the country looking for work. So it's worth looking behind these numbers. Finally, the eighth is the material. The creators of the material also welcomed the increasing number of higher education graduates. This is true, compared to 2012, 34.3 percent of the population aged 30-34 years are no longer graduates. Otherwise, this is still far less than the EU average, which is 39 percent. [[13.50]] But let's add one thing: the school education of 30-34-year-olds has little to do with the Orbán government. This is about the fact that those who went to university before 2010 have just become 30-34 years old, and they started their studies long before the drop of higher education. Thanks to the activities of the Orbán government, this rate will be reduced, as while 140,000 people had applied to higher education in 2010 only 110,000 students, and while they had hired 100,000 students in the past, it is now less than 80,000. So when the Secretary of State Rétvári mentions this document, he either did not read it completely or deliberately misinterpret it. I would like to sum up what has been said here and a few other facts. The document states that teachers' salaries have increased slightly in 2013, but are still among the lowest in the European Union, reaching around 71 percent of other payments with tertiary education. Payments are linked to four different categories of the new pedagogue career model, with the introduction of this model ending replacement overtime, thus reducing the impact of the increase on the basic salary. And as we know, it was also torn from the minimum wage, which would have been a 15 percent increase. There's no way the teachers can get that. According to the 2012 PISA survey, the Hungarian students provided the weakest performance in the digital competence test in Europe and their results have deteriorated since 2009. The lack of digital skills limits the chances of future employment. And for a very long time, I could list the things that are in this document and misquote, misrepresentation and misrepresentation of the opposition arguments by Secretary of State Rétvári. Please take a look at these figures, and it will turn out that this document supports exactly the statements of the opposition. Thank you.
u2016-11-29-74	Thank you very much, Mr. Notary. It is now possible to make two-minute speeches. I give the floor to Congresswoman Rózsa Hoffmann. Here you go.
u2016-11-29-75	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I am glad that I have just come to the line, because I would like to talk about some results, first of all, in the area of language learning. Perhaps you have overlooked the fact that the 2011 Act introduced the sixth and eighth grade measurement of primary schoolchildren. According to international standards, it would be desirable for sixth-graders to reach A1 and eighth-graders to achieve A2 levels. The results of the first year are encouraging, since 82 percent of the sixth graders, 70 percent of the eighth graders, reached this level. I wish that this result would continue to increase in the future. It has not yet been mentioned that Hungary is an example of the rights it gives to nationalities living in its territory in education. We've set separate limits. National authorities can maintain schools, and in all ethnic languages there is also an education in the mother tongue in addition to learning only the mother tongue. This situation has also been considered exemplary by the Committee of Experts of the Council of Europe's Language Charter. At the same time, Hungary can also show very significant results in its efforts to teach Hungarians stranded outside its borders, not only in Transylvania, which has been mentioned in recent months, but also traditionally in the South, Transylvania and the Highlands. The fact that children can still learn Hungarian there and learn Hungarian would not be possible without the help of the Hungarian government. I believe that these are also achievements that we can record as huge positives, and I wish for them to continue only in this direction.
u2016-11-29-76	Thank you very much. Since many have not applied for a two-minute speech, I give the floor to Secretary of State László Palkovics. Here you go, Secretary of State. Then we'll go on with the proper speeches.
u2016-11-29-77	Mr President, Dear Congressmen, ladies and gentlemen, I am sorry that Congressman Ikotity has left, because he has painted such a negative picture of the Hungarian school system and the performance of the students, that I thought, after we are in the middle of a debate day, I would improve this mood a little bit. By the way, the results of the TIMSS 2015 study were published today. TIMSS, Trends in International Mathematics and Science Study is, of course, fundamentally different from PISA's methodology - in the field of mathematics and science. It measures the similarity and change of fourth and eighth grade children in different countries. I'd like to quote some of this data. I suggest we all take a look at this, on the website of the Education Office - unfortunately we cannot project the results here - there are infographics that demonstrate the results much better if the ladies and gentlemen of the Council think they can look at this, but I would like to say a few figures. In 2015, the fourth-graders from 50 countries participated in the survey. The average result of the Hungarian fourth graders of 525 points is significantly higher than the TIMSS average, and belongs to the category where Lithuania, Finland, Poland, the Netherlands and the Czech Republic, for example, have performed on the same level as these countries. A little lower than Singapore's, Hong Kong's, Korea's, and Taiwan's education systems are known. There are so many problems that within these good results, it is positive that 12 percent of fourth graders are classified as excellent skill levels and 8 percent belong to the lowest level. This shows and confirms the results of PISA, the impact of the social background on the results. The average of the eighth graders at 514 points is also significantly higher than the average of the TIMSS scale. Here, only a few Far Eastern countries have achieved better results: Singapore, Korea and Hong Kong, but the Hungarian eighth graders have performed on the same level with students from Ireland, the United States, England, Slovenia, Norway, Lithuania, Israel and Australia. The results in the field of scientific measurement of TIMSS are even better. Here, the 4th-grade Hungarian students have 542 points of the average natural science, one of the best of the European countries, here we are only slightly behind the Russian and Finnish students, otherwise we are fully in line with all the others, and we really belong to the upper group. In the case of the eighth grade, Hungarian students achieved an average of 527 points in the natural sciences. Their knowledge is practically equivalent to the average of English, US, Canadian, Swedish and Lithuanian students. Solving the dark picture that Congressman Ikotity painted, I think that this type of results of Hungarian students are certainly positive. And about what correlation we have, we're still gonna talk about it. Thank you. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-11-29-78	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. As usual, the Secretary of State's time will be deducted from the Fidesz time frame. Now it is time for a proper speech from the Fidesz Group, Mrs Mónika Dunai. Here you go, Congresswoman, you have the floor.
u2016-11-29-79	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, According to the philosophy of Fidesz and KDNP, the child is the first in the family. But not just in the family, but in the school. Everything in school has to be for the child. I find it very regrettable that, on today's political debate, little has been heard from the opposition benches about children, but there has been more talk about politics. Therefore, perhaps I would like to talk a little bit about children, about the development of children's talents, and about what and how we can promote talent development and the recognition of talent. Our important goal is to create equal opportunities in the development of talent as well. Our important goal is to promote the discovery and development of talent in each child, including disadvantaged pupils. In the field of talent management, we follow a completely different path than that followed by MSZP-SZDSZ before 2010. [[14.00]] Liberal-socialistic education policy and governance have reduced the support of basic art education, disrupting the system of complementary norms. It removed the possibility of differentiated development because of the restrictions, these were first removed between 2006 and 2008. Remember, you have drastically reduced, in some schools the number of specialized circles, the number of sports circles, the possibility of art occupations, choirs. Or where they had them, either with the support of local governments or with the help of parents' money. At that time, support for colleges was significantly reduced. We, fellow Members of the opposition, had to build from here after 2010. This is not the path we want to follow. We follow the way to encourage educators to work more fully not only on catching up, educating, but also on caring for talent in schools in the afternoon. In addition, we help the talent management of Hungarian students with a number of applications, the most important of which is the national talent programme. The basic strategic objective of the National Talent Programme is to find talented young people, to help talented young people on a continuous basis, and to promote the utilisation of talent in small towns, villages, small schools and large cities in Budapest. The resources available in the national central budget and the resources available in the operational programmes of the European Union are used to achieve the objectives of the national talent programme. In 2016, nearly HUF 3 billion is available for the implementation of the programme, and the same amount has been planned as the source of the 2017 calls for proposals. On the basis of the two-year action programmes launched between 2009 and 2016, 8850 projects received funding. The total amount of aid granted was more than HUF 12 billion. Each year 300-350 thousand young people could participate in programmes to help them develop their talent. In the coming period, until the end of 2020, the flagship programme "Hungary of Talents" launched under the Human Resources Operational Programme will run. The program is implemented in a consortium, the consortium leader is the New Nemzetvédék Központ Nonprofit Közhasznú Kft., and its consortium partner is the Association of Hungarian Talent Assistance Organizations. The programme also has a huge budget of HUF 6.5 billion, which also means that in these years, in addition to domestic budget resources, more than one billion HUF will be allocated to talent support. Ladies and gentlemen, In 2016, 45 applications were announced. The total amount was HUF 2.7 billion. At the beginning of the 2016-17 academic year, the talent portal, the IT system for talent identification and talent support, was developed with the support of the national talent programme. The talent gate is a web-based software capable of recording talent identification, talent-care activities and their results. The aim of the talent-gate information system is to bring together the wide-ranging initiatives and developments of talent so far, and to support the development and development of talent. I think that this talent portal is a useful knowledge base that our teachers can shoot for profit. We consider it very important that teachers, professionals, organisations and priority programmes who perform outstanding talent-care activities receive professional recognition. That's what we're doing. Within the framework of the National Talent Programme, in 2013 we founded the Bonis Bona Prize for the Talent of the Nation. But we also award our talent-enhancing educators with an excellent talent-career award, an excellent talent-enhancing prize, and an excellent talent-supporting organization category, which we award every year. The need to establish a European talent support network was first formulated at the 2011 EU presidency conference in Budapest. At the end of my speech, I would like to mention this to you because we are talking about the recognition of a domestic talent research activity, when this was outlined in 2011 during our EU Presidency in Budapest, which then continued. We were leading the way in Europe. The idea of creating a European network included a plan to set up a European talent centre based in Budapest, one of the tasks of contributing to the future European network. [[István Jakab, vice-president of the Parliament takes the chair.]] The European Talent Centre in Budapest was established and opened in July 2012, and then in the European circulation we Hungarians received and received special attention in the development of talent. My fellow Members have repeatedly mentioned the need to raise happy children in school. In this, I think we all agree, and perhaps this is the only point in common that could be a start for the future. Maybe we can agree on that. Indeed, to be happy, balanced adults in Hungary, happy and successful children are needed. [[István Szávay replaces the gullible Dezső in the notary seat.]] And how a child will be balanced and happy plays a very big role in whether we are able to recognize his talent, whether our teachers are able to recognize this talent and then develop it, and we here, within the walls of Parliament, are able to provide all the help that this talent can develop through teachers, and on this basis a happy and balanced child will be a happy and balanced adult. Thank you very much for your attention. [[It's a rare round of applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-11-29-80	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Welcome, fellow Members. Dear Parliament, Mr Agnes Kunhalmi, MSZP Group, will now take the floor. Here you go, Congresswoman.
u2016-11-29-81	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, We have been debating the situation of Hungarian public education for many hours. Well, when you used to say it was a success story, and that's kind of what we're feeling right now, it's a success story, but unfortunately, that's not the reality. Even if Mr Secretary of State is currently reading the latest research results. The battle situation is that we are talking most about problems that you have caused in recent years. They have made such reforms and, to say the least, foolish and misguided changes that your internal papers, your decision-making ministry papers and not only foreign researchers, the domestic profession, educational researchers and trade unions have brought to light, but also your people have said and described in almost every area. [[Dr. Lajos Szűcs takes the notary seat.]] It's a big problem. By 2016, we reached the point that there was never such a deep gap between children and children in Hungary. There is such a gap that those born poor children in Hungary today, or for some reason they slip away... and unfortunately the whole middle class also slides down. The policy that you have started in the field of education, but I would say that the whole social and economic policy is tearing apart Hungarian society, not only poor children have been excluded from the school system, I am thinking of the age limit of compulsory education, or the mobilisation channels have closed systematically after 2010, and the measures can be categorized, and this policy has reached the middle-class children as well. [[14.10]] If someone's got money today, they'll get good education, if they don't. We have come to the point where thousands of middle-class parents and civil families buy knowledge outside the system of Hungarian public education. Mr Secretary of State, you can be proud of the new reading results, by the way, compared to 2011, you determine - this is described in the methodology - the educational results, but Benő Csapó, to whom you have already referred, clearly stated that more than 20 percent of Hungarian society is functionally illiterate. That's a problem. The biggest problem, of course, is that the Minister himself is not aware of the concepts, and at his annual regular hearing, unfortunately, he said that he doubted this data, and it appeared that almost the entire committee snored, so I think this is a problem, but that he still denies or does not understand the concept is still the phenomenon. You know why the results of understanding the text in education can improve at all - but we wait, and then, between 6-10th and a few days, the new PISA survey will come out - because parents buy knowledge outside. Practically public education is now becoming useless. Not only do parents buy the IT class, they buy the language classes, but they also buy the reading lessons. They're sending kids to history classes, literature classes, math classes. They buy outside what the public school system can no longer train. Teachers are not able to do their own job slowly. Nervously exhausted, burned out, overloaded with administration. They don't get any help from the Klebelsberg Institutional Center, they're constantly being politically exterminated. All in all, and if we're talking about equality books, they've told us here several times, even though you're giving me the textbook for free, it's full of physical errors, it's not worth a free textbook if it's full of nonsense. It is also your assessment: the vast majority of teachers, two thirds of them, do not consider it appropriate, they said that they are not helping them in education, that they cannot use equality books as a tool. Several fellow Members have said, but the profession has also drawn attention to the fact that with silly textbooks they will not be able to teach children to write, read or read properly, and when Benő Csapó says that more than 20 percent, some research shows that there is more than 25 percent functional illiteracy, then there is something very wrong in this area. I ask you if this can be handled by the uniformization, centralization, the silly emancipation book, the overload, the unteachable and unteachable national master plan. I don't think he knows. There was a need for a change, but not in the direction you left. I would like to respond to your statements on church schools so far. It's very easy to say to a left-wing man that you're anti-church anyway, not to assume that every man has his religion and his own faith, regardless of his political affiliation, or even what ideology he's following. As a social democrat, I think religion is a private matter. What John Lazarus said, I find it very disbarring to think that the purpose of public education is to educate a good Christian. I am disincentived, even convinced, that he is also opposed to the Basic Law and to the basic spirit of the Public Education Act itself, since it basically goes against free religious practice. We're used to the fact that you're beginning to distinguish between children and children, but since the church law has unfortunately been changed, they've made a distinction between church and church. Make no mistake, we do not object to the church, but regard them as a partnership. Indeed, the state needs partners in the performance of the tasks of public education. That's the churches, the NGOs, the municipalities, everyone in their territory. We are not sorry that children in church schools receive more or better funding, get double normative, and I am sorry that they discriminate against children in public schools, that they get less. I actually think that's a problem. In addition, let me bring here Prime Minister Viktor Orbán's words on 4 July 1991:, I believe that in today's Hungarian political situation, the state's annual budgetary support to the churches creates a specific dependency on the relations of the Church of State. In 94 he repeated these sentences in good form. It's been a long, long time. I wouldn't agree with that statement either, but where you've come to in recent years, I think it's harmful, and church leaders have declared that it's necessary to complete the violent shift of middle class and elite, especially children born to elite families, to the church, because they won't be able to do their job properly. I would also like to refer to the Klebelsberg Institutional Support Centre in this regard. It's really not a success story. The Klebelsberg Institutional Support Center fell in front of us. You referred to the need to create the KLIK because before 2010, debt in the wrong system was enormous, and a multitude of municipalities were unable to carry out their task. They like to smack numbers, and the 1,200 billion that the state took over, the Fidesz state after 2010 - they're one-on-one equal to the accumulation of educational debt. By the way, no government debt was accumulated due to education. Mostly the Fidesz municipalities, however, accumulated debt, to which it was granted after 2007, that, here the global economic crisis is upon us, the worse, the better, and the Fidesz municipalities owed themselves without a neck. Unfortunately, that's the reality, you can't deny it, because the numbers prove it. The system of public education in the settlements and cities where the municipalities were good farmers was seriously affected. Moreover, their argument failed, because before 2010, the state ran out of funding for public education, and unfortunately we can see that if it has generated debt before, you will continue to do so, because the KLIK has also become a debt-generating machine, regardless of whether you have paid for it now. Secretary of State, it's not enough that you're referring to how great it is that we paid off the debt of the Klebelsberg Institutional Support Center, I'm asking you to do this. This poor structure has accumulated this. Now it has been paid, and unfortunately this structure will remain later, and it will also generate debt. In a year's time, we'll also be talking about how much debt the KLIK is generating. So there's no better way for you to come up with it. Their own reasoning logic is failing here, unfortunately. In my opinion, self-governments should not be disengaged from the administration of education. They need to be called back to help. They can be much better masters of schools in many, many places. It is necessary to find out where the state intervenes wisely and well in the administration of education, where the municipalities cannot really do so alone. I'd like to tell you about the dropout. This is also a very tough symptom of the exclusional school system you've been doing. We read from your study that after 2011, when the age limit for compulsory education was reduced, 42,500 children dropped out of the school system. Where are these kids? [[14.20]] At the same time, a public work programme, the minimum age of which is also 16 years, was established. I think it's inhuman, inhuman, by the way, practically child labor has been introduced. It should be understood that raising or lowering the age limit for compulsory education is a tool, a tool in the hands of the current policy and the government to hold the hands of children born in the poorest families in some way. It is not enough in itself, and we agree that raising the age limit of compulsory education alone does not help, although there are a lot of statistics, and experts have said that if a poor child stays in school every time for only six months, if he is placed in the back row, if he is not dealt with, but is in a community within the school walls, he will be much less vulnerable to the labour market; only six months, now there are statistics like this. The age limit of compulsory education has caused a huge problem in Hungary. I don't know what else it would take to see that this tool is worth using, but it doesn't go so far as to deliver the school obligation, introduce the failure in the lower school, introduce the failure in the upper school - practically a 14-year-old child when he finishes eight years of primary school - if he fails in the lower school, fails in the upper school, falls out of the school system, leaves the primary school without having a primary education, let alone a vocational education. There's nothing we can do about those kids later. Believe me, there is no adult education - I'm sure that the adult education experts are getting mad at me, because this is a very serious area of expertise, but if the kids don't get it in time, then when it's in place, from a smart state, a strong, good and creative school system, which, as you said, is focused on skills development, there is no program to completely replace it or bring it back to life. This is an incredibly big problem, and it will be an incredible burden for the next governments as well. Let us not mention that 57 percent of Roma leave school early. It's inhumane to push these children out and ignore them - because these children don't get the motivation that a middle-class child gets from their parents before. If there's no state, there's no one else who can help these kids. Be it a right-wing politician, be it a left-wing politician, you have to have children in front of us. The congresswoman is right, it would be a child-centred education and not an institution-centred education. Most of us talk about KLIK's problems, we talk about stupid nationalization, and we barely talk about where a child should really be when he's 14, 16 or, for example, how we're gonna compensate for the fact that his vocabulary isn't even the same for kids when they're seven. There's a whole different vocabulary for a child born in a poor family and a middle-class kid going to school. It is not the solution to tear them apart, or to create bridge programs for them, or to give them an equatorial book, or to give the teacher an unteachable NAT, but to try to use all the means to bring these children up together, to keep them together, because they will become creative, strong, tolerant adults later. And here's functional illiteracy, which is the best indicator of where a country is headed. We must not allow ourselves to ignore that. This will not be facilitated by the fact that the National Basic Training Plan is so narrow. I am pleased that, by the way, the Secretary of State has also mentioned that they will change it and that there will be a discussion about it, but we said that even when this basic national curriculum was created in the previous cycle. We begged him not to be so full, and not to allow 10 percent of the derogation, but to remain at least 30 percent. And if I can make a suggestion now, please, in the next NAT there should be at least 30 percent difference, precisely because you have to teach children in a differentiated way, and teachers need the freedom to deviate from it. Finally, there is much more to talk about, for example, the digital education strategy, the lag in Hungary in this area. If there is even more lag than the number of functional illiterates, the gap is even greater, it is the digital competence of children. I listened to former State Secretary Czunyiné and read the DOS several times and studied it carefully. The truth is that this digital education strategy that you've created is just because over 100,000 people have gone out against you against the Internet, and even wishful thinking, because they don't understand the point, they're just doing it to make it happen, and they're checking out this area. We see that there are some new applications for digitalisation, but they are mainly for infrastructure development. If we look at the neighbouring countries, Germany has launched a five-year Smart School test programme recently, and Austria has also recognised this lack and spends millions of euros on digital education. In the UK, programming has taken primary school training, and from this year on, programming has been introduced into Finland's national basic curriculum, and it has been cleverly done: they have not created a separate subject, so that teachers will somehow solve it, but digital competence will appear in all subjects. What I see as a problem in DOS is that there is little money for infrastructure development, but at least there is. Teacher training, training of teachers, would require much more than the Secretary of State has listed here. Finally, let me mention what we are calling for instead of centralized, very forced nationalisation, a creative school. The main criterion is this, and I have repeatedly said that the school does not focus on the institutions, but on the children. The creative school encourages educators and builds systems, creates a framework for policy at all levels to focus on children's talents, not their flaws, not their shallowness, but what that unique child in the class can do with his twenty-fiveth self, fifteenths of himself. This is a change of perspective, it is not easy, I also say that it is not four years, and much more time, but the right and left half of the political elite must talk about it. I'm saying today that you're talking about it, I can hear the concepts, but in the content you're doing, that's not what you're saying. What you're doing isn't going to help. Instead of mechanical uniformization, experience pedagogy is needed; children's learning abilities, as you mentioned earlier, should be sought to acquire the ability to learn lifelong: differentiated thinking, logical ability-development, ability to dare to fail, ability to start over, ability to ask questions. At a time when the new National Basic Training Plan is being started, these concepts should always be in mind to serve these purposes. The most important aspect of the creative school is that it raises cooperation, tolerance, openness, acceptance, solidarity with one another; unfortunately, in recent years, I have hardly heard those words from your mouth. It's not enough to put xenophobic and exclusion on posters, and it's very profound for children, because they felt those posters too. Unfortunately, they shouldn't come back in a public education law. [[14.30]] Finally, the most important task of the creative school is to develop emotional intelligence. I'm afraid that sometimes I feel that your government should also enroll in a creative course. Thank you.
u2016-11-29-82	Thank you, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, Mr Tamás László, Member of the Fidesz Group, will take the floor. Here you go, Congressman.
u2016-11-29-83	Thank you for the floor. Mr. President. Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, Dear fellow Members, The debate on public education has already been taking place for the fifth hour, and a complex transformation has taken place, affecting all its segments, and we are discussing it. This includes facing, creating a strategy for public education and education, institution building, content issues, incredible many things. And it also includes the mass catering that we consider to be an integral part of the education, so, if you'll excuse me, I'd like to say a communal meal. All of this is an incredible problem in a country where family eating together in families is increasingly being pushed into the background, and so schools are forced to take over the role of families in part. We are talking about a community meal in a country where unhealthy nutrition is deeply absorbed in everyday life. Today, if possible, children can shape their eating culture towards their parents. Sadly, this is the origo point when we examine community food. In all of this, as in many other segments of public education, the government manifests a high degree of iteration, adaptation and, if necessary, correctional skills. First let me talk about the content of the communal meal, what is on the table? I'm going to ask you a question. Where did we start? I'll just tell you a very important document or number, fact: in 2010, the XV. In the kitchen plant of one of the schools in the district, only one percent of the food materials received were fresh food, the other so-called convenience products. Here, for a healthier meal, the government has taken a lot of serious steps. First, the elements of the Community meal appeared as a temporary element as a recommendation. This would have given the institutions the opportunity to be prepared with the introduction of mandatory standards, but, despite this, from 1 September 2015, mandatory standards were almost unprepared for many institutions. Moreover, due to the eating habits from home, the transformation proved to be too rapid. The government was fully rationally prepared for the correction and did so. It should also be noted that the content of a healthier Community meal was preceded by a very significant 50 percent increase in the norm. This ensured that the relatively more expensive standard of raw materials for healthier eating in the Community would be covered. Many people have talked about numbers, many have said how the number of free users has increased, but I have to mention one important thing, because it also has a role for both service providers and institutions and families. While from nearly 100 percent of preschools to secondary schools, the number of users is decreasing, the lowest among high school students, with a share of less than 25 percent. This is therefore a very serious task. The government has also done a great deal for a holiday, summer, weekend communal meal. Dear House, Let me tell you about a very important case, a local case. I think this is very important because everyone is asking the government for local problems, such as community food, although implementation, new healthier food quality, depends on the level of service providers and institutions, the government determines the framework and resources. Annex XV is amended as follows: In the district, I have set up a board table, where the topic has been defined, the service providers are involved, there is a winning private service provider, and there is an institution that provides approximately half of it to the institution. This is very positive, because there is a competition between them, none of them in a monopoly position. And in this round table are the institutions, the bodies of the local government. All the institutions are there, there are dozens of institutions. Five meetings per year were set out in the municipal proposal. In the first session, the left was prepared to condemn the local community meal completely, and what happened instead? The institutions themselves reported positive changes compared to the previous service providers, and the new service provider responded quickly and flexibly to all comments. There was one problem, however, and this is a serious problem, and this is that the better quality of the children required quantity above the norm, because they wanted to eat more of the good. At the second meeting, fine-tuning and the formal issues of dialogue were highlighted. In addition, the new provider has also undertaken to renovate dozens of heating kitchens in its contract. This is especially important because the food delivered can greatly deteriorate by improper and unprofessional serving. The list I've compiled will replace the government's actions with small change here. There are a number of very important elements in this: thinking towards parents, families, kitchen workers, children; an important role for the national, but above all, the local media; and there are a lot of programs in this material that are constantly being introduced. In contrast to this real and very important attempt to engage in dialogue elsewhere, opposition protests on communal food, let me share a little bit with you. The performance of two good socialist ladies in the hallway was as follows: in front of the elevator a small pot was put in front of me to taste this horror. It was really bad because it was cold and unenjoyable. However, the way these two fine ladies did it was exactly how inadequate their protests were when there was no time or place. So I think it's something like the whole initiative bears the mark of incompetence, and I see a number of similar elements of the debate on public education. Thank you for your attention. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2016-11-29-84	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congressman Ander Balázs, Jobbik Group. Here you go.
u2016-11-29-85	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, I wish to talk to the vocational schools myself about re-baptized vocational schools, a special segment of the Hungarian vocational training system, which, despite the triumphant introductions, is in many cases complex, has a complex set of problems that many in Hungary consider this type of school to be a kind of veterinary horse of the educational system. Many are reluctant to do so; it is not by chance that more than 60 percent of the advertised places are unfilled. In total, about 25 percent of a generation, a grade, goes into this type of school. And many people condemn this type of school as a public education retreat or a sort of dead end, many see much more in it than they should, from a pro-government side, and actually see it as a savior of the economy, which, in its present form, in my opinion, as a teacher in a vocational school, there is a teacher who spends a decade there, I have to say, it will not happen. In his introductory speech, the Secretary of State rightly quoted the McKinsey report, which states that education is like a teacher. We can agree with that, but we also have to admit that the teacher is not a type of omnipotent, public benefit ubermensch, who can act in this system, independent of all social and economic determinants, as an all-powerful player. It is certain that, let us say, in Somogy County or Borsod County, in an elegant school, a educator who truly considers his profession to be a lifelong calling must be regarded as an ordinary hero, but he is certainly not omnipotent. They expect these people to solve social problems, many times from these colleagues, for which they have neither the means nor the authority. [[14.40]] Once again, they can't get out of the social determination that surrounds the entire education system. However, we must accept as a Xioma if we are talking about this area, that in terms of integration, Roma-Hungarian coexistence, which will be one of the most important areas in this country in the coming decades, there is a very important cardinal role for this type of school, which is why we should also pay more attention to this school. It must be recognised that if the proportion of children who are not only Gypsy children here, but, let's say, the number of students who are disadvantaged or disadvantaged is three times as high as I do in an average high school, then this area requires much more attention, because the problems that appear here cannot be solved otherwise. It's really just a few dry figures. As a population of one million and an increasing number of gypsies, with a very young age, has at least 200,000 children of student age, and about two thirds of these children head for vocational training after primary school, they go to vocational schools in their former names. However, there is a need to talk about the sociocultural background, the disadvantages they come to these types of schools, and if teachers are left alone or the people working there who are helping the pedagogical work are left to themselves, and the state is not paying any attention to them, then they will certainly not be able to cope with this set of problems. There is also an adlerian bicultural socialization, which is often very, very bumpy, because the overlap between the primary socialisation space and the institutional socialisation space is often, let us admit, small. In many cases, resistance, hostility towards school can be observed from these families, but this should be somehow bridged by the educator. Congresswoman Dóra Dúró has also said many times about the Kőműszer Kelemen effect: what she would build, let's say, during the day, in many cases, the retreating family environment will also tear it down nicely at home. It's just a few figures again. In this case, we also need to see that 80 percent of the active-age gypsy population only has primary education and employment is only 39 percent and half of the employees are in public work. So this is when you have to think about the perspective for young people who come to such a type of school. In the case of vocational training, dual training must also be discussed, which is not something of a devil. We do not say that it is bad, but in this case you are, in the specific case of Hungary, more of an island-like example of modernization than of Győr or Kecskemét, and not of the great Hungarian obsession. It is a sight to see how horrifying PISA results are with students entering this school system, and the fact is that these students have become somewhat more silly in this school system, not like their high school peers, but also compared to their former self. On this, Mr. Secretary of State, you put a shovel on it, because if we look at the framework curriculum that the Chamber of Industry has actually dictated to you, and it has been slavishly satisfied, then the question of what you will do here must be raised. In the ninth grade, 11 o'clock, 10 o'clock, 11 o'clock, 2 o'clock of public knowledge will be sufficient for what? The president of the Hungarian Vocational Training Association also said that basic education has the efficiency of a steam machine, and we know that it is only 6 percent. So it says a lot about the essence of the system. This is also where it should be noted that vocational school training has been taught, not from the bottom of the school, but rather from the top of the school, but from lower the expectations and needs of the vocational school. This is what I wanted to talk about, and if Mr Rétvári was here, I would have asked him some unsearched questions about the future of the village schools. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2016-11-29-86	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, There are two-minute speeches coming up. I give the floor to Congressman Márius Révész, Fidesz Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2016-11-29-87	Thank you for the floor. I would like to respond very briefly to some of the points that have been raised so far. On the one hand, it was said that the middle class is slipping down in Hungary and that there is a dramatic picture of it. The thing is, it's worth a look at the latest KSH statistics. What we can see in it - this was still for 2014 - is that in 2014 the situation was more favourable for virtually all poverty indicators than in 2010 at the time of the change of government. The statistics for 2015 will be published soon. I would also suggest that we discuss it here in Parliament, I think many will be surprised. Then it was said that the proportion of functional illiteracy is 20-25 percent. And just in order to functionally understand what this data is about, that means, I don't know, in a 10-90-year-old society, so many people don't understand what they're reading. This is not the ratio for current children. [[Agnes Kunhalmi: Yes, here's the data!]] Dear Ágnes Kunhalmi, this is practically the ratio for Hungarian society. I think the Secretary of State rightly said that if reading indicators improve - and these are improved according to the last surveys - this will result in a decrease in the proportion of this functional illiteracy, too, over time. I think it's a very positive development that KLIK has no debt, and this is not a development of its own. Minister of State has achieved that Hungarian public education has received an extra HUF 91 billion, and this HUF 91 billion has otherwise been incorporated into the Hungarian budget, so it will not regenerate debt. The age limit for compulsory education. Let me draw your attention to one piece of data. 30 percent of children attending vocational school were left out of vocational school during a survey conducted by István Hiller, and I have to say that 50 percent of disadvantaged children were left out of vocational school. This was before the age of compulsory education. I think that our most important step towards equal opportunities was to introduce kindergartens from the age of 3, full-day employment at school, and I think that the state of Hungarian education has changed a lot compared to the situation a year ago. Thank you so much for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of Fidesz.]]
u2016-11-29-88	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, A two-minute speech was submitted by Ms Agnes Kunhalmi, MSZP. Here you go, Congresswoman.
u2016-11-29-89	Thank you very much, Mr. President. 2012 PISA results: 19.7 percent of children have reading problems and functional illiteracy at 15 years of age. This is cumulative data, projected to society as a whole. [[Márius Révész intervenes.]] So it has been shown to the PISA results, but it will show in a matter of days, by the way, the next, my honourable fellow Member. The only thing about KSH is that Hungarian families are most surprised by what you said about how well they live. It's about KSH manipulating poverty data, changing measurement, so it's very tough to refer to how well they live. But not only poverty figures but also unemployment figures have been manipulated, and most recently, for example, dyslexic data, suddenly 3,500-4000 children have disappeared from the system. So we keep seeing you try to act like the problem isn't, but there is. Thank you.
u2016-11-29-90	Thank you, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, We will continue with the speeches by Members. I give the floor to Member László Horváth, Fidesz Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2016-11-29-91	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. For my part, I intend to talk about the system of everyday physical education because I see that this bold move carries a paradigm shift that can otherwise exceed the outcome of nearly twenty years of barren debates that I have experienced in relation to the education system. Allow me to start a little further, even for the reason that I have spent my fifth parliamentary term in this House by the grace of the electorate, and since 1990 I have had the opportunity not only to follow up on the very sharp political debates on education, but also to participate actively in these debates in the first three cycles. I was happy to attend and listened to these debates because I came here directly from the world of education in 1990. And it is true that the previous speakers, like Balázs Ander's obsession and the image of the deep abyss raised by Ágnes Kunhalmi, immediately brought out the memories that I would like to share with you, and not because I would point back just because of where we started, not in 2010. In 1987, as a fresh graduate, I went to primary school in Szilvásvárad and got a fifth grade with more than 30 students that 12 children couldn't read or write. Fifth grade! It wasn't their fault, but with that life retard - and there weren't Gypsies, there was one of them the Gypsy, and with that life retard just before anyone even thought about it - they didn't go out with it, but the school unfortunately expanded their life disadvantages. And I still feel guilty today that we couldn't help them. And I remember when we started out, I was a junior teacher, but I didn't have a major, so I taught him everything the principal said. [[14.50]] I'm going to talk about everyday physical education, and I also remember that on the stairwell, next to the rocky floor, there was a rib and two benches, and, by the way, if the weather was bad, there had to be 30 children to solve the problem in that reduced number of hours. With regard to the debates over the past period, let me say to you that it is to be seen that this is an area in which there really should be a common understanding on the part of the political elite. I used to say, self-ironically, that I couldn't do more for the nation than not teach, but in this it says that I deeply acknowledge the work of teachers and the responsibility they bear on their shoulders. But what I see, after the debates over the past period, is that there is no debate in this area either out of strength, lungs or anger, and we are not going to go any further if we continue to do so. And maybe that's why internal tensions are constantly straining the system, and that's why it's constantly under pressure from political and otherwise professional lobbying, not to mention social expectations, because we're trying to put together two principles, two life explanations and life strategies that have no common ground. What do I mean? One question is whether or not the system can be maximistic. The maximum is, according to his original report, big and many; what we expect from the system, whether we want to put the system to the top, which is trendy today. Because if anyone in the world today declares that he is a perfectionist, then he is proud of that. But to maximize the system, we know that otherwise it's not sustainable. The maximum system will degrade itself, leave you no backup and can't sustain you. Yet, even so, the perfectionists always insist that the world should be sustainable. What conflicts with the perfectionist expectation, which is a quantitative expectation, is the pursuit of optimism. Optimum means I'm trying to get to a good state. Optimal operation has never reached its peak. It never asks you to give up all your strength here, now, and tomorrow, to give out more of yourself. And I think that's the big question about the education system, whether it's looking for optimism, good status, or whether it's creating perfectionist demands and expectations for children. And it's always under each system and government that the ratio of these changes may change, but it's always the perfectionist, always the performance-oriented, always, as they say, marketable knowledge, always the knowledge needed to make progress, and that's when it doesn't fit what the public doesn't appreciate as useful, it doesn't fit, for example, physical education, it doesn't fit the music, it doesn't fit the drawing. And I remember how many times since 1998 the organizations of Hungarian physical education teachers came by saying that, please, the indicators are so terrible that they should do something about everyday physical education. But the answer was always no, it can't handle the system, because we need more information, we need more math, we need more foreign languages, and I don't know what else we need. And while it didn't happen with everyday physical education, otherwise the children's burden didn't decrease, it increased. This step was a courageous step in the introduction of everyday physical education, even if the conditions were not ready; but it had to start somewhere, and in this matter it could not wait any longer. And the reason I think it's a paradigm shift, because it's all about optimism, it's about optimism, it's about the optimism, and by the way, it's exactly what you like to say to me about modern or modern school -- let's call it humane -- well, now they all have to do, have a habit, have a habit, even as part of everyday physical education, to cooperate. Have the habit of respecting one another, having a real and realistic self - appreciation. And it's absolutely democratic. Referring back to what was said at the beginning, the 12 children who could not read and write never had success in school, unfortunately not in life. These children felt like something when we went out to the courtyard, because at that time they felt that they had a place under the sky of God, because they were part of the team, they were needed here, because they knew something. Every step that comes from here - gymnasium, gymnasium, school or otherwise is now provided in the master's plans, it adapts this system to local needs and local opportunities, because it cannot be uniformed here, because, for example, in the Upper Tárkány, there is a 14 m radius, roofed circle that does not even have a side - it has served the primary school there for the greatest joy of children and parents for ten years. And where there will be other means, all we need is to be able to adapt them flexibly to life. Because, of course, the school needs to know about the world, it can't leave the world, that's true, but our two hands are also for -- not to shake it in a fist or even put it up -- to shape what it is worth to shape. And I think that this step, this decision, even if it is difficult to go forward, is going to bring into the system a paradigm that we've been waiting for a long time ago, and which, I hope, will continue on several sites, because this view, it has a wider horizon. Because such an attitude, which strives for a good state, has not only one focus, but several things, if you will, to be considered holistically. So I think, and I hope, that this thing goes on for all of us. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2016-11-29-92	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr László Teleki, MSZP Group. Here you go, Congressman. [[15.00]]
u2016-11-29-93	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear Parliament, I think it is a very important debate day today, because it is possible to talk about all aspects of education. Thus, a few days after the Employment Debate Day, it should be noted that, on the other hand, at this debate day, there was a great deal of talk about the Roma. However, I think that when it comes to them, it is said that they do not perceive the problem of the Roma in Hungary today. I would like to start by saying what I said a few days ago, that my good-looking fellow Members of Parliament should also feel the weight of the Roma socio-cultural environment, on which Balázs Ander, who is not here, explained where they come from, what it is made up of. Let us not forget, however, that 90 percent of the Roma were active earners, about 80 percent of the Roma population completed eight classes, about 30 percent were able to go to vocational training and finish. So that's all there is to this social, sociocultural context. If there is a possibility, then Gypsyism in Hungary will not abuse the situation it receives. This does not mean that we do not need to change, but we need to give opportunities to change. If this opportunity is not given to the Roma community in Hungary, whether in employment or in education, then it is impossible to talk about the integration of the Roma community in Hungary. So I said this sequence of numbers because I wanted to show that if there was a possibility, it would break out and break out of the trap that Roma society is in. The situation in education. Many people have talked about it, and I am pleased that many people have said not only as negative, but also as positive, how to break out, let us say, the largest minority in Hungary, the Roma minority, from the trap of inequality of opportunity. I'll tell you a few things. In any case, I think it is very important that if the line that has passed over the past period would be corrected at some level, because when I told the Secretary of State last week that the school obligation had been removed from 18 to 16 years, the possibility of Roma in Hungary was greatly impaired to remain in the school system. That is why we are talking about nearly 60 percent of them leaving the educational institutions prematurely, because the Roma are precisely the target groups who are almost told to leave them and indicate as an exclamation mark that they can leave the school. From this point on, the other step, it is very important that another law has been put in sync, that public employment can begin from the age of 16. So you can see from it what they want. It is not in education that the majority of Roma in Hungary and the very many non-roms in the poverty trap are being kept in education, but on the contrary, they want to lead those who do not want to be in public employment. Therefore, you have a responsibility to bring this question up, or to leave it as a question mark, as a question mark in society, that this is good. I think it's definitely not good, because more than 60 percent of Hungary's gypsy population will be lost, and it will be damned forever, because it will be set up for social assistance. But otherwise, the government gives Jobbik a very good breeding ground to tell them that Gypsy can't get from one to the other in any case. So if that's what you want, then government policy goes in the right direction. I think that you should change this policy in order to see that you are doing something. When you look at the international outlook, you can see that there are two important things. In recent years, there has been an infringement procedure that has been published for Hungary in relation to the Roma. Here, in particular, the segmented educational situation could be mentioned, which is still significant. Nearly 20 percent of Gypsies are able to attend a segmented educational institution. That's ten percent more than it's ever been in the past. Then what are we talking about if you want to keep this 20 percent in segregational educational institutions? So you have a responsibility, not because the European Union has made this a point, but because it is a question of Hungarian citizens, and part of Hungary cannot be disadvantaged in education only because it was born to ruin. So let the body of the nation be the same gypsy as the overall Hungarian society. I think that this is a perfectly legitimate expectation, because all Roma in Hungary have Hungarian citizenship, so there should not be a double citizen in this country who was born here. The other is the Council of Europe report. The discrimination of Roma in Hungary has become systematic. This was announced a year ago by a commission from the Council of Europe. Secretary of State, consider why this is, why the discrimination of Gypsies in employment, education and health in Hungary has become systemic. Such a thing cannot be allowed to happen in Hungary today. Once again, not because the European Union has indicated this, but because that is what we see, who are out there in life in practice, and we see what is happening. So after these two international levels, I think that the biggest problem of the Roma today is that they are hopeless. They are hopeless, they see rejection, they see that they have no vision, and they see unemployment waiting for them in the event that they want the career that the political part of the majority society draws for them. Therefore, I think that drawing up a vision must be a government responsibility, whether it can actually reach the end of the eight primary schools, whether it can actually get to a vocational school, and whether it can actually get there to graduate from college or university. What's the key to this? I think it's very important that the segmented education I've been talking about has to be eliminated because there's no way out. From there, there is only one way, and that is the path of the public workers, and there is no more, and then it keeps the gypsy in the employment trap or in the relief trap. The other very important thing, I think, is that we should also talk about the kindergarten care that you have praised, and I would also like to emphasise it, as an opposition representative, I think it is good. I think it is very important that you have made it mandatory, because an integration process can start from the smallest age. Yeah, but they didn't create the other leg next to it, which is where it is, so that they can get those kids to bed, or there are no kindergarten teachers in the most disadvantaged area who would care for these kids in kindergarten. So from now on, you have to do two things to keep the law. One is that the number of kindergarten educators should be increased, and the other is that the number of seats should be increased, because if not, it does not matter whether this law has been passed or not, in the most disadvantaged area, those who want to apply this law cannot apply it. And the other part, I think, is very important that the school programs that you have started, I think, are completely okay, and that has been started by the previous government and you have carried on, which is very good. However, I would like to tell Mr Secretary of State that during the last week, civil society organisations have organised a protest because they have not received the school scholarship or have not been reappointed. I understand that this issue will be resolved in a matter of days. But I would also like to know whether civil society organisations, ethnic authorities, can really count on the school programme to carry on the very good things that could otherwise be seen. The third in this round is next to the kindergarten, next to the school, the scholarship schemes. That's what I've been telling the Secretary of State. I would like to point out once again that it is a very big problem that a lawnmower principle has simply cut off the possibility of a public foundation. I am talking about the Hungarian Gypsies Public Foundation. Secretary of State, it was possible to trace how much money someone had received from that system. It was possible to monitor the results of studies. You could follow how the kid could reach from elementary school to college if he wanted to get there. Today, there really is a source in a big hat, but we do not see how people get this amount. We would like to see how Roma pupils can get from one to two primary schools to the university, to the highest educational institution. I think you should say "a" or "b" in this, because if you don't, we still don't know whether the educational situation of the Roma in Hungary is improving or even worse than it was, but from different researches that we believe or don't, we see where they lead. Therefore, I would consider it important. [[15.10]] Teachers, I think we need to say a few words. It is certainly very important, and I would also like to thank you on behalf of the Hungarian Socialist Party for the work of teachers who teach, teach, teach, and undertake every day to deal with children and, in this case, even Roma children, because I think that we politicians can be very weak to say nicely here, or just as we know, to say what the situation is, but we cannot appreciate those who are in the area every day and try to deal with and raise our children. Therefore, I think it is absolutely important to point out that we should thank teachers who deal with disadvantaged children as educators from this point too. Last but not least, it should also be said that, Mr State Secretary, they do not follow the trend and the legislation that you have established. So far, as a maintainer of the local minority self-governments, the local government has been in a cooperation relationship, when it was written, and when it was spoken. And today that the districts have taken over, I would like to point out, Mr State Secretary, that there is no connection between the national governments and the districts, there is absolutely no written means, and I dare say this calmly, and the biggest problem is that they do not make it general. Because it is possible to talk about an individual case that there are some cases, yes, there is, but it is not common, just as the law otherwise stipulated that the local government maintainer is obliged to cooperate with the municipalities in these matters, then much would be resolved. Why do I say that? I am saying this because I want you to think that you are not dealing with the lives of Roma and disadvantaged people in a complex way, because I think it is very important that you try not only to focus on children, which is most important, but also to put parents in a position. The mailing system, let's face it, has failed as much as a lot of things. That is why I would ask the Secretary of State why it is not possible to restart the evening mailing systems that are being made visible in the settlements, because today they are looking for where 8 classes can be completed, where to go to further education, to finish classes 6-7-8, and I think that this is a very big mistake, because if something is, it will certainly repel the opportunity for our children's parents to rise to a higher level, so a process can start. Therefore, if you only want to highlight the child, it is very difficult to do so, so I said that you have to deal with it in its complexity, because if you give the parent an opportunity, then the child will learn even better, or vice versa: the child will be taken over very often by the parent, and from then on the parent will start learning to show his child that he wants to get from A to B. Therefore, I would consider it very important for the government to address this issue in order to make this form of education visible. I would add that, by the way, they should not only achieve results in the completion of the 8 grade of primary school, but they should also build up graduation systems, because we don't just think that 8 generals should be completed by a ruin or a cumulative disadvantaged person, but should also have the opportunity to graduate, because then he could have the chance to study further in higher education institutions. Therefore, we do not see a continuous system in this whole picture, and I think it is the biggest problem for most Roma communities today that it cannot be handled and we cannot see how we can handle it, how the government can handle it. In this, you have a very big responsibility to be able to deal with the complexity of education, from adults to children or from adults to adults, because if you don't, then I think there will be a very big mistake and very big failure. Do not leave the Roma in Hungary on the side of the road, because the body of the nation is the Roma society in Hungary, so from now on they have responsibility for how education will develop in the next period. I very much hope that the few thoughts that I have said are open to the ears, and that what is the biggest problem of Gypsyism is that it sees rejection, sees the non-existence of the vision, and that public employment is just in front of its eyes - all of them should be changed in order for the Roma community to become a valuable member of Hungary. Thank you very much for your kind attention.
u2016-11-29-94	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congressman Gyula Vantara of the Fidesz Group.
u2016-11-29-95	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, During today, the politicians of Fidesz-KDNP often said that Fidesz-KDNP has the first child. The government's goal is to give Hungarian children and students competitive knowledge, and teachers are to be honored for their daily work. We have the children's interests in defining the goals of public education, in establishing the conditions for operation and in future decisions. The issue of children is more important than the use of some politicians to create a mood; politics has no place in school. In view of the issue of children, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the child is the first and allow me to say a few words about the sustainability of the environment, education, health promotion and prevention of crime. Environmental education is part of education and education in public education institutions, and one of the priority areas of the National Basic Training Plan is sustainability education, where environmental education and sustainability are presented within a number of educational areas. For schools, there are a number of optional programmes and teaching aids that are consistent with sustainability, environmental education and environmental problems in several subjects. A number of publications are also available to teachers in schools to acquire knowledge. Education and education programmes with a multi-annual history in the field of public education will also continue in order to strengthen the awareness and thinking of the environment, such as the Green Kindergarten, the Eco-school programme and network, the Forest kindergarten and school programme, the GLOBE and BISEL programmes. With the development of the Green Kindergarten programme and network, environmental education is planned and organised at the level of pre-school education and education. In kindergarten education, an environmentally friendly approach has been at the centre of interest for a long time. The creation of kindergarten teachers' workshops has been established where exemplary results have been achieved on pedagogical methodology and a material system of preschool environmental education has been developed. At the end of the last year, there were 785 kindergartens, 52 ever green kindergartens in the country, with a total of 837 kindergarten assignments. I consider it particularly important that the mandatory task of educational institutions is to introduce full health improvement, which is regulated in detail in the EMMI Regulation on the operation of educational and educational institutions and the use of the names of public education institutions. The key and prominent tasks of full health development are: healthy nutrition, daily physical education and exercise, physical and mental health development, behavioural dependence, prevention of the consumption of addictive agents, prevention of abuse and school violence, accident prevention and first aid and finally personal hygiene. These areas are covered by the tasks. This also includes the transfer of knowledge on healthy nutrition. As has been mentioned before, I would like to mention here that the Mintamenza programme, which was launched from the Province of Peace, aimed at renewing the children's reception. In the spirit of the programme, kitchen technologies have been renewed, the amount of salt and sugar is reduced and this work continues even more effectively through professional cooperation agreements. [[15.20]] As regards crime prevention, we must also actively address the prevention of aggression in educational institutions and the use of various psychoactive substances and drugs. School crime prevention consultants are actively involved in this. The programme was established thanks to close cooperation between the Ministry of Interior and the EMMI and is implemented under the coordination of the National Police Headquarters. Currently, there are some 154 consultants in the study districts where the presence of police officers was indicated on the basis of a preliminary claim assessment. Advisors operate in schools unarmed and civilian with their own work plan adapted to the institution's annual work plan. Their task is primarily to help prevention and educators in this field. ORFK and EMMI's designated staff regularly evaluate the implementation of the task and take the necessary actions on the basis of feedback from field consultants. Mr President, Dear House, Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of Fidesz.]]
u2016-11-29-96	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr Sebestyén, Member of the Jobbik Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2016-11-29-97	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, I would like to talk primarily about social work at school. I remember that, back in the early two thousand years, it was formulated to be school social workers who would have done an alloying activity, because in addition to school social work, it would have been their job to organise leisure time. Well, that didn't work out. Then, a few years ago, the government decree decided for itself that the institution of social work in schools should be set up. This, of course, has been slipping against itself for years, and when it did, this was conditional in the law, and not in the form in which the profession or educational institutions would have expected it. In the first instance, it was stated in the law that children's welfare centers could perform this task in schools. This has changed since then and the conditional mode has ceased, but there are problems with its implementation. It is enough to look only at the problem of the child welfare centre providing it, but in what form and what resources it receives, but it is already questionable, because if you want to carry out various activities within the framework of social work at school, you have to apply for this money, and this amount is either received or not. This has a number of concerns, and there are several concerns. One is why it is necessary to apply for an activity, the other is that there will be a sharp gap between certain child welfare centres and school social work in certain settlements, because the child welfare centers that have always wanted to add something plus and do as much work as possible will, of course, apply, and there may be settlements where, by keeping just the minimum of legislation, they will fulfil this important task. What, on the other hand, would be a saving solution? I think that the saving solution is what I said at the beginning, which in the early years of two thousand came up as an idea for plus one person employed in educational institutions - I do not think that this would be such a burden for the education system - who would perform his social work in one person in the institution and, as was planned in the early two thousand years, would also be a kind of leisure organizer and employment organizer in school. We have very good training, social educators are being trained in more and more colleges, and they are the ones who can combine social child protection and pedagogical careers in one person, and they can perform this function in schools. Why do I say that? They are constantly trying to strengthen the child protection signalling system by making legislative changes and making explicit statements. One of the important tools for this would be for a school social worker to be in a full-time educational institution, to know the children, to know their circumstances, to see if any change might lead to danger or bad conditions at home, to make it champagne, to form a community with the organisation of events and leisure, to organise community life at school, and to provide social and mental assistance to the children there not only in the event of danger, but also in other cases. In addition to social work at school, I would like to draw attention to one important problem. My fellow artists have already talked about the real national consultation. During the real national consultation, I visited secondary schools, including agricultural secondary schools, because I graduated as a veterinary and animal health technician at an agricultural school and there was a problem. It is true that these schools have already been transferred to the Ministry of Agriculture, but education, public education laws, laws and other rules apply to them in the same way. They are the secondary schools for which it is expected to be expected, and they are usually able to achieve that they operate their teaching economies in a profitable way, and we could also say that in many cases they generate a high-profile profit, but this high-profile profit is usually used by the maintainer for maintenance costs. In fact, all a school operating a model economy does is make savings for its maintainer. We don't think it's a saving condition. That is why we had a proposal for a decision in which we asked that in this case the school receive a higher amount of the profits generated for free use, from which it can even develop the economy, or other developments that can make schooling easier or easier to go to. Why would that be important? It would be important because schools would be more motivated to become more modern and more efficient in production, so that the growing generation will not embrace just learned technologies, but will learn the technologies to achieve the greatest possible profit and the greatest possible crop in agriculture. Therefore, I believe that it is a legitimate expectation for these schools to be able to decide on a greater part of the profits generated from hard work, for what purpose and how it is spent. Thank you for listening. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2016-11-29-98	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Statement will be made by Ms Anita Heringes, MSZP Group.
u2016-11-29-99	Thank you very much for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, I am very sorry that my fellow Members from Fidesz-KDNP have run out in the line, so now we will only have opposition speeches. I would like to respond to many speakers. Of course, it's so fitting and appropriate that when they're here, we should respond to them, but after most of them are out of the room, I'll decide not to tell you who said it, but I'd respond to it in case the thought gets to their ears. We have often listened to this day hours ago to do everything in education for children, because everything has to be about making the future of children better, everything has to happen for them. Ladies and gentlemen, I think everyone in this Chamber agrees that the child must be the first in education. It's just that over the past few years, we've felt that you've been trying to raise children with the same pattern, the same shape, the same size, the same color, so that the same children come out of education at the end. But the input is different, everyone comes from a different medium, a different family, a different social layer, or a village or a city, and brings someone else from home. From this point on, it is not possible to stick skateboards to children, but to focus on which child brought what, where to start its development, what to give to him in addition to having opportunities in the future, and not to determine the future of a child from where he came from, but to be able to add extra, and to provide surface and opportunity to all talented children. Ladies and gentlemen, The reason I think it is good is that once every six months we have an educational debate, because we may be able to shape your thinking as an opposition representative about education. [[15.30]] I think it's good to tell you as many times as possible about the mistakes that we see at home in receiving lessons and in everyday life in settlements. Which come up against us, when we talk to the population, we talk to the kids, and we talk to the students. One of their fellow Members brought up the school catering and the action that my colleague, Ildiko Bangóné Borbély, wanted to draw attention to. That, fellow Members, it is not possible to change the feeding from one moment to the next, forcing the child to do what you have imagined. This should only be done gradually. After all, education is something that can be really accomplished in degrees. You cannot immediately take away all the spices from him and say that only this meal method can be accepted, only this food must be eaten, my child. 'Cause the kid comes from home with an eating style, and it can only be fine-tuned in steps, not the way the government did. I resent the fact that the children were very pleased with this mass catering reform, this mensa reform. After all, the schools and companies said that much more food went back, it was the soups that mostly went back to the kitchen, because the basis of the soup was that it had to be spicy, tasty to be loved and loved by the child. Of course, it's not a good thing that a kid eats a lot of sugar. But I think we know very well about children that they take in most of the fluids, and one of the most important questions is that they bring in plenty of fluids if they have a tasty soup that they like. And if sometimes it's sweet, I don't think it's that bad. There is also a need for slow and gentle coordination of children's meals, and in every step of education, I think slow and fine-tuning is needed. Taking down the obligation to teach for 16 years, I think is one of the biggest crimes committed against the next generation. After all, the person who gets into the community service program today is dependent on a stagnation. After all, it is not the kind of training people who get into the public work programme that can make a meaningful move forward, in which they can develop, in which they really feel that they are important to society. At a time when there is normally a shortage of labour in some areas, I think that training should be provided to these people to compensate for the shortage of labour. By the way, they should be taken to vocational training and given training that they can then make a normal living, not from community service, but from their profession. On the other hand, I think it's a sin what you're doing today in vocational training, and it's a sin that you don't have credit for vocational training today. Because that would be really good, what I told you the other day, what my father told me. In the old days, it worked that if there was a wealthy skilled worker in a settlement who could do a lot of work, make a lot of money, support his family from his profession, then interestingly, most young people in the village were put into that profession because they believed that it was a good way to make a living. But then he had credit for that profession, he had acceptance, and they looked up to a good skilled worker. Today, people feel that they are not properly paid in this area, or otherwise do not have the credit, they do not have the acceptance in the settlement that they used to have. 'Cause we have to give back the faith of this career, by the way. This would be a great opportunity if people who are in a community service programme could receive training that, let's say, in a regular job, they would be able to stand in their place and not be condemned to stagnation. Ladies and gentlemen, We've heard a lot about the digital education strategy, and we've heard a lot about the need to teach things that are really important, and that's for the future. My colleague has told me many times that you can't do that without, say, 54 IT classes for a seventh grade class in a semester, and a physical education class in 180. It doesn't work that way, so it doesn't lead to the future, it doesn't lead to digital education and not to development, but just stagnation in this area as well. I think we have something to change, we have something to improve in education, especially. I often feel that the child is somewhere ahead of us on this issue. I believe that you really shouldn't put labels on these kids, but you should listen to their opinions, you should listen to their thoughts. Because what I really see is that I could still learn with the Zsolnay method in elementary school, and my parents still had the opportunity to choose the method to educate their children. The basis of the Zsolnay method was that they taught children to think, express opinions and talk about everything. These children, who are in the education system today, can only be taught by one method. There is no choice, fellow Members. But every child is different, every child deserves a different education, and then I think we can make the best of everyone. Thank you very much.
u2016-11-29-100	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, For a two-minute speech, I give the floor to Mr László Kucsák, Fidesz Group.
u2016-11-29-101	Mr President, Thank you for the floor. I wasn't planning on speaking yet, since Mr Secretary of State is still available at the end of the debate, and many things will be discussed as he did at the beginning. But the dear Congresswoman Anita Heringes complained that we had run out of pro-government representatives. We're here. Obviously, Congresswoman was also paying attention to the fact that, as I indicated in the keynote speech, my fellow Members spoke factually in relation to so many professions. In each round, the response was also made to all that was worth doing, and to all that was not necessarily done, but still had to be done according to the rules of politics. So what I would like to say to you is how education is done in schools, there is no commitment, Congresswoman. [[Anita Beringes: Only in textbooks.]] That's not true. You come up with an opinion that I think is offensive to teachers. The principle of freedom of teaching remains assured, and education is not a question of a textbook. I've quoted my excellent high school history teacher, but then I'll do it again, who, back in the '80s, always finished his history lesson, a great history lesson, by the way, and if you still think about it, read from this many pages of the textbook to so many pages. So it wasn't just a textbook that defined life, and a lot of our teachers in pedagogical culture use it every day. And on the subject of trust, confidentiality and other matters, I can tell you, remember who wanted to bring the climate of distrust into the schools. You. By imposing a confidentiality obligation, which they backed out of because the Constitutional Court would have brainwashed him. That's when they made the eagle. That's when they stepped out of it, Congresswoman. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-11-29-102	Thank you very much, Congressman. I give the floor to Congresswoman Anita Heringes for a two-minute speech. Here you go.
u2016-11-29-103	Ladies and gentlemen, From the equatorial book, just like you said, you can teach it differently if the teacher has time and energy, and we thank them for having time and energy to give extra information to the children. 'Cause if the kids had to learn from the straight textbook, they'd really have to be from the box. Fortunately, well-educated educators know how to mold a child, but this is not due to education today, nor to the education system you have created. And one more thing I would like to draw your attention to. You have promised 72 new gymnasiums in recent years, and by spring, March, all 72 gymnasiums and schools will be completed. 13 of these 72 have been completed so far, and we are now in winter. We know that 72 won't be ready until March. They've fought hard in most schools so far to see where they do their daily physical education. Now that they can see in most settlements that it won't be finished by March, they won't know where to keep the lessons. At least at the ministerial hearing Minister Seszták said that in most cases the classrooms and swimming pools are not ready because the municipalities themselves designated land and land for the swimming pool and the gym which was either not owned by the municipality or was not allowed to be drained. [[15.40]] It also shows that there is an unthinkable system in this. It wasn't premeditated where, as well as how to do these things. I therefore believe that this is also a presentation of the education system itself. Thank you very much.
u2016-11-29-104	Thank you, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Hungarian Zoltán... - pardon! I was running the system a little fast. I give the floor to Congressman Bence Rétvári, KDNP, for a two-minute speech. Here you go, Congressman.
u2016-11-29-105	Thank you very much. Thank you very much, Mr Zoltán Magyar, for your patience. I'm only holding you back from speaking for 120 seconds. I would only suggest to the Hungarian Socialist Party that their period, whether I look at gym constructions or any other area, is actually a period of invention, lack of money. Obviously, it is now possible to bring out stories that have been taken out in one or another, that everyday physical education here or there is not yet a complete infrastructure, but the construction of swimming pools, gyms and classrooms is taking place at a higher rate than before. You do not stand up to the fact that anywhere in the socialist period was built a gym that would have been suitable for the movement of students. He is just trying to get involved somewhere in something that, Madam honourable Member, is supported by 73 percent of parents. One of the most supported public education measures of the Fidesz-KDNP government is that we obviously increase children's knowledge, but we also increase their physical stamina and concentration capacity by allowing them to attend physical education classes every day. I believe that this has now been introduced in Hungary, but in the coming decades there will be similar initiatives in many other European or Western North Atlantic countries and will be introduced. These are for the benefit of the students. I think we need to look at this: do we want the physical condition of the students to be better, healthier, or, as you have done in your own time, they just want to withdraw money from education [[István Tukacs: We don't want it on purpose!]] Just like they did. In addition to declining GDP, up to 10-17 percent could be extracted between 2008 and 2010 when GDP itself fell by 7 percent a year. I don't think the schoolteachers are going to cry back, nor the 15,000 teachers that you dismissed, nor those who could stay there, have received less than a month's salary. Thank God, now there has been a period of development in the field of public education. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties. István Tukacs applauded: Bravo!]]
u2016-11-29-106	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to MEP Zoltán Magyar, Jobbik Group. Here you go.
u2016-11-29-107	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, We have now been discussing problems with the education system for almost seven hours. I'd like to bring a local case to the end. The village Iván is located in the southern part of my constituency, and the technical conditions are far from being suitable for quality education in school. We're talking about two boilers that could heat up at school. They are nearly 40 years old; one has a hole and the other is so effective that above the pipe on which the heat enters the building, the snow melts in order, because the insulation is so damaged. Students are already forced to sit in a coat in the classrooms. What if there are serious negatives? I think you can imagine that, let alone think, you can't be there, but you can't even stay still in a situation like this. I really don't know what this settlement has done for you, for example, because there has been a tender for this, but the school hasn't won any money for it. I would sincerely like to hear your opinion, the Secretary of State, on what the government's plan is for young schools, because communication is constantly about their protection and maintenance, but in practice we are faced with such situations when it is almost impossible to expect quality education. When parents asked him how to teach under such circumstances, Fidesz, the school principal, whom he liked and printed in the area, said with a noble simplicity that the child could be taken from here, not required to come here. That's how you try to deal with this situation as a school principal. It is quite amazing and well described how Fidesz stands on this issue. I would also like a substantive answer to that. Thank you. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2016-11-29-108	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Statement by Mr István Tukacs, MSZP Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2016-11-29-109	Thank you for the floor, thank you for the opportunity, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, You are a hero of all the swings of this debate day, and we are honored to have some of your partners working outside the wallet and the wallet. I would like to talk about three issues: equality of opportunities in the current education system; I would like to talk about the quantity of curriculum; and I would like to talk about whether we can achieve a qualitative change in the current governance system in education. Ladies and gentlemen, I will certainly not reveal too much of a secret, but the basic idea of the establishment of the CLIK is that there is a uniform quality and uniform quality of education everywhere, not only has it not been fulfilled yet, but there are not even traces of it. I am forced to say this because it is still possible to tell in every medium or larger city which school is the elite and which school is the poor; which school is the influential and which school is not. I therefore believe that not only the small settlement schools in the situation described by my fellow Member, Zoltán, are suffering from this situation, but can be found everywhere in the country. One of the basic ideas of public governance was to raise education and quality to roughly the same level everywhere. I have agreed with the part that has dealt with, quite rightly for me, that qualifications, education are also a competitiveness issue and not only a tool for individual prosperity, but also a tool for the competitiveness of our country, but I still have to say that it is not being achieved or that it is not being achieved that some level of quality is being achieved. In the current education system, the possibility of elites and less elites - to put it mildly - remains unchanged. I would also like to talk to you, Mr Secretary of State, about whether, in my personal experience, students in public education learn various things, although not understandable by me, whether the amount of material to be learned has decreased and whether the knowledge acquired has become more practical than the knowledge given to them by the institution. I think there are still delays in this. I believe that there is still much to be done in this regard. After all, if this debate is not about opposition parties scorning the government and vice-versa, then we should really talk about these issues, whether there is any change in this. I can only judge on the basis of epithelials, I don't see it. Having come home from school with an unalterably large amount of material, children have to wrestle at home, and I do not think that this would be too beneficial for the education system, which would not be aimed at tripping up the amount of material, but at learning to teach and passing on a variety of modern knowledge. The third thing I want to talk to you about is whether you are satisfied with this institutional maintenance system in the education sector and those working there. I do not think that parents would be excited about how they were controlled, but I do think that in the municipalities where schools were maintained in the old days, parents had a more personal relationship with the maintainer himself. He knew where to reach her, where to negotiate with her if necessary, and where to make a difference. Therefore, I think that his closeness and not only closeness to the parent, but in some way his attachment to the parent, is immensely important. This is not a prestigious argument as to whether or not the local government should own the school. The education system and public education benefit from a parent's and maintainer's exchange of views. I mentioned an example once before. Unfortunately, I was forced to talk in Parliament about a huge storm taking one of the rooftops of a school in our county, and it stood there for months and months, almost a year without a roof for all kinds of administrative reasons I didn't understand. That's not possible with a municipal maintainer. The mayor who doesn't get this done in a month is going to the next election. It is that simple, I think, and it has nothing to do with professionalism, because, let's be honest, it is not possible to say that in the municipalities the professional apparatus could not have been superior to the situation and could not have achieved an outstanding level. This was especially true in larger cities. [[15.50]] At the same time, let me deny the view that the municipalities were poor maintainers, that they were in debt because of the institutions, and so on. I've had experience with the operation of local governments, and I've been a major city deputy mayor for a long time. The majority of the municipalities are not indebted to their institutions, especially to their educational institutions; the causes of their indebtedness must be looked for in other ways, but this is a side line, and I do not want to deal with it. Dear Secretary of State, So, in these three cases, I wanted to raise the question of where the government was headed on the issue of equality of opportunity, the amount of curriculum and maintenance matters. What I do not understand, however, is, and let me now have a final sentence on how, in such an important debate, the other Secretary of State of the Ministry, who calls himself Parliament, can still be caught up in the past eight years. Dear Secretary of State. Can't you quit? You're a monomaniac, so you can't stop thinking about it, I told you, like Moricka. It would be better to talk about content matters, if possible, I would advocate this, and I would do so in the next part of the debate, which is now almost a rabbit's tail. Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Thank you for the opportunity.
u2016-11-29-110	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári in a two-minute time frame. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2016-11-29-111	I would like to thank the Group of the Hungarian Socialist Party for wanting to deal with content issues in the last 58 seconds of the 7:00 debate day. Thank you very much.
u2016-11-29-112	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, I am asking if anyone else would like to speak in the course of this debate. [[There's no candidate.]] I don't see any contact. We have reached the end of the speeches. I give the floor to the Secretary of State László Palkovics, who is holding the summary and the closing word today. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2016-11-29-113	Thank you very much, Mr President. This debate today, I think, was a very good debate. I was a little sorry that the same questions came up here several times because of the exchange of persons in different factions, so I would like to answer the last few questions briefly, and I actually think that this could be the conclusion of today's discussion, because everyone has been concerned with topics that have practically marked this debate since 9 a.m. Congresswoman Agnes Kunhalmi has said some things that I think may be misunderstood. Two thirds of teachers don't say they can't use these books. I suggest that Congresswoman take a close look at the OFI survey she refers to here. This concerned experimental textbooks, and some of the teachers said that if those errors were corrected, they would then use them. So that was accurate, just to be precise, if you quote something. In the case of ecclesiastical institutions - I am glad that Congressman Hiller is leaving right now because I wanted to show off my historical knowledge [[Defiance.]] Not going into this issue in detail, of course, just to talk about numbers again - 14-15 percent of students attend church schools at the moment. If you look at the proportion of schools held in church between the two world wars in the Hungarian school system - and I think we are not talking about the Dark Ages - this is about 40 percent, which then decreased to 10-12 until 1947 and then to 10 schools. So I think we're talking about a different scale here. That's all I wanted to say, my historical knowledge here is exhausted as an engineer. [[Dr. István Hiller, vice-president of the Parliament, takes the chair.]] The KLIK operating method and the debt generation of KLIK: KLIK does not generate debt. The CLIK will pay for its costs and otherwise ensure its operation. There's also a question here about Jobbik's side, but what this particular case is, obviously I don't know, but if I get your details, I'd be very happy to answer it. One thing is certain, that the heating system must be fixed in order to work at school, that does not need to be applied for, that is the maintenance's job, and that if the maintainer does not do so, then it is clear who is responsible. It is clear now, and from next January it will be quite clear that the government is responsible for it. This responsibility will be borne by the government, so if someone has this type of problem, then this is the district centre, and it is obviously the Ministry's responsibility. The municipal operation, that the broken roof was immediately repaired and, let's say, not repaired at another school, and I would just like to say to Congressman that the roof of the Veres Pálné High School was broken down, it was not state reserve, it was municipal, it was broken down and it remained that way for a long time. So, obviously, there are examples and examples, which is all I wanted to draw attention to. Or the collapsing stage of Herman Ottó High School in Miskolc, it was also run by local governments; so there are different types of examples. So I think that, in contrast to the operation of the KLIK, as the respondents - here I referred to a survey earlier - have advanced the confidence that this type of system works better, wait for it, the test of the pudding is eating, here the government clearly assumes the responsibility to be able to operate this system. As regards the volume of the curriculum, which has also been raised by the Member, and by Mr Tukacs, it is important to understand what this amount of curriculum means and how it is combined. There are four elements of this system, one of which is the National Basics. If you have to imagine this graphically, it means a circle about this size. [[He's showing it to me.]] So it covers an area this size. In addition to the National Basic Study Plan, the framework curriculum is published, which means a much wider issue, and this is accompanied by a school curriculum. These three come together, and then the clock load that children face. That it can't be changed in two months, I think it's trivial for pretty much everyone, it's a functioning system, it takes a longer time for this new National Basics Plan. Within this, we have created the opportunities that we hold on to the 10 per cent of the expectations mentioned by the Member, which are 30-40 per cent different from those of the type, but that must be the decision of the teachers. The regulation allows this, we have given support to it, but the teacher's decision to do what it does is to teach the material more deeply, but less, or to stay. Once again, the government cannot expect such solutions, because the teacher is in the classroom, he teaches, so he sees how his class progresses. What is meant to judge the digital education strategy, obviously my opinion is in line with the opinion of the Secretary of State, I think it is a very good strategy, but it could not obviously be a different kind of expectation, because we were involved in creating it. But if we look at the opinions of external experts, and here quite external experts, not Hungarian experts, such as Microsoft's experts, they said that this strategy in this form is a benchmark-type strategy, compared to that of other countries. We agree that, of course, a strategy is good if we implement it and break it down. Madam Congresswoman asked whether we would really only take infrastructure elements here. No, they are important, because they are necessary for the operation of such a strategy, but here the main point is in terms of content improvements, on the digital platforms that we can introduce in education. The next issue, the training and further training of teachers, is a very important element of these proposals, in addition to the fact that a significant improvement is also taking place. For Ander Balázs, I would like to raise the question of vocational school. I absolutely agree that we really need to put things in place. The vocational school is a very good institution, it's exactly what we thought it would be. Here, basically, our vocational training institutions have three problems, but this has developed in the last 25 years, and this needs to be changed. One of the problems is the lack of teachers. 55 years is the average age of teachers in vocational training, and if you look at how students have applied for vocational education and training at universities in the last year, they have practically not applied. The process of replacing it very quickly has just begun. We have created and reconfigured scholarships to compensate for this. And the other is the means of these schools. Here dual training is a very good form, but, as you said, it is not available everywhere. The vocational school itself or the vocational high school or the vocational high school must have the equipment park that we can otherwise afford. We've chosen other solutions here before, and they can now be put together. Everyone here remembers the different Tisks, regional training centers, where various tools appeared. The only thing they didn't do was use them in secondary vocational schools. We're putting these together now, and we're going to use these tools, which will provide the fleet of tools in the school itself - not in the company - that it needs to be good. On the other hand, as far as teachers are concerned, and I think we also agree on this, they are one of the most difficult tasks in these schools. This must be taken into account in some form, so these teachers, I think, must be paid better, must be designed to strengthen the prestige of this teaching profession. Here, of course, income is just an element, another element is to have the support in which it has its discipline, its methodological abilities, and it really feels that it is a member of a community that is not at the moment certain that it is available. [[16.00]] For the day-to-day physical education class, Mr President, I would like to say so, but in the meantime, Mr Rétvári mentioned that 73 percent of families say that something has finally happened to everyday physical education, as an innovative element. 40 percent of children have movement coordination problems, and everyday physical education can help. Yeah, it does have gym needs, they're built, they're made, and there's a lot of other needs. For example, if you look at the development of school framework plans and sports framework plans, there are a range of options that can be used. Complete manuals have been prepared, so there is a lot of support for schools. Mr Teleki and I talked about this on labour market issues the other day, that children leave school at the age of 16. No one tells these kids to leave school, and even the opposite is the intention, let's get to the point where they don't want to leave it. The problem here is that someone who goes to vocational school, for example, has a family pressure that tells them to leave it there and do something else. There is, of course, a lot to change, I think, the kind of positive motivation here is to finish school, continue, and create a set of conditions for this. He asked me what kind of solutions there were. I would very much like to list some of these that exist and work: children's homes,. Safe start, children's homes, not only with children, but with their parents we are trying to provide such an environment. It was about kindergarten education. I think it's a very serious thing that works in this direction. The textbook support, catering, scholarship programmes, the Travel Scholarship Program, in this is also our program of the "Travel to a diploma" type. János Arany talent program: HUF 4.2 billion will be spent this year alone to catch up with children in difficulty but otherwise talented. Programme Roma Girls: Prevention of early school leaving. School programs: there was a question, someone came up, yes, it will be written out, so what we said the other day, that's how it's gonna be. Christian Roma College Network, Roma College, access to and completion of higher education, they are all active programs. Mr Sebestyén Csító raised the question of the school social work facility. That's what we'd like to go on with. We would also like this function to appear in the school district centers, and there would be someone at the school district center who would be dealing with the segregation of the schools that belong to it, for example, the preventive cases leading to children's early retirement. These will be created, and in particular the appearance of social professionals will be strengthened. We have money for it, we have to show professionals at school. This is definitely an important program. All I want to say to Anita Heringes about the prestige of professional work is that sometimes I don't really understand that when we say that we shouldn't train skilled workers then we shouldn't be a country of assembly plants and everyone should go to college, and now he's asking us to make the prestige of the professional work. That's exactly what it was like to strengthen vocational training. So I think we need to decide what we want. I think I wanted to answer about these questions. In closing, I'd say I started the introductory speech on what makes a school good. I would just like to focus on the third element, because I think that teacher training should be, teacher further education, methodological knowledge, are trivialities. What's important is the school's ability to create a chance. That was the second part of the debate. I think, in terms of constructions, and this is not always explicit, but from being good at education in a small village where, by the way, there may be only lower education and kindergarten, because this is an important element of the village or that community, and by the way, if, in the upper school, let's say, in the neighbouring village, a school bus takes the child, because there is better training, and the parent feels that the child is safe, then that's okay. These are the cases that will be strengthened in the coming period, so we would like to have your support in this, too. Thank you. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-11-29-114	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Welcome. That concludes the political debate. We now have a political debate. [[Defiance.]] Dear Parliament, A political debate on the possibility of men retiring after 40 years of employment, initiated by Mr Tamás Sneider, Vice-President and fellow Members of the Parliament. Opinion on the initiative of the political debate V/12901. was given to them. Dear Parliament, I call on the notary to explain the course of the political debate. Here you go.
u2016-11-29-115	Dear Parliament, Allow me to explain the course of the debate. First, a statement from the representative of the Government will be made for a total period of 40 minutes. The speakers of each political group will then speak in 15-15 minutes, and the first independent Member will be able to speak. Further speeches are then possible within the remaining timeframe. Finally, the representative of the Government will respond in 20 minutes to what has been said in the debate.
u2016-11-29-116	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, Allow me to remind you of the more important rules of the time-frame debate - let me say, we have done so far. The speaking time of the member of the Government who spoke during the debate is expected to be in the time of the pro-government factions. In the meantime, two-minute speeches shall be included in the time frame, with the exception of responding to personal concerns. Point of order speeches are not included in the time frame. On the meeting room information board, interested parties can monitor the use of time frames. Before we begin the debate, I would like to ask the notary to explain each time frame. Mr. Messenger!
u2016-11-29-117	Dear Parliament, I would like to announce that the KDNP and Jobbik Group have initiated a doubling of their timeframe, so that the time frame is divided into 82 minutes for the Fidesz Group, 46 minutes for the MSZP Group, 76 minutes for the KDNP Group, 82 minutes for the Jobbik Group, 24 minutes for the LMP Group and 9 minutes for the independent Members. The time limits provided for the factions include the 15-15 minutes lead speakers.
u2016-11-29-118	Dear Parliament, First, the government's debate will take place in a 40-minute timeframe. I would like to inform you that, on behalf of the Government, Secretary of State Bence Rétvári and Secretary of State Csaba Dömötör are represented. Who's first? [[For signal:]] Secretary of State of Rétvár, please.
u2016-11-29-119	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, I think that today's debate can also be called the day of the opposition's remorse, because it was they who, a few years ago, exactly 20 December 2010 - when we had to decide whether we wanted to give women a preferential retirement opportunity, an opportunity to retire after 40 years of work or 40 years of work and child rearing - indeed, the Hungarian Socialist Party and Jobbik's representatives abstained from this vote, did not support it, and even the representatives of the LMP actually did not take no. From the point of view of retirement, it was not a simple period. We remember that in 2010, in the pension system, which was built on half-private funds, there was a deficit of HUF 320 billion that was missing from, say, the prize box. This money has migrated to the mandatory private register. By 2014, if this system had remained this way, this hole in the pension system would no longer be HUF 320 billion, but HUF 460 billion. This has been done by a variety of difficult-to-understand retirement opportunities that are difficult to follow compared to initial times. Many have retired by still being able to earn a living and have done work for years or decades in addition to retirement. In addition, the disability system at the time did not encourage those with a lower health impact to work, to improve and exploit their remaining working ability. The pension system at that time encouraged many to retire when they were young, with little service time and low income. If we look at the numbers and figures at the time, women were particularly disadvantaged, as in their case, in the case of average retirement, we could see that they were retiring with a lower amount of early retirement on the basis of fewer periods of service. This is why the government has decided to introduce a new family policy measure, which reflects a family policy aspect of growing deficits and dysfunctions in the pension system, namely that women can retire after 40 years, after 40 years of entitlement, completely independent of retirement age. [[16.10]] The government has opened up this opportunity to women who have endured both in the field of work and in the family for 40 years. She opened up the opportunity for women to think about their children and their parents who might need care. For their children, they can take part in the care of grandchildren and help children to bear the burden of raising grandchildren, and in many cases here we can talk about elderly parents and grandparents whose care also requires home life and home care. That is why this helps older people, since their children and daughters who retire with 40, can take care of them directly at home in a more loving atmosphere, and on the other hand it helps young mothers, as they can have children while continuing their careers. After all, at home in the family, the grandparents, grandmothers, can help with the child's commitment. We believe that this is a very good example of responsibility for each other within the family, a social value, solidarity between generations, which is also enshrined in the Fundamental Law, both the responsibility of parents to children and the responsibility of children to keep their parents, if parents need it, and the child has the opportunity to do so. Here, in this case, a serious insurance history, a 40-year employment relationship or a period spent raising children, i.e. the time to receive child-rearing benefits or the unpaid leave due to child-rearing, is counted precisely because a longer period of pension is expected here. These are the advantages that the ladies are entitled to, and the basis for this is laid down. In 2015, the Constitutional Court stated that the initiative, which is the basis for today's debate, would, according to the Constitutional Court's decision, empty the benefits of women, would evacuate the constitutional section which says that, in addition to many other groups, women should also be given special benefits. If this advantage for women were to be eliminated, the Constitutional Court's interpretation of this section of the basic law would also mean that it would lose its meaning. If you look at the women who retired with 40, you can say that after an average of 41 years of service, the women use the 40. On average, women retire at the age of 59 with 40, with a discount. 181,000 people have used it so far. But if it had been for opposition parties, these 181 000 women could not have retired, many of them had already reached the retirement age. There are now 130,000 in the category of women in 40, but the retirement age has not yet been reached. If it were up to opposition parties, they would have lived in 181 thousand in recent years and 130 thousand in far more disadvantaged circumstances at the moment, which would not have been available. Allow me to recall who did not support this proposal, since it was a long time ago, almost six years ago. I would also like to read these lists, because there are Members from many parties who will demand loudly in the next few hours the extension of the discount that they themselves have not supported. I would ask that if someone did not support the introduction of a discount six years ago, it would be a little strange here today if he were the one who was the loudest to represent this enlargement. Those who voted against from the benches of the LMP: Katalin Ertsey, Benedek Jávor, Virág Kaufer, Endre Kukorelly, Lajos Mile, Ágnes Ostollykán, Gábor Scheiring, András Schiffer, Rebekah Szabó, Timea Szabó, László Szilágyi, Péter Szilágyi and Gábor Vágó. These representatives of the LMP are no longer representatives of the LMP. There is only one woman sitting in the ranks of the independents, and in addition to the LMP - here, in preparation for this debate - there is the biggest fluctuations here, because none of them are here anymore, but obviously the party itself voted against this proposal at that time with a full shoulder width. Nor did the representatives of MSZP support this: Ferenc Baja, Gergely Bárándy, László Boldvai, Sándor Burány, Ádám Ficsor, Zoltán Gőgös, István Göndör, Nándor Gúr. At that time, representatives of Ferenc Gyurcsány, István Hiller, István Józsa, Ferenc Juhász, István Kolber, László Kovács or Tibor Kovács did not support him, but I could continue this line in the MSZP and continue. [[Interviews from the ranks of the MSZP.]] After all, Congresswoman Ildikó Lendvai, Zoltán Lukács, László Mandur, Csaba Molnár, András Nemény, Tibor Pál, Gábor Simon, we have heard a lot about her in recent years, Tamás Soós, Pál Steiner, Imre Szabó, Vilmos Szabó, Tibor Szanyi, Erika Szűcs, József Tóth, Csaba Tóth, József, István Tukacs, Zoltán Varga, László Varju and János Veres also did not support this proposal. I think it would be weird if I asked for this extension. Even then, Jobbik voted with the MSZP on this issue. [[Intercoms from Jobbik's ranks.]] Jobbik often changes his position, we know that from EU membership, from the protection against quotas to be incorporated into the Fundamental Law, through Sunday free, through the vote of the Church Act, until the election of constitutional judges, Jobbik had all kinds of opinions and the opposite. Here, in this case, let us look at who the better representatives were six years ago, who voted and did not support this proposal: István Apáti, Gergő Balla, Tibor Bana, Zsolt Barna Bödecs, Dúró, Zsolt Egyed, Zsolt Endresik, Gergely Farkas, Gábor Ferenczi, Tamás Gaudi-Nagy, Géza Gyenes, Márton Gyöngyösi, MP, Csaba Gyüre, Loránt Hegedűs, Tamás Hegedűs, Lajos Kepli, Sándor Kissss, Miklós Korondi, Gergely Kulcsár, Balázs Lenhardt, Balázs Lenhardt, Magyar Zoltán Murányi Levente, Zsolt Németh, Zsolt Novák Előd, László Nyikos, Gergely, Tamul, Tamás Samu Tamás, Gábor Szabó, Gyágy Szabó, Gyágy Szabó, Zágy, Zári, Zárgy, Zárgy, Zárgy, Zárgy, Zárgy. [[Noise, interruptions from Jobbik's ranks.]] A lot of people are probably in the ranks of Jobbik right now. They were therefore the ones who would not have granted this discount to 181 thousand of our countrymen, and they would be in a more disadvantaged position. However, not only did we try to improve the situation of pensioners or elderly people with 40+ benefits. I think more people have already read on the news that the Council of Elders, as it held two weeks ago today, has also discussed the rate of pension increase, the extent of other benefits, and the proposal of the Council of Elders was presented by the Prime Minister, which is obviously being discussed by the government tomorrow, so that the rate of pension increase will be 1.6 per cent next year, and that pensioners will receive a HUF 10 thousand voucher this year. However, it can be said that in the last six years, the safety of older people is much greater, for two reasons. On the one hand, those who no longer work but are pensioners, we have not only preserved the value of their pension, but we have also increased it, because if I look between 2011 and 15 the purchasing value of the pension has increased by 8.4 percent in this period as well. There's a month's pension worth more in retirement pockets than before. Obviously, their expenses also decreased greatly, as if I only looked at the reduction of the rent, for a couple with natural gas, forints 88 thousand per year, forints 83 thousand per year for district heating and forints 116 thousand forints for an elderly couple living in a family home. This has helped older people, whether they work or are retired, to improve their safety of life. Thus, they had more income, and there was a marked increase not only in nominally, numerically, 21.1 percent, but also in purchasing value of one month. In addition, their spending has decreased. We have to tell you that the job protection action today provides seven out of ten older people over 55 years of age to seven people, helping them to work. After all, ten workers over the age of 55 use the job protection action plan after seven. If this discount were not available, which the government has spent a high amount of money on in recent years, as today, if we look at the average number, they will use this discount at the same time for 317 thousand people, which is 48 billion forints per year, increasing steadily, 6.3 percent more this year than last year, so much more older people will be safe in the years ahead of retirement. So all these benefits have helped these people to get jobs or to keep their own jobs. For the safety of older people, I think this has also contributed very important and substantially. Employers can benefit both from a social contribution tax allowance for people over 55 years of age and from a vocational training contribution benefit. [[16.20]] As I said, 7 out of 10 people over 55 years of age owes them their jobs, their safety, their retirement with a higher amount of pension, as they can guarantee a safe living during the last years of work, and they can do so through employment. Special help, I think, for many people in old age, is the possibility of relaxing the Erzsébet program for pensioners, which has so far offered the possibility of relaxing, vacationing or bathing to 170 thousand pensioners: in the first year 17 thousand, in 2013 28 thousand, in 2014 34 thousand, last year 58 thousand, this year 35 thousand pensioners so far, I think, for a symbolic amount, for 500 forints or a few thousand forints, these elderly people could get a pre-season holiday or a bathing ticket. I believe that it was a noticeable rise in the standard of living for them during this period that they were able to make use of it. Also, the reduction in drug prices for frequently used medicines is a similar reduction to the reduction in overhead costs for many elderly people. If I can give you only one specific example: while in 2010 the reimbursement fee paid by the patient for one month of one of the most commonly used aided gastric acid-lowering medicines was 1000 HUF, they can now buy medicine with the same effect for 200 HUF. [[Deterioration in the benches of MSZP.]] Our fellow left-wing Members laugh at this, the pharmaceutical companies cry, but the elderly themselves can be relieved that they have so much less money to spend. While in 2010 one of the most commonly used, supported new types of antihypertensive medicinal products [[Noise in the benches of MSZP.]] one month's price, which is one of the most frequently taken medicines taken by elderly people - and not just pensioners, but older people - was around HUF 3000. The equivalent fee is now 600 forints instead of 3000 forints, with the same efficiency as the antihypertensive 600 forints. Even with cholesterol lowering, you can see a decrease from HUF 2200 to HUF 600, or even with medicines that reduce the risk of thrombosis instead of HUF 2100, it costs HUF 450 or a mood stabilizing, anxiety-solving medicine instead of HUF 2200 a month. This has also been achieved as a result of your blind bets. This is an advantage and a relief for many people. As I said, the introduction of women 40, was an important family policy step, an important advantage for grandmothers to be able to help young mothers, their children, but the same help for young people with small children in family politics was to increase the number of nursery seats from 37,000 to 48,000, so that not only grandparents but crèches are much more available to parents. As I was saying, here we were able to give this opportunity to a woman around 180,000, a potential grandmother. Here, too, the number of seats has increased by 11,000, and our plan is to increase to 60,000 by 2020. In fact, the introduction of a mini-cradle, a family nursery and a nursery in the workplace will allow children to stay in much more places during the day in each settlement than 10,000 people. We trust that where there are at least 40 people, children under the age of 3 or five children of that age, parents can claim this care. So it's not just the grandparents who have to do this. It is also important that there will also be daycare workers here, as from this year, young children with a higher education degree, and from next year, with secondary education, will have a salary of HUF 3 billion. I could also say the ged extra, the possibility of working from the age of six months, along with the parallel payment of the child and the child as care. If I watch last year, 35,000 parents with small children were able to live with this discount, which is just as helpful for families as the grandmother, who can now deal with grandchildren all day. As I said, the job protection action plan was an advantage and ease for many. This also left tens of billions of HUF in support of the families. If you look at the other discounts that we offer to families, so from the first couple's discount, from the family discount to the lawn, children, graduates, VAT reductions, CSOK, interest-supported loans, free children's meals, textbook care, a total of these family policy measures will be worth HUF 1741 billion in the budget next year, which is 4.7 percent of GDP. The result of this is that Hungarian families are growing in their desire to have children. I think that the Women 40 is a good fit for this series, it was an important family policy measure, an important family policy opportunity for those who want to work with the child, after 40 years of employment and having children, they would now devote their time to grandchildren, which is why this is one of the important family-friendly measures of the government. And what the opposition is doing in opposition to its previous position is obviously not a credible and responsible attitude. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-11-29-120	Thank you very much. Thank you very much for linking the two political debates with such a beautiful record, and by reading the roll call we went straight from the school world to the retirement world. So I can now give the floor to Secretary of State Csaba Dömötör. Here you go.
u2016-11-29-121	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Allow me to think further about what the Secretary of State Bence of Rétvár said. The government considers it very important that all social groups take a step forward in their own lives, and so do older people. We would like to express our appreciation to those who have worked for decades to make this country grow. Even because the older generation has experienced many things here in Hungary: war, revolution, change of regime and all its trials. The fact that the country is now on a more stable footing is the fact that this country is getting stronger, including the work of older generations. We must never forget that. Appreciation of older people is reflected in a number of measures taken by the government. For example, the government had previously reduced the cost of the rent by a quarter, which is why it has sought to protect the value of pensions since 2010, which has been successful so far. As far as the future is concerned, I am pleased to report that after today's Council of Elders, the Prime Minister has informed us that pensions will rise by 1.6 percent from next January rather than the planned 0.9 percent. Each pensioner receives a HUF 10,000 Erzsébet voucher before Christmas, but at the latest between the two holidays. It's a gesture. From 1 January, VAT on the most important foods will also be reduced. These are measures that you have previously supported. It is appropriate that, by the way of today, I also mention what is the occasion of debate, and this is a proposal, and it is a proposal from Jobbik. This proposal aims to allow men to retire after 40 years of employment. The fact is that the circumstances in which the proposal is submitted are very confusing, as ambiguous as the party that submitted them. Let me briefly explain what I mean. [[A voice from Jobbik's benches: Let it go.]] Jobbik promised in its electoral programme that women who have children should receive a pension allowance. Women should be given a pension allowance. They argued that you said that we did not say that the state should acknowledge the sacrifice of mothers who have children and who work alongside them. At that point, after drafting your election program, the thing seemed to be practically knocking on an open door. After the government took office, it proposed a programme for the "Women 40" programme. The proposal was to allow women to retire after 40 years of employment. [[Lajos Korózs: No, no! Permission period! That's different.]] This is more of a family policy instrument, as Mr Secretary of State has said, and this can be seen from the reasoning of your programme. [[Tamás Sneider intervenes.]] You're aware of that. Then the time passed, a few months passed, and the voting day came. It was December 20, and we were living in the same pre-Christmas period as we are now. [[Tamás Sneider: An election promise. You didn't keep it!]] And do you know what happened? What has happened is that the party that fought in its electoral program for women's promotion did not vote in favour of the Women's 40. This is completely incomprehensible. Let's do another raging roll call just for the record. This proposal was not voted out of the right-wingers still sitting here by István Apáti, Tibor Bana, Dóra Dúró, Zsolt Egyed, Gergely Farkas, Márton Gyöngyösi. Loránt Hegedűs, Lajos Kepli, Gergely Kulcsár, Zoltán Magyar, Tamás Sneider [[Tamás Sneider: That's right! I abstained.]] György Szilágyi, Sebestyén Vágó, János Volner and Dániel Z. Carpathian. The party president Gábor Vona did not take the proposals in their own programme so seriously that he did not appear. He's not here now, as far as I can see. [[Intercoms from Jobbik's benches.]] There's a tradition to that. For example, the party president did not vote for a proposal on dual citizenship here in Parliament. [[Tamás Sneider: The topic should be discussed!]] he had more important things to do. The fact is, therefore, that there was not a single betterman who had voted in favour of the Women's 40, there was not a single betterman. If it's up to the Jobbik, women can't retire today after 40 years. [[Dr. Gabriella Selmeczi: Shame!]] If it had been up to the Jobbik, 180,000 women wouldn't have taken that chance. [[Tamás Sneider: No, but 70,000 more!]] [[16.30]] In these circumstances, this proposal, which we are discussing today, is subject to a fundamental contradiction. For those who have not voted for the, Women 40, will present the,, Men 40. So they'd take advantage of men while putting women at a disadvantage if it were up to you. So we can ask Jobbik: why would men be given such advantages if it were up to you? [[Dr. István Apáti intervenes.]] The one they didn't give women? Let us hope that today's debate will be a good opportunity for us to have all the answers. It would be good if everyone who will speak out on Jobbik's part could personally comment on how they are trying to resolve this contradiction and declare why they voted against the Women's 40. In the meantime, we will share our own views until we hear Jobbik's resolution that Jobbik is a confused party that acts in confusion, and there are several examples of this. For example, the fact that several VAT reductions were promised in the past, and when it came to that, they did not vote for the VAT reduction that applies to the most important food and is effective from January. [[Tamás Sneider: We should get to the point. Mr. President.]] This also affects the elderly. That is why they did not vote for the amendment of the Fundamental Law, while a few weeks earlier their party president said that this was equivalent to treason. [[Tamás Sneider: I'd like to take the floor now! That's not the agenda.]] But more importantly, the government will continue to strive for both wage and salary users and pensioners to take a step forward, which is what wage increases serve, and you cannot dispute, pension increases and tax cuts. The fact that the Hungarian economy is already growing is a good basis for this. Dear Jobbik MEPs, Ladies and gentlemen of the Opponents, [[Lajos Korózs to the president: István, we should get to the point. Tamás Sneider: Rules of the House!]] I know the facts are tough, but you can't argue with them either. Honourable Members, The government listens to all opinions, considers all proposals, but does not expect us to constantly adapt to the opposition's daily changing position in terms of pensions, employment and other matters. If you can't straighten out your own position, at least let the government do its job. Thank you for listening. [[Applause from the pro-government ranks.]]
u2016-11-29-122	Dear Parliament, We now have speeches from Members. In the first round, the keynote speakers will be held within 15-15 minutes of each group of representatives. First, I give the floor to Congresswoman Gabriella Selmeczi, the lead speaker of Fidesz. Here you go.
u2016-11-29-123	Thank you very much. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen of the State Secretary. Dear fellow Members, For us, the national side has always been important for the elderly, for the safety of pensioners, for the safety of our parents, for the safety of our grandparents, for a decent life. As children, as grandchildren, we always pay attention to them, trying to give them back all the good they've given us our whole lives. [[Lajos Korózs: I'm about to cry.]] This is about the generation of people who survived the World War, who suffered the hell of the '50s, who strengthened this country with their work, who did everything they could to help their families, often raising two or three children and working two or three shifts. Those who, after the change of regime, under socialist governments, saw, despite all their hopes, that they would be looted, played, despised, ignored by the socialists. In 2010, when we received the trust of a large majority of voters, we said that women, women, who worked hard in these difficult times, were given priority among the many things to do, and who, besides their work, even had children, were raised with honor. In 2010, as the secretary of state said, we presented to this House our proposal, known as the "Women 40" which was about the fact that women who worked 40 years, including the period spent raising children, could retire in full value, should not have to wait for the formal retirement age, which was otherwise increased by the socialists. The proposal was welcomed by society. Not like the socialists and the Jobbik. The Women 40 was not voted by the Socialists or Jobbik. Yes, the Jobbik, which has now initiated the debate day "Forty Men." Women 40 is not voted for by Jobbik. Can we believe them? Can we believe they're serious right now? Are you serious about your proposal? And if what you think today is true, how long will your opinion last? Will they continue to think seriously in a week's time that, after they have not voted for 40, they will now stand up for the men who have worked for 40 years? Can you believe that? Really? So after what happened, can you really take it seriously that they put forward this proposal? But what really happened? There's something else behind this proposal. They looked at how votes could be hunted, and someone remembered this proposal. So they weren't trying to help men who worked 40 years, they were just trying to get a vote. Let's ask the question one more time: can you believe the Jobbik? The Jobbik who betrayed the protection of the country the other day for a bowl of lentils. We remember the question of how our Fundamental Law says that only the Hungarian Parliament can decide on the introduction of foreign peoples into Hungary, not Brussels, Jobbik said no. That's where he pressed the button. First, the party president had a deep experience of betraying those who said no to such a fundamental law amendment. [[Intercoms and information in Jobbik's benches.]] That's how it started. Then, when Prime Minister Viktor Orbán tabled this amendment, they backed out of it. [[Tamás Sneider: Shame! Are we gonna go through this all day? You're gonna issue a certificate for yourselves.]] Well, can you believe them then? Is it possible to believe those who change their position so quickly and so hypocritically? [[Tamás Sneider: You have no position, I see!]] And not on issues like, like, I've been a hard radical up until now, but from tomorrow, I'm gonna be more of a cute little puppy-loving loose man with eyebrows, because I've been told it's gonna make the party more popular. [[Lajos Korózs: This is the best one so far!]] No, fellow Members. They changed their views on issues that fundamentally determine the whole nation's life, the future of our children. [[Editor Sebestyén: You are very afraid of someone if you do this!]] For whose sake? Well, let's not get ahead of ourselves. This isn't the topic of today's debate. I don't think the seriousness of Jobbik's proposal deserves another word. [[Tamás Sneider: You're making a cabaret!]] Ladies and gentlemen, Allow me to summarize the work that we have done so far in order to protect the elderly, and to reassure the President, this is not a pension policy issue that we are talking about here today, but a family policy issue.
u2016-11-29-124	Thank you, I'm not nervous. [[Defiance.]]
u2016-11-29-125	Thank you so much, I'm relaxed too. So we're not going straight from school to retirement, we're talking about a family policy. For us, this is very important, so Women 40 is a family policy issue, as the secretary of state has said. So, together with my fellow Members today, we would like to summarize the actions and work that we have done so far in the interests of the family and of the elderly. Today we would like to talk about a change in the real value of pensions. Today we would like to talk about how the cost of living has evolved. Here we are going to talk about cuts in bills, food prices, VAT. We would like to discuss in detail here the reduction in the fee for medicines. We would like to say a few words about how inflation turned out - virtually not. We would like to talk about our family support policy, which includes the tax system, schooling aids such as free textbooks and meals; and we would also like to talk about the Elizabeth programme; and I will have fellow Members who will talk about how we can offer a little more to older people today in the field of health than, say, six years ago. So how did the real value of pensions turn out? By the time of the 2010 change of government, the pension system was on the verge of collapse and was on the verge of total collapse. [[16.40]] In June 2010, we were faced with a deficit of HUF 320 billion from the pension fund, a minimum of HUF 320 billion, which was a fundamental risk to the payment of pensions at the time. So in 2010, we inherited a pension system that put the pension of both current and future pensioners in jeopardy, and the pension lost its value year after year, for example, in 2009 it lost a lot of its purchasing power. The socialists left behind an unfair, opaque pension system, which, if the current government had not transformed the pension system, would have collapsed within a year. At the time of the change of government, one in three pensionforints were missing from the pension fund, and without an IMF loan, they couldn't have paid the pensions. This is where we started, fellow Members. After 2010 and 2010 we undertook to maintain the purchasing value of pensions. This commitment has been achieved every year, and we can even say that since then the value of pensions has increased more than inflation, so the purchasing power of pensions has increased beyond our commitment. Older people usually spend more than average on food, medicine, and household energy is a very large item in their earnings, so of course we used the retired consumer basket when we planned the current annual pension increase. As a result, pensions increased by nearly 10 percent between 2010 and 2016 compared to inflation. This is important because the purchasing value of pensions has increased by more than 10 percent compared to our commitment. If you look at this, this extra increase is, on average, equivalent to the payment of a 13th month allowance, so you can say that we were able to return the 13th month pension that the socialists had taken back. When you look at the consumer basket, when you look at what a pensioner spends on, you have to talk about the cost of living; this is also the monthly fee that they also have to pay. We had an important point in the program, a commitment to cut the rent. Before 2010, gas prices tripled, electricity prices doubled, which we managed to reduce. Let me give you an example of the shortness of time: that a retired couple living in a condominium, heating and hot water with natural gas have a saving of HUF 88,000 a year, but if the same retired couple lives in a family home, they will save HUF 116 thousand a year. If we look at the cost of an elderly household, we know that it doesn't matter how food costs go. Fortunately, we have been able to achieve a reduction in the price of basic food, since we are reducing VAT. Let's just say a few words about reducing the fee for medicines, which was a very serious battle between the government and pharmaceutical companies. The point of the drug register was not only to try to keep the balance from the point of view of social security, but also to reduce the cost of medicines for patients. The Secretary of State has listed in quite detail and exhaustively how the reimbursement of medicines for large and very many diseases will be reduced. Let me give you an example: for example, gastrointestinal and metabolic disorders, which unfortunately occur quite frequently, have been reduced by 17.6 percent. By the way, my fellow Member will also talk in detail about how the reimbursement fees for medicines have evolved. Inflation, what experts call a tax on the poor, is virtually not in Hungary today. I consider this to be a very big achievement, and we can help the elderly in a great deal by either low inflation or virtually no inflation. In the fifth point, let me mention our family support system. We think in the family, so when we talk about elderly people and pensioners, of course, grandparents are there, and they are equally affected by the fact that grandchildren go to school with free textbooks, do not have to pay for them, or when grandchildren go to school without paying a fee for mass catering, so that the child gets his brunch, lunches, lunches, and a lot of places to raise even domestic fresh fruit under the fruit scheme. It's a big help, it's felt on everyone's wallet. I was talking about the free textbook. We will also be talking about the Erzsébet programme here today, about the announcement that the Secretary of State has made about what the government has undertaken at the meeting of the Council of Elders: every pensioner will receive a HUF 10,000 voucher before Christmas. Let me tell you that this programme has lived until now, worked and that pensioners have been able to relax free of charge under the Elisabeth programme. I think that, on the one hand, means that life will be a little easier, less spending, and on the other hand, we can prove with these programs that we appreciate the elderly people we owe a great deal to as children or grandchildren. Ladies and gentlemen, We still have a lot to do to increase the standard of living for the elderly, our grandparents, so that they can feel even more secure. What we can promise here in the name of the Fidesz-KDNP fraction is that we will continue in the future with all our knowledge, strength and all our respect, and we will try to pay special attention to the older generation and create a more worthy life for them. Thank you so much for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-11-29-126	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, Congressman Lajos Korózs, head speaker of the MSZP. Here you go.
u2016-11-29-127	Dear fellow Members, Dear House, I am trying to tell you a few unsearched sentences about the motion because it was all about the day of debate that Jobbik's representatives initiated, starting with the reduction in drug prices, I don't know, in kindergarten and kindergarten care. It would be worth clarifying how the boots get on the table, how this problem gets here, before the Parliament for the many times now, not necessarily as a political debate day, but there have been several proposals from opposition parties, which are usually voted off by the Fidesz majority in the committees. I would like to remind this House that, in 2010, before the Government was tabled, my fellow Member, Mr Nándor Gúr, made a motion in the form of a parliamentary resolution that the Parliament should establish a law on the possibility for women and men to retire unanimously with 40 years of entitlement. My fellow Members, this has been followed by several motions, which must also be stated, and the measures taken by the government between 2010 and 2012 have resulted in the situation that we now need to talk about this proposal at 17 o'clock in the afternoon. What's the general's problem? That's what needs to be clarified first. The general problem is that, even in Hungary, in the context of the old constitution before the Fundamental Law, the social rights that gave workers the rights with which I think a XXI. There must be provision in a European country of the century. [[16.50]] First, the old constitution was changed, and later, measures that resulted in the current situation were removed from the Fundamental Law. Dear fellow Members, We must make it clear that there is no social security in Hungary today. Legally, there's no social security. Even that term was not included in the Fundamental Law as a definition - this is one of them. The second is that in Hungary today, constitutional, statutory protection is granted exclusively to the old-age pension, and all benefits - and this is the result of the initiative that Member Tamás Sneider notes - which are not old-age pensions, can now be taken in accordance with the law, can be reduced or paid for an uncertain period of time. To be clear: if the government decides at any time to take away the widow's pension, take away the parental pension, take away the orphanage, take away the conjugal allowance and list it. In Hungarian, constitutional protection is now limited to old-age pensions. It's one of the basics. The other thing that needs to be clarified is that all underage care has been discontinued in a rapid and non-transitional manner, thus endangering the existence of hundreds of thousands of people. Dear fellow Members, Since 1 January 2012, Hungary has no advanced old-age pension, no reduced amount of early retirement pension, no early retirement, no early retirement allowance, no miner's and artist's pension, and in another section, the disability and accident disability pensions were abolished to the shame of the world. A 125-year-old institutional form has been abolished. 125 years old! This is the result of the injustice that Members are now trying to remedy. It is also important to dwell because last year, my colleague Nándor Gúr and I tabled a motion in the form of a proposal for a decision to review the entire pension system. We have turned to gender discrimination, which only gives women the right to retire with 40 years of service. I am opening a parentheses here: Mr Dömötör State Secretary, I say that there is a difference between the period of entitlement, the period of employment and the period of employment. They can't be mixed; they're just so we can see clearly on the track-- that's one of them. Secondly, in last year's motion, we discussed the general problems that need to be addressed. Our proposal was to allow women and men to retire even before age, all the more so because the retirement age is rising, and your action, with which, I stress, has suspended the possibility of early retirement without any transition, creates terrible tensions in society. What's this about? By abolishing all pensions below the age limit, the most serious problem, point 2 of our parliamentary decision concerned this last year: review the case and the possibility of early retirement. We also explained last year that we cannot even accept the position that cuts were made with regard to the budget, the pension fund. The early retirement pension had nothing to do with the pension fund, since it was paid by companies who retired or wished to retire when certain conditions were met before age. The company paid a lump sum for social security, and the social security paid the allowance monthly to an employee who had not yet reached his retirement age. So there was no room for any economic considerations there, because it did not touch the register, because it was paid by the companies. It was different with age discounts. There were various age discounts until 2012, there were sectoral discounts. But what is this legislation about, or what was it about? The alpha and omega of the initiative, which the bettermen have just submitted, is here. Age relief, my fellow Members, could not be accumulated indefinitely. It was very brief that if you work in a job that is particularly harmful to health, you should have the opportunity to benefit from a service time discount. By the way, employers paid the price for this because they paid extra contributions. These rights could not be accumulated indefinitely, it was general rule for men that if they worked in such jobs - there were groups of professionals involved: they worked in the chemical industry, they worked in radiation danger, they worked in tights, and I could tell you more - they received two years' off duty after ten years of employment, and if women worked more than seven years in this job, they could apply this discount. If men worked for it for another five years, they could get another year, and if they worked for three more years, they could get this discount. But, dear fellow Members, it is no longer so today. Today it is possible to have 44 years of service or entitlement, if you do not reach retirement age and lose your existence, you cannot retire. I'll give you an example: if a 17-year-old young man was a skilled worker, graduated from his school, started working, is now 60 years old, worked world-wide, paid social security contributions, paid taxes for most of his life, now he's over 60 years old, and he's out of work or fired, he can't retire because he can't retire from an age limit. He's got community service, or if he's out of community service, he's got 22 800 forints of welfare. From here on out, it's practically over. The reason why we consider this solution to be terribly inhuman and anti-human is because, while an employee, a worker, has 43 years of working time, his active career must be completed by living on grace, living on aid or participating in the national trench cleaning program. But I'll tell you something else. My dear friends, if a young man had only one intention in life to become a trucker, he had a professional driver's license when he was 18 years old, worked his whole life, when he was 60 years old, he was not given priority on the Viennese ring, and he suffered an accident that had to amputate both his legs, this man had 42 years of work, but he could not retire at the age of 60 because he had a rigid retirement age. Where does this man go, what can he do? [[Miklós Soltész: Invalidity allowance.]] No, no, dear friends, no, no, I'm sorry. Then he'll get a sick treatment. I would like to point out that it's sick! There's no guarantee or pension protection behind it. But you can go down when you're young, my dear friends. And the years that someone covered by a contribution are later lost to him. That's the tragedy. As a result, honourable Members, honourable House, the Socialist Party, yesterday, submitted to Parliament a proposal for a resolution saying that, with 41 years of entitlement, all men should be allowed to retire without any reduction. We know that last year, the Constitutional Court canceled our motion - because we turned to the Constitutional Court - everyone knows that on the grounds that the Fundamental Law guarantees additional rights for women. For 41 years, it cannot be said that it results in the same entitlement as the 40-year entitlement period, and we therefore say that the Constitutional Court cannot make any other decision. If the committee responsible for Parliament cancels our motion, we will turn to the Constitutional Court. This motion has a reality, and I am also convinced that it is doomed to success. Dear fellow Members, To conclude, I would just like to say to the Fidesz Members that there is more modesty. More modesty in this case, because they could even admit this situation. You created this situation with the 2012 law, which was put into effect. Thank you so much for listening. [[17.00]]
u2016-11-29-128	Thank you very much. Mr Miklós Soltész, lead speaker for the KDNP Group. Here you go.
u2016-11-29-129	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, Jobbik's initiative is irresponsible and frivolous. It is frivolous because they did not support the possibility of 40 years of retirement for women. By the way, they joined the socialists, 88 Members said no or abstained. I would also like to read some by name, and, if I may, dear Jobbik MEPs, I would not start at the beginning with István Apáti, because he always gets the first one in the line, but vice versa: Dániel Z. Kárpát is here in the Jobbik faction; and I read only those who are here: János Volner, Sebestyén Vágó, György Szilágyi, Tamás Sneider, Gergely Magyar Zoltán Kulcsár, Lajos Kepli, Lorántné Hegedűs, Dr. Csaba Gyüre, Márton Gyöngyösi, Gergely Farkas, Zsolt Egyed, Dóra Dúró, Tibor Bana, Dr. István Apáti. All this has been done with the leadership of Gábor Vona, and they did not vote in favour of the 40, women's pension. Why didn't they do that? By not being supported, they did not actually contribute to family policy decisions to help mothers, families. Jobbik MEPs did not support 40 years of retirement for women to retire after maternity and 40 years of employment. I don't know if it's understandable how these mothers worked, but they've also taken on motherhood. There's a huge difference in your presentation. In this way, the mother's position in the work of family, community, and society is not recognised. They did not support the 181 thousand mothers and their families who have used this opportunity and have not supported women who are at the moment 140,000, and are now part of this care, the 40-program programme of women. It is irresponsible and endangering the current pension system, if they know the economic consequences, then it is very bad and irresponsible, and if they do not know it, then it is usually typical of Jobbik's behavior, because they are messing with all sorts of things and are actually unable to govern. In addition to the expected pension payments, and of course only that, and that is more than HUF 100 billion, have you counted on the lack of public burdens for those who quit work? Did they account for the shortage of labour and, in particular, the shortage of professionals, the economic damage and the disadvantage thereof? By the way, you have supported a parliamentary debate on this very day, and it is interesting that you do not have this idea. Have you looked at the retirement age of most other countries, EU Member States or European states? Do you know the life expectancy of men at birth? Not in the way Tamás Sneider says it's 62.5 years, because it's 72.1 years. Look into it a little bit, Your Honour. Do you know that, at present, men who receive a pension receive, on average, a pension for 20 years during the current period? Dear Parliament, No wonder, by the way, that in socialist circles for a few years, for four years, Lajos Korózs was left out, and he just sat in the expert box. After all, he was a part of the pension policy that the Socialist-SZDSZ camp used to hold for eight years, and now the Jobbik wants to join irresponsiblely. In 2010, everyone knows very well that the pension system was on the verge of collapse. [[Lajos Korózs: That's not true!]] The lack of a pension register, honourable Member, no matter how much you shout, was 320 billion forints that year. [[Lajos Korózs: That's not true either!]] Totally HUF 320 billion had to be transferred to the pension fund in 2010. You do this, whether you admit it or not, that's a fact. But it is also a fact that if the compulsory private pension fund system had continued, which you invented in order to circumvent the possibility of savings to your friends and acquaintances in all sorts of ways, you would have missed HUF 460 billion in 2014 and HUF 520 billion in 2015. In total, if we had looked at the entire compulsory pension fund, it would have been HUF 5600 billion. This is close to paying the pension for almost two years. That's all I'm gonna miss today, from the pension fund for 2016. That's why I'm saying they've been doing irresponsible retirement policies for the eight years they've been steering or pretending to govern. As a consequence, in 2010 the pension register was on the verge of collapse and this also threatened the pension payments of those who were then retired. I would also add that with this mandatory private pension fund, you have enriched the organizations, the cashiers, which, by the way, handled the money much more expensively, which the state then said with a guarantee that if they fell for it, it would be okay, and we would give it to them. They supported companies with community money, they would have taken the guarantee with community money. This has caused a huge shortage for the pension fund. The other part, which was part of the reform of the pension system, and it had to be done, was early retirement. And I'm very glad that Lajos Korózs talked about it this way, but he forgot to mention that there were nearly 900 thousand people in disability or disability care. It was life-threatening! Everyone knows the consequences of this in this country. Everyone knows that there were over 300,000 people in disability pensions that a good part of it was not justified, at least his application. And you also know very well, honourable Member, that there were hundreds of thousands of people who left with different early pensions at the age of 35-40-45 and then went on working in the same way after that. In addition, there is also a need to talk about value-proofness. Honourable socialist Members, you have not been able to maintain the integrity of pensions. In this period, between 2010 and 16 we gave pensioners more than 10 percent higher than inflation, and not by indebting the country, and this is also an important aspect. Because they never talk about it, honourable socialist Members. If you have done anything, it is not enough that the money has been scattered in the wrong direction, it is not enough that money has been spent unnecessarily and the country has been indebted. Because in 2002, the country's debt to GDP was 55.1 percent, and by the time you handed over the government in 2010, you were able to raise it to 80.9, or 81 percent. Now, let me add, 2015 data: 75.3%. So the way we were able to raise pensions, give support to pensioners in six years overall, is not to increase their debt to the country, but to reduce it. And to add, this is the pension policy that Jobbik wants to join. It jeopardises the situation that finally represents stability in the pension system, and it is predictable that pensions will be paid in the next 15-20 years. This is what Jobbik, who did not want to vote in favour of the possibility of the retirement of women 40, wants to do it again. Therefore, the KDNP cannot support any proposal made by Jobbik which also represents the stability of the country, the economic situation of the country and, in some respects, the threat to pensions, because what you are doing is frivolous and irresponsible, my fellow Members. Thank you so much for listening. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-11-29-130	Thank you very much. Mr. Tamás Sneider, Vice-President of the Parliament, lead speaker of the Jobbik Group is coming. Here you go.
u2016-11-29-131	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear House, I'm a little sad about the speeches I made. I expected that they would take this item more seriously, that they would take the problems of hundreds of thousands and millions of men in Hungary more seriously. [[17.10]] But you have shown what millions of working Hungarian men are worth to you, showing the union leaders at the moment what Fidesz policy is worth or what it means or what it means at all about men. We've seen nothing, and that's the mildest sign I can say. But it is also shocking that those who have made an election promise that women can retire on the basis of 40 years of entitlement. This was done directly before the elections. Then God gives, a few months later, a bill will be tabled, which will no longer be implemented, but, in addition to great lies, they will talk only about employment. And as a result, dear Members of the Fidesz Parliament, who were here at the time, you voted that at the moment 70,000 ladies could not benefit from the discount they would have had on the basis of their election promises. Any way I look at it, 2010. CHAPTER XII On the 13th, at 7:16 p.m., Bence Rétvári, Miklós Soltész, Gabriella Selmeczi, only to list those present here, by lying their election promises, submitted a completely different bill, and that is due to the fact that he was not rejected by the Jobbik faction, but he abstained when you lied and did not submit what you promised during the election campaign. And you want to change your own lie, your election lie campaign! [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: This will be difficult to explain. Intercoms from Jobbik's ranks.]] Well, so much for your mantra. And then, despite the fact that today's very important debate started in such a mood, I would like to get back to the point, because I was preparing for you, too, with data and numbers, because this could be debated pró and versus whether such a proposal makes any sense, there is no point in such a proposal. Obviously, it is worth taking a very short look at history first. In fact, it is true that recently, say, from 2008, the pension system has suffered a number of shocks, which cannot be denied, the Socialist Party has taken away the 13th month pension. [[István Tukacs: Then he gave it to me! Dr. István Józsa: Who gave it to you?]] it increased the age limit, and the Swiss indexation was abolished at the time. These were the events of the last years during the socialist period. We thought that during the Fidesz period some other policy would start, so this did not happen, because we know that the HUF 3000 billion of the private pension fund has been cancelled, that is, an average of one million forints of three million people have been removed, which could have been the basis for their pension rights. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: It was a free choice.]] It doesn't mean it anymore because it doesn't exist. Let's not get into the fact that you now bought MOL shares for $500 million, and now who knows what it's worth and what it's worth. The point is, this wasn't an election program for you. But as early retirement, the issue of service pensions, has already been said here, they have come to this issue in a drastic way. In fact, it should have been done in both cases, and it was in Jobbik's programme - and we are happy to do so today - that the private pension fund system needs to be transformed, because it has to be taken away from those Western capitalists who have benefited from it then, and have Hungarian state treatment, managing the pension fund, and here in Hungary. But you didn't do that, we know that, and you've been removed, and then I put it very, very delicately on this issue. And it's also a fact that the service pension contribution had to be remodeled, because it doesn't work for someone to retire when they're 32 because they graduated as a commando, and they did this job. You could give such extreme examples. And the Jobbik told me that yes, that these must be changed, please. But didn't you say, by chance, never in life, that you have to wipe this system off the face of the earth, and you have to work to the death of everyone, as you did afterwards. What happened? You've been on the other side of the horse, but you've stumbled over it very harshly, three times in this case. Perhaps another interesting thing is that employees' pension contributions have been abolished, and I think this is the greatest threat to the pensioner society today, for everyone, because it gave it, which was the cover of two thirds of the expected pensions. At the moment - I go further than what Lajos Korózs said - the old-age pension is not guaranteed in Hungary, the third of it is insured in Hungary at the moment, the 10 percent pension contribution paid by the employer. Because you have transformed this system into a social contribution tax, thanks to which the many thousands of billions can now be used for anything and will be used, since only 80 percent of the last budget has been paid for pensions, although obviously much, much more, should have been the pension fund, but now it is going to catch up programmes, to their favourite representatives, though, their Gypsy-born representative is happy to spend it, the social contribution tax and other things. We think it should and should fit the pensioners. Well, so much for the historical situation, I've had a lot of time with it, because it's important to talk about the point. And then allow me to move on to arguments. Although you didn't object, so I expected to be able to respond to something, to say that it costs so much, to have such effects, to have such effects, nothing happened, nothing I heard. I trust you have some professional material in front of you, but you have a few tens of thousands of employees in different offices who can help you with your work. First of all, a basic situation: at the age of 55-60 today, an average Hungarian worker in Hungary, especially in the countryside, is practically not getting a job. It's a basic situation, and that's what we should actually change. Allow me to come to the financial question. There were some crazy numbers that were cut up in the beginning, the highest amount was 1300 billion when they said that there would be such a budgetary impact on this story. Then they held me back a little bit, there's been one more realistic from the Treasury Department, they've been at 200 billion a year, if the whole system works. I have to say that they have already approached the reality, that, if you look at the financial data, but in fact it is much lower than our calculations, this would not mean 160 billion forints in the current situation if the whole program worked. But Jobbik does not want to introduce this programme immediately and at once, but in the same way that you, in the case of women, have been constantly introduced for four years. As a result, this cost will be published sometime in four years. Is this money a lot or a little, say, the 35 billion that you have to spend on it in the first year, or the other one later? Please, the social contribution tax, which, I say, would be a pension contribution, has increased by HUF 470 billion over the last two years. Would it have been a terrible thing to pay $35 billion? And then four years from now, when it may be 1200 billion forints more in the register, would it be a terrible thing to pay 160 billion forints? That's why I don't understand Fidesz's attitude, besides what's happening here right now, by the way, en blog, why a relatively small and very important question is not solved. There are hundreds of thousands who suffer the consequences. And then I didn't talk about the cost-cutting factors that are very important. On the one hand, if one retires from the market at an older age, where youth unemployment is still much higher at the moment, 13,6 percent, one can replace it and work. On the other hand, young people's job-seeking contributions would be less because there would be fewer unemployed among them. But the same applies to older people: job search contributions would be reduced. Now, let's look at a lot bigger than that, so let's look at all the tens of thousands of former paramedics, drivers, firefighters, miners, or, I don't know, how many professions whose professional careers have ended, they have to cut wood in the settlement - and that's the better case - or they actually have to clean the trench. [[17.20]] Paramedics, firefighters, let me not list these professions. You tell these professions, boys, to work until you're 50-55, to save people, to do the most sacrifice, for a very low wage! Because your reward will be that when you are already disabled, but you cannot go to disability because you are not so disabled, then, please, you can go and clean a ditch as community workers for forty-thousand forints, 53 thousand forints at the moment, and as a result, your pension will be so low that you will not live from it. This is today's Hungarian reality! This is where the complaints come from, which could be continued endlessly. And allow me to read you three letters, three brief letters on how people are living this whole issue in Hungary today, with a very short recess. First letter, I quote:. At present, we are living from work to casket time. Thousands of people die without their pensions being worth it. I'm 56 years old, I can't take grandchildren, I can't help my children. I'm tired, and I have to work. But if grandparents could help, young people would have more children because they could be better supported by retired parents. If nothing else, then in taking care of the children while the parents are working, let's take a look at another short quote, "My dad can't leave with 45 years of work, because he's only 62 years old, physically freaked out, my sick mom is the same, she's 36 years old. The extra 4 years he would have spent in the chemical industry were taken away - we know that well - by working with two cervical vertebral hernias at the age of 60, and he still has 4 years left until his retirement.And then another one, which arrived today, by the way, is a small complex:.I am 62 years old, I have 46 years of certified employment, I have to work two more years, but every day I feel that I will not understand it. I hope that my unused pension will contribute to a mediocre, forgettable Olympics. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. A crowd of letters like this comes to us, and many times it is terrible to read these writings. And then some more data, because they missed the data, although you didn't say anything at all. Perhaps everyone knows that men die much sooner than their fellow ladies, at present it is that 33 percent and one third of men die. [[Dr. Gabriella Selmeczi intervenes.]] It's not worth the age of 65. No need, Gabriella, to smile on that, that's right. Yeah, a third of men are dying, unfortunately, whatever smiles there are or whatever, before they're 65. So this shows that men will have to pay less pensions at the time. But if we can get the rest of the two-thirds to retirement, they will die four years earlier than the ladies. So again, the layer that could be affected by such a form of support is much smaller. Here's a simple piece of paper. [[He's showing it to me.]] This dandruff, it shows how many pensioners there are, male and female. On one side the woman, on the other side the man. You might think thicker is the case of women. Indeed, twice the number of female pensioners in Hungary today is virtually as many as the number of men. I'm not even talking about the jobs that we've been talking about here, all of them, or most of them, almost 99 percent, which are dangerous jobs, they're men. The vast majority of jobs that are harmful to health are carried out by men. Still, thank God, we're not there for ladies to have to take the 120-pound patient off the floor as paramedics, let's say, at the age of 60 or a few. Let's hope we don't get to that level. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] And they also missed foreign examples, very briefly, and I'll still have time to speak. Please, in France, there was a retirement age reduction under Sarkozy, recently. [[The president's ringing again.]] In Poland, the retirement age was reduced a few days ago, the retirement age in the Czech Republic is being revised, and in Croatia and Portugal, please, the 40-year employment system is in operation...
u2016-11-29-132	Please stop.
u2016-11-29-133	... which we also want to introduce here in Hungary. Thank you so much for listening. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2016-11-29-134	Here comes Congresswoman Erzsébet Schmuck, lead speaker of the LMP. Here you go.
u2016-11-29-135	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, The LMP supported this political debate day, as we supported the referendum initiative a year ago. We did so then, even now, because we consider it important to debate the issues relating to the pension system, and we agree that the pension system needs to be amended and reformed. This does not mean, however, that in the instruments, in the directions of the amendment, we agree with the other initiating parties. First of all, it is important to recall the path that led up to this day of debate. In 2015, József Bodnár, an official of the Railways Union, submitted a question to the National Election Committee, which, unspoken and unspoken, was about the 40, which was about how men could retire on equal terms with women. We know the Calvary of the referendum issue. The Election Committee rejected the initiative on the grounds that it was impossible to hold a referendum on matters relating to the budget. Then the Curia changed the decision of the NVB because the unification of the retirement condition does not necessarily have budgetary implications. Then came another turn when the unknown lawyer Dessewffy Alice, who appeared out of nowhere, attacked the Curia's decision at the Constitutional Court. He referred to the fact that women are talking about gender equality, as the Fundamental Law also states that women's equal opportunities are achieved through positive discrimination. The Constitutional Court then annulled the decision, stating that it was against the basic law. Ladies and gentlemen, The failure of this referendum initiative does not mean, of course, that we can save the debate on whether this pension system is good, as Fidesz has done. Is it okay that there is no way to retire before the age of 40, except for women? Five years ago, the government deleted the system of pre-age pensions, early retirement pensions, early retirement pensions, service pensions, invalid pensions by removing the social debate in this regard, by not consulting interest representatives and social organisations. He treated the issue as one of the austerity measures of the Széll Kálmán plan, which must be pushed down the throat of society. To date, there has been no debate on how to create a pension system that is both fair and sustainable. We are therefore discussing this issue today because the government has saved these debates in recent years. However, in order to give men the opportunity to retire after 40 years of work, the specific proposal cannot be supported by the LMP in this way. The main reason for this is that this would upset the balance of the pension fund and would be fiscally unsustainable. And now I'm gonna give you some numbers. In fact, men would result in a significant loss of contributions and, at the same time, a drastic increase in pension expenditure. In comparison: the programme has cost about HUF 800 billion since the introduction of the Women's programme in 2011, only HUF 195 billion is planned for this year's budget. According to the latest data of the National Pension Insurance Directorate in January 2016, 139 thousand people made use of the average HUF 118 thousand benefit. While the government calculated that the revenue from a half-percent increase in pension contributions of approximately HUF 30-40 billion would cover the expenses, its calculation did not work. Forint 105 billion already in 2012, HUF 136 billion in 2013, HUF 164 billion in 2014, HUF 185 billion in 15 and HUF 195 billion in 2016 were underestimated by the Women's programme, i.e. the programme. [[17 .30]] With a higher average pension for men and about 150,000 entrants, the men would charge the HUF 150-200 billion pension fund of HUF 3000 billion in the first years and thus the budget expenditure side. Pension expenditure would increase by 6.6 percent from one year to the next, while on the revenue side the contribution paid by pensioners would be lower. This step would only be feasible without the balance of the pension fund being overturned if we increased the contributions, as the government did in the case of the.40, or if we reduced the pension. In the case of a general pension reduction, average monthly payments per capita would be reduced by 6.4 percent. Obviously, none of these solutions are viable. And the better economic situation, to which Jobbik refers, we see that it cannot be based. As we know, economic data may show temporary improvement, the extreme exposure of the economy and its dependence on EU resources and exports of multi-nationals are not the basis on which such a measure can be built. In addition, it is another question that, if the scope of the budget is increased, tax and contribution revenues are increased, then what would be worthwhile. We, i.e. the LMP, would rather support the restoration of the early retirement system in a modified form and a flexible pension system. At present, there is no early retirement option for health-intensive, health-damaging jobs. The government terminated this in 2011 and completely led it out at the end of 2014. At the end of 2014, the wage agreement was signed by employees' representatives on the condition that discussions were opened within the framework of the Competition and Government's Permanent Consultation Forum on improving the situation of workers under particularly high physical and psychological stress conditions, i.e. a new system to replace early retirement. According to the agreement, the result should have been submitted to the Parliament during the spring session in 2015, but this was not. The government's failure to promise also gave the last push to the 40, men's referendum initiative. The abolition of pre-age pensions mainly affected men. The health of these workers continues to deteriorate, most of them lose their jobs and are not worth the retirement age. In fact, the previous job list is outdated and needs to be reviewed, but this does not mean that the system has become obsolete. According to the LMP, the earlier system of early retirement needs to be reviewed, but there is a need to maintain the possibility of early retirement for those working in jobs that are harmful to health. Risk assessments should be carried out in professional groups and occupations with a constant physical or psychic burden exceeding the average, and within a narrower framework, but the possibility of retirement should be provided with a full pension amount. These include firefighters, bus drivers, paramedics, miners, policemen. Where possible, the employee should be placed in a different position. For example, a person who has become unfit to work in his original profession because of loss of sight or hearing must do so. If, on the other hand, a person is unable to work properly and has no other means of decent retirement, the possibility of early retirement must be maintained. In addition, pensions should be returned to those who were unlawfully deprived by the Government of their pension rights acquired before retirement age by the end of 2011. [[István Tukacs: That's right!]] It has not become a constitutional step to deprive people of their acquired rights because the government has written in the Constitution that pensions can be converted into benefits or even be withdrawn. In addition to the new system of early retirement benefits, which would affect fewer people than before, LMP would introduce a flexible pension scheme. We believe that there should be a system that does not upset the balance of the pension system, but at the same time gives us the opportunity to retire after working some working years. Firstly, this would mean that, after a certain period of service, anyone could choose to retire before retirement age, but with a reduced pension. This would also allow men to retire after up to 40 years of work with certain financial sacrifices. In addition, flexible solutions such as part-time retirement for those who want to retire gradually could be envisaged in such a system. Flexibility would also mean that those who want to continue working would not be hindered by the state. Fidesz introduced a rigid pension system in which not only there is no pension before the age, except for the age of 40, but retirement is compulsory when the age is reached, as far as the public sector is concerned. In 2013, forced retirement was introduced in the public sector and those who were allowed to continue their employment were banned from double benefits, i.e. they had to choose between wages and pensions. However, according to the LMP, this was a completely flawed step, since the government should not ban and punish work for the pension, but encourage it. It should be possible for people reaching retirement age to choose whether they want to continue working, whether they want to supplement their pension with work or not. The government does not feel sorry for the pension they deserve from those who have worked for it and want to work with a pension! They also earned the pension, earned the entitlement, paid the contribution for decades, i.e. they also deserve the pension, no matter how long they want to stay active. Moreover, there should be no discrimination on the part of the public sector against those working in the competitive sector. Due to the lack of staff in the education, health and social sector, it is also necessary to open the way for experienced pensioners. But it is not enough to allow work on pensions, it should also be encouraged, there are many ways to do that. For example, labour rights benefits, part-time work, telework, more days off for retired workers, the development of digital skills for retired workers or the formation of attitudes, incentives for employers to employ older, experienced workers, recognition of companies or voluntary programmes, but there are also contemporary support programmes. At the same time, we believe that pension reform should include ensuring the longer-term sustainability of the pension system. In the long term, the balance that has been restored at the moment can be seriously impaired by 2030, as the orphans of Ratkó are far from raising as many children as the previous generations. There will be a lot less active contributors to dependents. We see that the pension disaster is projected by the growing emigration of young people and by the applause of 3000 billion private pension money, which has been set aside for people's later pensions, and that is not now. This corresponds to about a year's pension. In the future, the pension fund can only be balanced by an increase in employment, i.e. more active on a pensioner. Without increasing the number of contributors, increasing legal employment, stopping migration and increasing the willingness to have children, there will be no sustainable pension system. Ladies and gentlemen, We should also talk about how to pay higher wages for future pensioners. Today's low wages will result in low pensions and poverty in old age. Those who earn little and work for a short period of time or breakage in their active age must face poverty in old age. In addition to low salaries, there are fewer and fewer hours of service, many unregistered, black workers, long-term unemployed, half-time workers. The government's cheap labour policy over the past six years will also avenge itself. According to the LMP, a much higher wage increase than previously would be necessary. We think that a 15% increase in the minimum wage is not enough now, because this would only increase the minimum wage. We recommend again and again to the government that it accept the proposals of LMP, the restoration of multi-key personal income tax, the tax-free minimum wage, because this would ensure that not only the wages of minimum wage earners but everyone's. [[17.40]] Higher Wages for a Safe Living [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] and would mean higher pensions. We ask the ruling party to consider our proposals. Thank you very much.
u2016-11-29-136	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, Now it's a two-minute lap. Congresswoman Gabriella Selmeczi, Fidesz, please.
u2016-11-29-137	Thank you very much, Mr President. It's kind of hard to react in two minutes to all the factual errors that have been made. First of all, I would like to say to my fellow Member, Tamás Sneider, that pension rights have been removed, he told us this, addressed to Fidesz. [[Tamás Sneider: I didn't say that.]] I've made a note of that, and I've been able to say that about the private pension fund. Let me tell you that the person who entered the compulsory private pension scheme at that moment lost 25 percent of his public pension. We brought this back with a lot of other things, but I don't have time to explain. And then you challenged the fact that we didn't actually argue with your proposal. Let me tell you that it is worth arguing in substance with someone whose word can be taken seriously and is a credible politician. The Jobbikra, unfortunately, cannot be said. [[Tamás Sneider: Well, that's very good! - Intercoms from Jobbik's ranks.]] It is quite difficult, my fellow Member has tried to explain why they have not voted for the 40, it is quite difficult to explain, and it has not succeeded. [[Tamás Sneider: No wonder you didn't understand.]] However, don't be angry, let us not be ashamed, but let us be proud that the Fidesz-KDNP fraction allowed women who worked 40 years to retire fully after 40 years of work, including this period of child rearing. And let me tell my colleague, Mr Korózs, that he has dealt a great deal with the issue of retirement age here, that in 2009, it was you, the Socialist Government and you, the Social State Secretary of the Socialist Government, who raised the retirement age of both women and men to 65 years by presenting and voting. And by the way, it was your party, the Hungarian Socialist Party, who also touched the retirement age between 94 and 98. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] He raised women from 55 to 62, men from 60 to 62. Well, then why are you whining? Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-11-29-138	Congressman István Tukacs, MSZP!
u2016-11-29-139	Ladies and gentlemen, Mr President, The reason why I would like to respond to the main speeches in the first round and to the words spoken by the two secretary-general as government positions is because I believe that the contents of this debate have not been misunderstood by the parties, but that they are trying to mislead many people. It is not a debate day about the women's 40, and it is not even about the pension system. The reason you want to consciously set up the man 40 and the woman 40 as an alternative is because you want to avoid talking about the real problem. The real problem is that you have eliminated all the benefits that exist, and if I can put my fellow Member together with the cradle railwayman who did his work in the snow and freezing, he will not respond to my sentences with such a cynical smile. So, with respect, I'd like to ask you to talk about the subject. If you wish, talk about your costs, if you wish, talk about your dangers, but don't talk about what the female 40 is, and that there is a comparison of the man 40, - the two are not in relation to this! The real problem you have created is that you have eliminated all existing benefits, without exception, everyone's, and you are now supposed to be proud to do so. Are you proud to undertake that the mason climbs the stand at the age of 65 so that the chemical worker can enter the hazardous plant? You're proud to say that the man who works out on the street and earns his living will wear out, but you don't want to care about him? Ladies and gentlemen, In connection with Man 40, talk about this and your actions. I would like to talk about credibility issues in my comment. Thank you.
u2016-11-29-140	Thank you very much. Congresswoman Erzsébet Schmuck, LMP!
u2016-11-29-141	Thank you very much. I would just like to contribute to the debate with one more issue, namely that the pension system is avenged by the government's labour policy over the past six years, and I would like to refer to three factors and draw attention to the fact that low wages represent a low pension contribution. The contribution also sets the amount of pension coverage for today's pensions and the amount of future workers' pensions. If wages are low, the safety of future pensioners in old age is at risk. Today, more than a million people, a quarter of the workers, pay their contributions by minimum wage, and they can expect a pension of around HUF 50,000, and I don't even mention public workers anymore. However, low wages affect not only contributions, but also contributors, since the emigration of young people and middle-aged people in active working age has been a declining contributor for years. In addition to domestic income and housing conditions, fewer and fewer people are committed to starting a family at home, and an increasing proportion of women who already have a declining number of parents' age live abroad. As a third, I would like to draw attention to the fact that low salaries do not leave room for self-care, so that people are expected to save their retirement years. In order to save pensions, a very small part of the population can afford it, and even the government is taking away the opportunity from the people. For all these reasons, we propose to the government not only to raise minimum wages, but also to propose and take action on wage increases in general. Thank you very much.
u2016-11-29-142	Thank you very much. Congressman Tamás Sneider, Jobbik!
u2016-11-29-143	Mr. President. Albert Einstein was a bad student and a very fussy man, and on that basis you probably wouldn't talk to him, because he's a man like that, and I wouldn't take him seriously. This puts you in the position to conclude the debate, with such thoughts, and that again qualifies you. That's all I wanted to say. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2016-11-29-144	Thank you very much. The two-minute circle is now... almost finished when Congressman Soltés pressed a button, and since the KDNP has not yet spoken in this round, you have the floor.
u2016-11-29-145	Thank you very much, Mr. President. István Tukacs asked us why we were talking about the situation of the pension system, the situation of the pension system, why it had to be added, because he was not in the debate the whole time, why it was important to change the pension rules in general six years ago, and therefore I repeat it to you. Your irresponsible policy, economic and pension policy put pension payments at risk by 2010 [[István Tukacs: The pension fund is closed more than once!]] because of your irresponsible and otherwise committed to your friends, the compulsory private pension fund has withdrawn funds from the state pension to the extent that they had already made it unsustainable and that the pension system would have fallen completely today. [[István Tukacs: That's not true.]] I repeat that number once again, if we did not change the private pension fund you created, you would now be missing HUF 5600 billion from the pension fund. Honourable Member, this means that the pension for nearly two years in total. Even if you wag your head, you've been pursuing a pension policy that not only has pensions gotten in trouble, but also has the country in debt. They upped debt from 50 percent to 80 percent, so what they gave them, they could only do it on credit. What would they do now? This is what they support, and it is Jobbik's responsibility to join such an irresponsible, unprofessional policy and try to support another left-wing, completely demagogic thing. [[Intercoms from the ranks of MSZP and Jobbik.]] Dear Congressman Sneider, I just want to ask you this. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] What you meant by the fact that representatives of gypsy origin are happy to spend the social contribution tax. [[Z. Carpathian Daniel: Exactly what he said. Interviews from Jobbik's ranks.]] What did you mean by that? Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-11-29-146	The two-minute round is over, and now on behalf of the government, Secretary of State, Bence Rétvári. Here you go. [[17.50]]
u2016-11-29-147	Thank you very much. I, too, would like to see the Jobbik's explanation of exactly what they want to say about the gypsy-born congressman's spending. But first, I'd like to address my words to the LMP. They are very fond of saying that in Hungary the Hungarian government wants to boost the economy with cheap labour. Not with cheap labour at all, but with cheap energy prices, we want to boost the economy in Hungary. [[Noise, interruptions from the opposition side.]] He asks why the government does not act in order to increase wages in Hungary. The government does not have much influence on private employer wages in the ordinary sense. You have two opportunities to try to help raise wages. One is raising the minimum wage [[Adam Mirkóczki: Or don't steal. Deterioration in opposition benches.]] With which, if the lower parts are raised, the higher pay groups will also receive higher salaries. You know very well that in the past and during the first Orbán government, there have been radical minimum wage increases. At the same time, the minimum wage rose from HUF 10,000 to HUF 50,000, with an average of HUF 6 thousand per year, followed by a much smaller period with an annual minimum wage increase of around HUF 2900, and now another HUF 6,000, and from next year there was a very radical, 15 percent and 25 percent increase in the minimum wage. [[Constant noise, intervention from the opposition side.]] This is suitable for pushing additional wages and high wages in Hungary. This is one of the government's options for intervention, raising the minimum wage. Name another government in Hungary, abroad, who proposed a higher minimum wage increase than the trade unions! Where else is there a country where the interests of workers are represented more radically, in depth and more advantageously by the government than by trade unions who are supposed to do so? [[Noise, interruptions on the opposition side.]] I don't think you'll find many of these countries. There may be one or two, but there wasn't much of a country where the government proposed something higher than trade unions. Our other option, very briefly, is the tax reduction against you. You always say that you want a multi-key tax, in Hungarian, you want a tax increase. [[Noise, interruptions from the ranks of the MSZP, including Lajos Korózs: The oligarc-hák is to be taken away from the property.]] This has to be translated from this beautiful, now almost Gyurcsányism, called multi-key, in fact, tax increases to what we have actually dropped the highest tax rate from a tax level of around 30 percent to 15 percent. And if you have a child, if you have one child, you may have only 10 percent or 8 percent, if you raise two children, 4-5 percent, if you have three children and you earn an average, and then you have a zero-percent tax and you have to pay a zero-percent contribution. We have said that people's income should be increased by a much greater increase in the wages of minimum wage earners, even to a greater extent than those requested by trade unions, and that people's wages should be increased in such a way that they have to pay less tax. I think there's not a lot of other options for the government besides encouraging companies. Not only have we encouraged them, but we have also reduced taxes, we have also reduced employers' taxes to pass them on to employees. And how we have raised salaries for 400,000 people in the public sector over the last few years, I think you know very well that there have been many, many percent higher wage increases in the public sector in the last 12 months than in the market sector. That's what we've been trying to do to increase people's income. I would like to point out to Congressman Korózs: I do remember that you worked at the Ministry of Erika Szűcs, where you were a State Secretary. [[Lajos Korózs: He worked in mine. Defiance.]] That means internal party relations, it's a matter of opinion who worked in a ministry, you're a secretary of state, he's a minister. He was the one who said here in Parliament that, in a very large part, who have different preferential, early retirement pensions, a large part of them are people of active working age, and that people who are otherwise of working age have recorded this in Parliament's minutes, I think you know it, and instead of giving these people jobs instead of this discount. This is what socialist politicians, the Socialist Minister, spoke about in the Socialist Government. And now Congressman Korózs is opposed to this. I think that you should discuss this among yourselves, among former colleagues, and that that is why all of you are proud to stand up in the Socialist Party at the time, and have said yes to the abolition of the 13th month pension, i.e. they have said yes to the pension cuts. You said that Congressman Nándor Gúr had tabled a proposal that gave everyone a 40-year retirement opportunity. The other question is what you are talking about, let's say, is your fellow Member, Nándor Gúr, but the vote you voted against here is absolutely certain. It is recorded in Parliament's minutes; I might as well mention Erika Szűcs, who was there at the time, and also Mr Tukacs, who did not vote for it. You said that this situation was created by the government, indeed the situation that 181 thousand women can retire after 40 years of work and after a period of child rearing, care for their grandchildren or care for their elderly parents, is indeed the situation that this government has created. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-11-29-148	Thank you. Dear Parliament, We are now returning to the speeches of the speakers who have been announced in advance. Congresswoman Katalin Csöbör, representative of Fidesz. Here you go.
u2016-11-29-149	Mr President, Dear House, Thank you for the floor, and for the debate day on Men 40, I would first like to talk about the measures taken by socialist governments that have seriously affected the elderly. Socialists have used, cheated and impoverished pensioners before. We all know that it was the socialists who took away a month's pension during their administration. [[Noise, interruptions from the lines of the MSZP, among them: It is not true!]] And they even let it deprecate. They promised there wouldn't be a gas price increase, and then they tripled the gas price. [[Interviews from the ranks of the MSZP, including: This is not true either!]] Then they promised to cut VAT, and then they doubled the VAT on food. [[Interviews from Fidesz: That's right! Intercoms from Jobbik: Now 27 percent! It's the tallest! Who's doing this?]] In addition, they wanted to introduce a pension tax, a visit fee, a hospital daily allowance of HUF 16,000 a month. [[Constant noise, interruptions.]] Socialists have always used, cheated and impoverished pensioners. And the pension system was brought to the brink of collapse. After all this, Jobbik's politicians, instead of making proposals to start men's retirement after 40 years of employment, should rather be thinking about who they would replace the outdated workforce with. [[Cries from Jobbik, including Tamás Sneider: With the young! With those fleeing your pepper!]] Could it be with the bars? And you and Merkel agree? From their recent vote on the amendment of the Constitution, we do conclude that they were thinking of migrants. [[There's a lot of uproar, clarity, and applause in the ranks of the Jobbik.]] Bravo! More and more, the impression of the Hungarian voters is that the right-wingers have completely lost track and are simply improvising. [[Constant noise, interruptions from Jobbik's ranks.]] Instead of taking a responsible look at the issues that fundamentally affect the nation's future, for example, it should not be said that if women can retire after 40 years of employment, so should men. Why didn't they say 30 years? You could have said that. Instead, they go to liberal TVs to do stupidity, improvise, and hurry, because their acceptance is sinking. [[Uproar, interrogations from Jobbik's ranks.]] It follows from this that Hungarians cannot count on Jobbik, even though they regard themselves as a national party, neither the socialists nor the Gyurcsányists. It is not the national interests that are important to them, but the failure of the Fidesz or the Orbán government. Do you claim to be national? [[Intercoms from Jobbik's ranks.]] I think that your voters have been given a faceless, semi-liberal, semi-socialist party instead of their radical party, and their voters don't like it, and I understand them. [[Uproar, interrogation from Jobbik's ranks, including Dániel Z. Kárpát: The next page may come.]] Next page: yes, they are coming now, as Fidesz-KDNP appreciates the elderly against the previous policy. [[Delightfulness, interrogations from Jobbik's ranks.]] Since 2010, the purchasing value of pensions has been guaranteed, there is an inflation-following pension increase, pensions have increased by more than 21 per cent on average between 2011 and 15 and, thanks to persistently low inflation, their purchasing power has improved by 8.6 per cent. This latter amount is the sum of more than one month's pension. [[Interviews from Jobbik, including Dániel Z. Carpathian: Long live the party!]] Our aim is to continue to guarantee the value of pensions. The significant wage increases in the wage agreement that we have just concluded are also an opportunity to increase pensions. We also help pensioners to make a living by reducing their costs, using a free fuel programme and reducing their VAT on the most important foods. This year, pork is cheaper, and next year we move on. Fresh milk, eggs, and poultry meat VAT are also reduced, with which pensioners can save more tens of thousands of forints. Dear fellow Members, For a few examples, let me give you a specific description of the effects of the reduction in costs. If a retired couple lives in a gas-heating condo, they can save 88,000 forints a year. If you have a district heating house, you can save 83 thousand forints, if you can save 116 thousand forints in a family home. [[18.00]] In addition to the reduction of the rent, the VAT on basic foods can also be reduced, and this way pensioners can save tens of thousands of forints annually. [[Dr. János Latorcai, vice-president of the Parliament, takes the chair.]] In recent years, inflation has typically been overestimated in the planning of the budget, resulting in an increase in pensions of nearly 10 percent in 2010-16 compared to inflation. The additional increase is equivalent to the payment of approximately 13 months' salary for pensioners. So the current pension system can be maintained along with benefits, and we do not want these benefits and this system to be put in jeopardy because of better ideas. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from the pro-government ranks.]]
u2016-11-29-150	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. I welcome once again my fellow Members. The MSZP Group... Sorry! State Secretary Bence Rétvári applied to speak on behalf of the government. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2016-11-29-151	Thank you very much, and thank you, Mr Tukacs, for your patience. I would just like to ask my better fellow Members for a little more respect. If you do not give respect to your fellow Members here, and you keep yelling at us, you may still be able to accept it, although it may not be appropriate, but you should, but at least give the respect to a woman who is a Member, I think that you will listen to the speeches in a cultural manner. [[Intercoms from Jobbik's benches. The president's ringing the bell.]] It seems to you that it pains me very much to talk about this big turn of the Jobbik here in Parliament, from the radical party to such a cute party. [[Intercoms from Jobbik's benches.]] trying to turn into such a lukewarm or flat or neutral party. But when you are so strongly and radically inquisitive about this, and you cry out that you are the same people who came here to Parliament six years ago, that's why you should all be in front of your former groupmate, Mr. President Novak: whoever didn't join the cute line is no longer in the faction. [[Interjection from the benches of Jobbik: Why does it hurt you?]] So I suggest you think about it, too, when you're making a lot of noise, who knows who the next Novak ancestors will be, who will be removed by the faction leader because of the cute exit. So I would ask you to give the speakers, the ladies who spoke, more respect; if they have not voted for 40, they will at least give respect to their female fellow Members. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the pro-government ranks.]]
u2016-11-29-152	Thank you very much. Here's Congressman István Tukacs. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2016-11-29-153	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Ladies and gentlemen of the State Secretary. First of all, I would like to reiterate my view of what I said in my two-minute comment. In today's slang, it's fashionable, so there's a diversion going on here. You are trying to put the issues of the pro-government side or pair, but most of all to contrast the questions of the women's 40, and the man's 40, and even to make them an exclusive reason for each other, although that is not the case. The problem is that you have abolished all existing pension benefits. There is only one discount today, the woman 40, and no one has the option in any way, if they want to, or if they so dictate their fate, to retire. And his fate often dictates it. If we look back at certain benefits, we need to see, unlike the theory of the retired 30-year-old police officer, that the benefits were justified for retirement, because there is a justification for physical wear, a justification for the work at a dangerous plant, it can be justified that in the hot roller mill, that the chemical factory, that the railway station had been and that these benefits were good, because people were ruined. And you've eliminated them and made it look like that problem doesn't exist. In many respects, these benefits were part of a social contract, which was that, yes, we know that you work in a place that is bad for you, dangerous, and when you reach an age, it's good that you can retire and some people take this job. It was particularly interesting in those places, but let me just say that, besides the railway - which is a heartbreaking problem for me because Zahony, as a railway town, carries these problems - there were those who explicitly concluded this social contract with the state. Such was, for example, the professional soldier who took up his absence from the family, the services, the more difficult conditions, knowing that the state would give him a discount. That's what the contract was. You guys kicked it up and destroyed it. If something has consequences, it is not only that tens of thousands and hundreds of thousands of people are waiting to see if they will have the opportunity and what it is like when the moment they feel they can't work, but also that you have broken the agreement that we promised you once and we are the state, then we will follow it later. And these are the moral consequences. Ladies and gentlemen, So what I would like to say is that the problem is not in the current pension system, but in the absence of the advantages available to people working in places. I agree with the opinion of the LMP congresswoman in one place and I am debating it in one place. I'm arguing about numbers. 160 billion is a very rough estimate, and there's a lot we don't know when we say a number like that. For example, we do not know if the men in question want to retire after 40 years. Not everyone wants to leave. So those who earn well and feel that they can still work will stay, and men, unfortunately, I say, usually earn better than women. We can't pinpoint how long a person stays in a particular pension system, because it's mortal, whether it's one way or the other. And for me, too, the figures that show how many people are worth today's retirement pension are terrible. Therefore, I think that the 150,000 men in this regard would have quite untraceable intentions at the moment, if we were to say that, yes, after 40 years of law-making, you could retire if you chose it, and you would choose it. The fact that we do not know how people will arrive at empty jobs makes the calculation particularly uncertain, because if we assume that an empty job, if the man is gone after 40, is not filled, I think we are very wrong. They're gonna fill jobs. Then I think that the figures are partly uncertain, and I think that they are not unbearable. In the debate on the budget, it has often been said from a pro-government perspective that there is money for everything in the budget, if there is an intention to solve that problem; it is true that the budget expenditure will have to be cut elsewhere. That's what I think. Therefore, a more serious consideration of the matter, more precise calculations, but we should be willing to do so, we want to solve these problems. I think that the new initiative of the Socialist Party, which says that then, man 41, will solve the problem of the Fundamental Law. Although, ladies and gentlemen, on the pro-government side, let us be honest, they have not been a big problem to you so far in the Fundamental Law, if they wanted to change it, they have changed it. So these arguments that the Fundamental Law contains this do not say anything to me. At the same time, however, the statements about the current pensioner's minimum need to feel good, but the maximum exploding joy is running around the market with the witch tank, because he has everything, these are huge mistakes. When you say how much pensions have been raised, I say why, you have done nothing more than what is in the pension law: you have raised pensions with the inflation planned for the current budget. Then, if it wasn't that much, they adjusted it. What's so wonderful about that that you should be thanking me for? That's what they were supposed to do! I think that these air-borne claims, which are about to be paid in fact for a 13th month, are very, very misleading. They didn't. Retirementes received only what is in the law, because - let me put it exactly - pensions should be increased at least by an estimate of inflation in the following year. So you don't have a barrier to 0.9 and 1.6, because it can be more, because at least that means at least with inflation, or with more. And since I would like to give my fellow Members on this side an opportunity to comment, I would finish, but I promised you that I would talk a little bit about credibility issues. Well, let's hear it. [[18.10]] If you are talking about credibility issues on the opposition side, then I would like to say that I would like to leave the role of speaking here in this Parliament, in this 40-year-old man, who was blackmailing private pension funds, blowing 3000 billion into the wind, and then not keeping his promises, that is at least ridiculous. My fellow members of the Government, where are the individual pension accounts you promised me when the private pension fund was destroyed? ! Where are these bills? Can someone point to it? [[Dr. Gabriella Selmeczi: I've got them!]] If we're talking about credibility! Do you have them anywhere? Then I'd just like to see one, Congresswoman. Otherwise, if we're talking about credibility and we want to go back in time, let's go back a little further in time. Do you remember, my fellow Members, from the liberal era of the party, the parliamentary event when they said that they were packers, kneeling, praying? [[Intercoms from Jobbik's benches: Yes, we heard! Noise.]] And now they're sitting peacefully next to each other talking about credibility issues? Don't make me laugh, okay? ! Ladies and gentlemen, The case itself requires more serious considerations, it can also anticipate solutions if you are able to do so and are willing to do so in the interests of the people for whom it is necessary to do so. Mr President, thank you for this opportunity and thank you for the floor.
u2016-11-29-154	Thank you very much, Congressman. On behalf of the government, Mr. Csaba Dömötör asked for the floor. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2016-11-29-155	Allow me to respond to one more earlier speech, but first of all allow me to say that I am still sorry that we do not get an answer from Jobbik on the grounds that men will be given benefits they have not given women. We heard a disturbing explanation, but not a meaningful explanation. [[Intercoms from Jobbik's benches: Why are they not listening? You must have been ministalking. Deterioration in the benches of Jobbik.]] It would be good to take advantage of the time frame available. Congressman Sneider has suggested what a 55-year-old worker can expect in Hungary. I, too, consider it a good idea to examine this. If there is a 55-year-old worker working in Hungary, the fact is that he has a higher chance of working than at the time when this government started its activities. 680 thousand more people have jobs compared to 2010. This means that a 55-year-old also has a better chance of having a job, and it is an important fact that most of the jobs created do not belong to the public works industry, but are created on the market. I find this question strange in itself. A week ago, we were sitting here, and you initiated a debate day on the fact that the posts are not filled in Hungary. You spoke here a week ago, in the same line, in the same tone, and spoke of a shortage of workers. A week goes by, and you're asking why a 55-year-old worker can't find another job. If you'll please clarify your point of view. A 55-year-old worker, in addition to having a better chance of getting a job in Hungary, also has a higher chance of getting a higher wage. Even if he is a skilled worker, a minimum wage, even if he is a doctor, a nurse, a teacher, a government employee or a government employee. And if you have another job, the government will contribute by reducing taxes to raise your wages. If he still raises a child, he'll also have a higher tax allowance he can count on. If you have two children, the tax benefit per child will increase to HUF 15,000. If you have a company, if you have a business, your employer's tax is reduced by 5 percent and your corporate income tax is reduced to 9 percent. It is the 9 percent in the order of magnitude that is the lowest in Europe. If you're a small businessman, you'll double your tax relief. So, Congressman Sneider, what I can tell you is that a 55-year-old person can take a step forward in his own life from 1 January onwards, and that is true even if there are still a lot of steps to be taken. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-11-29-156	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. A proper speech will come from the Fidesz Group, Mr Péter Csizi. Here you go, Congressman. [[For signal:]] It's not two minutes yet, it's only possible to make a proper speech, Congressman. Then, when Zsolt Egyed gave his speech, a two-minute speech is possible.
u2016-11-29-157	Thank you for the floor, Mr President, and, of course, I will also take advantage of the two-minute speech. I would definitely like to respond to Mr Tukacs, and I hope that he will stay with us and help us resolve a dilemma. But in the meantime, let's not get ahead of ourselves. It sounds good that, on the debate day before us, the opposition will enter into such a political bidding, because the parliamentary auction is now taking place with a political bid before us. All of the opposition parties' speeches reveal to me that we treat the elderly as a kind of passive layer, and we need to find those programs, find the messages with which - I say exactly from a better representative, Tamás Sneider himself - to be a kind child in order for pensioners, say, to vote for Jobbik. But I see that the LMP is doing nothing else, and of course neither is the MSZP, and if we look at the polling data, if we look at the previous election results, then we see that what opposition representatives are doing is absolutely legitimate. It is understandable that they must go into a bid, and it is understandable that the false ones of each communication must be used in order to gain a small advantage compared to the other opposition party. So I don't want to argue with that. If you look at the political side and the political instrument system, you can even accept that. We think differently. Both government and governing parties do not treat older politics as a measure of popularity. As - and I will come to this - women's 40-year-old pension benefits were not introduced by the government to make Fidesz or KDNP more popular. Congresswoman Gabriella Selmeczi explained that the government considers the 40" Women's programme to be a point of a kind of family policy system. And it's not new, it's not Fidesz policy. Please, at the World Conference on Ageing in 1982, the United Nations stated that social intervention is needed for older people that cover their entire lives. It is not a popular measure to be put in place a year and a half before the elections, but a system to look at people and not the age group. That's the difference between government policy and your policy. You have selected a age group and are sending them a message. And we look at man and have taken measures over the past six years that help parents who have children as well as young people, family people, and later the elderly. If we look at it professionally and on the basis of a European sample, because in this Parliament the direction that is taking in the western part of Europe, I think that the Irish national ageing programme best shows that when we talk about older policy, it is not only the age group over 60 that needs to be observed and addressed. The Irish national ageing programme begins briefly: ageing does not begin with old age, but with birth. Moreover, the profession has long called for a paradigm shift in politics. For a very long time, the profession has said that life - style and lifestyle throughout its life determine the quality of life of old age. That's what the government's been saying since 2010. What the profession has been saying for decades, professional conferences, universities, those circles, the faculties and research institutions that deal with social policy. [[18.20]] Of course, I am biased, so I will give you examples of Pécs, and I believe that the research of the University of Pécs is credible when I would like to convince you that men and women are of different needs and motivations, so that, taking into account these different gender standards and values, interventions should be organised. Ladies and Gentlemen, When we are talking about a woman's 40% discount, we are talking about the recognition of the double load on women. We acknowledge the work that they do at work on the one hand and the same intensity and vehemency in their families and family circles on the other. By the way, in Pécs, I have received innumerable signals from women who have made use of this discount in recent years, and they all said that they do not want to cover inactivity, but, on the contrary, they want to deal with the care of their grandchildren, they want to care for their elderly parents, and they also help their child, the younger generation, get to work as soon as possible and even more easily. And let us not forget the guidelines that we have in the world today, which are binding on us. The principle of WHO's active ageing strategy is to prevent social isolation and social exclusion. That is why we have heard the results of the Erzsébet programme from government representatives here. WHO has otherwise made it compulsory for its members to take measures to exercise and to strengthen physical activity. Therefore, it is very important, starting from everyday physical education, to actively exercise the Middle Ages in order to implement the WHO Directive to make people as active as possible in old age. Because older policy is not an ad hoc policy that we are campaigning for, but if we want older people to move, older people to be physically active, then the culture of physical activity must be introduced into everyday life as children and young people. Among the WHO recommendations, however, is the expansion of the supply system's services and the creation of access. Congresswoman Selmeczi has already pointed out that over the last five years we have made a HUF 600 billion improvement in the health system and that we have specifically improved the conditions of rural hospitals, whether it is a quality improvement in service or, perhaps more importantly, the improvement of machinery, technology, which serves diagnosis and healing itself. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-11-29-158	Thank you very much, Congressman. A proper speech from the Jobbik Group will be followed by Mr Zsolt Egyed. Here you go, Congressman.
u2016-11-29-159	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, I see today's debate on Fidesz-KDNP has gone into a bombing for Jobbik. I think there are two reasons for this: one is that they are either afraid of us and the other is that they probably have no professional arguments. I would like to make one point at the beginning, but, by the way, my fellow Member Sneider has already said that you are bombing us by abstaining from the vote on the Women's 40. Well, the reason we abstained from voting is because you, as usual, simply lied, told something else in the campaign, and then did something else as a bill. And we thought we weren't gonna give our names to a lie. There have been all kinds of accusations and pranks about Jobbik. I would like to ask my fellow Members, after Voldemorts, helicopters, Flores Farkas, Lőrinc Mészáros, to show more modesty and try to focus on the subject, because believe me, if we go into this debate, you will not get along well with this. But I'd like to talk about why we're here in this evening's class, about the... men's 40. I would like to say one aspect of this issue which I know is the least of your concern, since public workers are only statistical data for you, which can be well communicated: there is little unemployed in Hungary. But I would also like to draw attention to the fact that these people - and I would also like to refer to the speech of our lead speaker - are not only paramedics, they are not just firefighters, they are not just people who are not able to do their job physically, but there are parts of Hungary, such as where I live, in Borsod-Abaúj-Zemplén county - I am sorry that my colleague Katalin Csöbör has left because he lives there - where there is simply no other option. There are villages where people have been working community service for a decade, and they will probably work as public workers for the next one and a half to two decades, as long as they have the opportunity to retire. I ask my fellow Members what pension a man who works for 53,000 HUF for decades can expect. What will that man's pension be, because at the moment 53,000 forints is enough that if they receive their salary on the 1st or 2nd, they may pull it out of him until 10th and then try to live the way they can. Is that the perspective you have in mind for a large part of the country? Is this the future you imagined? But you can take the question further. How, for example, will a 65 - year - old freighter who needs to load, work, or how will a 65 - year - old bricklayer, a handiworker, or any physical worker do his job in such a way that there is quality work on the merits and that the worker's life might not go on? You don't answer that, but Katalin Csöbör also, sorry for the expression, but he says nonsense here that Jobbik wants to replace the jobs with migrants. We do not want to replace you with migrants, fellow Members, but with the hundreds of thousands of young Hungarians who have been driven away from this country, and who are in western Europe doing their day-to-day work because they did not have a perspective in Hungary, they did not have a livelihood. This current system, which you are building, must be stated, is nothing more than that the narrow layer - who you represent and who you represent - should live well, until you simply deal with the rest of the country, have given up on them, better off going public, worse off going to the world. The reason why we would like to bring this bill to an end is because we believe that every Hungarian man deserves to wait for him for happy retirement years or decades after his working life, but you will not allow that, because by the time you get there, one third of these men will die. It's that simple. That's why I'm asking for your support. And once again, I would like to ask you for more modesty, because the fact that you are besieging Jobbik is understandable from your point of view, because you have played your credit in this country. A significant part of the country trusts Jobbik, so it is understandable from your aspect that this activity. I'm just asking you to think about the level above your head, so I'm asking you to be more modest in this debate. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2016-11-29-160	Thank you very much, Congressman. It is now possible to make two-minute speeches to one representative per faction; as you know, the house rules contain this requirement. From the Fidesz Group, Mr Péter Csizi applied for a two-minute speech.
u2016-11-29-161	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I have just mentioned that I would like to respond to Mr Tukacs. The Member spoke about a problem of credibility, and he also mentioned that there was a diversion. I have calculated that he has used the word credibility eleven times, while he said that the retirement age in Europe is virtually inhumane. I would ask you, Congressman, to help me with a little bit and to interpret together the material I downloaded from the Internet yesterday. There are sentences in this statement that there is no need to be afraid of ageing, because we can find our place in society at the age of 60, 70 or 80. The essence of active ageing is to make more of ourselves, not less, as the years progress. I recommend my favourite sentence to the Member: active ageing requires action from economic life and society as a whole, because the labour market must be able to involve older people. [[18.30]] Honourable Congressman, This statement is a statement from the delegation of the Hungarian Socialist Party to the European Parliament. I ask you, Congressman, do you say otherwise in Europe and say otherwise in Hungary? Do they say something else in Brussels, in the European Parliament, and say something else to their own voters here in the Hungarian Parliament? When can we believe the MSZP? When he shows his European face and talks about the need to create employment in the labour market at the age of 80, or when he says here that the possibility of working at the age of 50 is inhumane and that the retirement age is too high? Yes, Congressman, there have been credibility problems in the Hungarian Socialist Party for a very long time. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-11-29-162	Thank you very much, Congressman. Ms Erzsébet Schmuck applied for a two-minute speech. Here you go.
u2016-11-29-163	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. It is simply shocking how the majority of governments do not want to acknowledge the problem and the weight of the problem! Instead of talking about how the early retirement system could be restored in a modified form and a flexible pension system, there is practically a political give-and-take. We should talk about a package like this. And it must also be said that if you have kept your promise to the employees' representatives at the end of 2014, namely that negotiations will begin to improve the situation of workers under particularly high physical and psychological pressures, i.e. the new system that will replace the early discount, these discussions will result in results, and in spring 2015 you will bring this to Parliament, then Jobbik should not have taken the initiative today, and then we should not have supported today's debate either. Because then there would have been a substantive debate about how we could normally replace the old system that obviously had flaws. In this, I think you're hard to blame. And I have to respond to Mr. Secretary of State. I don't know when, but I'd like to explain to you once and to you what multi-key personal income tax means and what a single-key means. You're always slipping when we're talking about what multi-key personal income tax would put in people's pockets. You're always talking about a tax increase, which is not true. In the next two minutes, I'm going to stay here, and I'm going to explain to you that your single-key personal income tax has taken over 100 billion forints out of the pocket of the poorest and put 500 billion in the top 10 percent pocket. You'll forget about that. And for once, think about what it means to have striped taxation. Thank you very much. [[It's a rare applause in the ranks of the Jobbik.]]
u2016-11-29-164	Thank you very much, Madam Group leader. A two-minute speech from the KDNP group will be followed by Miklós Soltész. Here you go. I'm asking you to take your place in the horseshoe, because he's the author.
u2016-11-29-165	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, I would like to tell Erzsébet Schmuck that neither you nor the socialists nor the Jobbik replacing the SZDSZ [[Defiance.]] has not voted in favour of a pension for women 40. They're having fun at this, but now they've brought in a proposal that everyone knows is frivolous. It's frivolous because they didn't vote for it. It's frivolous, because Jobbik knows that what the Socialists did to the SDS for eight years meant that they destroyed the pension system. By the end of 2014, the pension system would have been priceless if everything had been continued. Everybody knows. If the Jobbik doesn't know that, if he doesn't admit it, there's even more trouble in their head and even more trouble. So from here on out, what you're talking about, what you're bringing here, whatever subject you're bringing here, I'm afraid I have to say we have to look at it in one piece. As much as you don't think so. You take a slice out of life, we give it money, whatever, after them the flood, you don't care how much the country's debt will be, you don't care how people moan after that, you don't care that debt went up to 80 percent in eight years. You don't care about anything but the momentary profit! And that's the line the Jobbik is in. Doesn't Jobbik recognize that? When there were a lot of such debates back in 2010-11, he applauded the government. But now they want to become so much government, together with you, I would add that they are increasingly closer to each other, that they are already giving up all the principles, and, as a result, they are actually coming up with proposals that are simply ridiculous. Because one week, they're arguing about how to replace the workforce, and the next week, they're arguing about how to send people to retirement as soon as possible. Thank you very much, so much for your expertise. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-11-29-166	Thank you very much, Congressman. Mr István Tukacs, from the MSZP Group, is next for a two-minute comment.
u2016-11-29-167	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Congressman Chizi, if that's your favorite sentence, it's your right. I think it's a great sentence. It is about living or approaching retirement years peacefully and with joy. Only the people I'm talking about aren't like that. In physical work, tired people with no opportunities... [[Peter Csizi intervenes. The president's ringing the bell.]] - two more minutes, let's do one then, shall we? - who need to receive discounts. Otherwise, this person who says what in Brussels in Hungary should ask Commissioner Navracsics to ask his prime minister. They say different things. Congressman! I'm talking about the problem. I'm talking about a situation in front of us where you have abolished all the benefits that exist, and people are in a terrible situation, so they need help. If you can't understand that, then you're either stupid or unforgivable. [[Peter Csizi intervenes. The president's ringing the bell.]] And I'd like to make another point. Ladies and gentlemen, Contrary to all popular belief, in 2010, the pension system was not on the verge of collapse; in 2010, you claimed that the pension system was on the verge of collapse. And if you could have or understood its significance and waited for the entry of those in the private pension scheme into the old-age pension system, you would have figured out how this would relieve you of the burden. But this is part of the legend that you like to make, starting with the Greek situation that nearly knocked down the Hungarian forint and decided to do it all the way here. Let's talk about the point. And Jobbik can be dehomed with all kinds of criteria, so we should discuss in substance what Jobbik's initiative means. That's what I want them to do. Thank you, Mr. President.
u2016-11-29-168	Thank you very much, Congressman. It is from the Jobbik Group that Mr Sebestyén, who is cutting, will take a two-minute speech.
u2016-11-29-169	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Let us not forget that we can be bombed here, as my colleague Zsolt Egyed said, but let us not forget that the one who lies is not us, but you. Why did we just abstain from voting this law? What did you promise the voters in the campaign? It means that all types of eligibility conditions are included in the + 40 plus. Compared to this, the bill reduced, cut these rights, cheated their voters. We didn't want to assist. Because of this step, 70,000 women were excluded from this opportunity, so we did not support it. And back to cutting out slices and giving certain people some money: yes, that's what it's about. When we discuss a detailed question, we discuss a social layer. Here it would affect a layer of society for a man of 40 plus. We want to give them money, we want to support them. We don't want 3-4 people, Lőrinc Mészáros, Árpád Habony, Vajna; we want to support these, a social class, the rightful man with 40 plus, the aging men, the ageing men. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2016-11-29-170	Thank you very much, Congressman. On behalf of the government, Mr. Bence Rétvári, State Secretary. Here you go.
u2016-11-29-171	Thank you very much. We have just heard, and the static elements of the building did not tremble when Congressman Tukacs said that in 2010 the pension system was in order. Let me quote you from 13 March 2009 Minister Erika Szűcs:. The absence of the pension system is currently HUF 200 billion. This was said by Erika Szűcs then, and announced measures in several areas. It was a government spokesperson briefing. Not only did he talk about these issues here in Parliament, but he also spokespersons of government about how they will change the rules, on the one hand, with the rules on early retirement and, on the other, with the rules on early retirement pensions on the other, precisely to change the system, and to keep these forms that he considered unsustainable at the time, which you now consider necessary. As I said, not only here in Parliament, he said that it is unacceptable that the masses, even hundreds of thousands of people who are fit for work, who are of working age, live as pensioners, but also here at this press conference. And besides, he told me that his pension fund is HUF 200 billion short. [[18.40]] He also said that it was completed a few weeks ago, so I think that soon after that, they published their publication "Customs Management and Growth," which suggests that in 2010, by changing the pension calculations, tens of billions of forints should not be allocated to pensioners, but saved. This was, therefore, the press conference of Minister Erika Szűcs on 13 March 2009. This, therefore, refutes all that has been said by the Members of the MSZP in recent years. Their own minister denies that there was a crisis or that there was no crisis at the pension fund. He acknowledges 200 billion, we talked about 320 billion, which would have increased year after year, and their own minister also acted against early and early retirement pensions. So it's obvious they said something else then, and they're saying it now. As far as the disabled are concerned. You are talking here and you have just spoken about this issue before you, honourable Member. When State Secretary Soltés led this area in NEFMI and EMMI, and the rehabilitation card was introduced, the number of people who were able to work as disabled people, obviously encouraged by employer discounts, increased several times, and managed to create jobs as a result of the rehabilitation cards. [[István Tukacs: Where?]] A compulsory, voluntary third-pillar pension. Honourable Congressman, Everyone could decide for themselves whether to stay in the three-pillar system or to leave. [[Defiance in the opposition's benches.]] Everyone could make a statement. [[Dr. István Józsa: It was blackmail! The president's ringing the bell.]] I see that together the representatives of MSZP and Jobbik will find out good, but when forums are held, where MSZP members are present, who are involved in this circle, ask how many of them remain in the system created by MSZP and SZDSZ, in the compulsory private pension system, and how many are not included. [[István Tukacs: You blackmailed them!]] Your members, the MSZP members, ask the MSZP members. Be a little curious. Be a little curious. There was a volunteer opportunity. The MSZP presidency's demonstration went to the pension lender and said that he wanted to stay in the compulsory private pension insurance scheme. But ask the members of the MSZP, there are quite a few of them who have decided for sure. Did you listen to the leaders of your party, or did you listen to common sense, and say that you decided to trust the state's pension rather than the mandatory private insurance system created by your own government? Maybe if the MSZP listens to his membership, if the Jobbik listens to his membership, because the right-handers find a good way to do it. [[Dániel Z. Carpathian: How could we not have known?!]] - they should ask their own membership at their own meetings. We are now flogging the government's decision to change it, and we are not allowing this hole to remain in the pension insurance system, we are not allowing us to put the pension savings of Hungarian people at risk, and in different ways others are using it for their own benefit and to endanger people's savings. But so did the goodies, when they said six years ago that it was the right decision, they put it in their program, and now they're saying how many drawbacks there were. Ask their own members, their own Jobbik members, that they have crossed, they have not crossed, they are in the mandatory private, they are not. And when the government's decision is reviled so violently and with a temperament here in Parliament, perhaps their own members can give you a little restraint. I think it's worth listening to their members, their Jobbik members, their MSZP members. And when Jobbik says that the reason for this proposal that we are discussing here today is that Fidesz is stealing, it shows how serious you are. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-11-29-172	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. A proper speech from the Fidesz Group will be followed by Mr István Happy. Here you go, Congressman.
u2016-11-29-173	Dear Parliament, It seems to be growing together, which belongs to each other. [[Crying out of the opposition benches. The president's ringing the bell.]] At present, before Parliament, two groups of opposition dwarfs agree and bid on each other to see which of them will be stronger in their coalition negotiations. [[Erzsébet Schmuck: Which two?]] The thing is, neither the Jobbik nor the MSZP...
u2016-11-29-174	Excuse me, Congressman. Ladies and gentlemen, There are more who are waiting to speak here. Before we have a general discussion here, I would ask all of you not to put me at risk from having to withdraw from someone else, so try to listen to Mr Happy as well as to others. If Congressman Bana sits down, I'll have someone to warn. [[Tibor Bana sits down]] So I'm warning Mr. Cutter Sebestyén. Okay, well, let's count the time and go, Congressman.
u2016-11-29-175	The truth is, I can see that the members of the Jobbik and MSZP factions are hurting the truth. You know, Mr. President, it's like yelling at the person who's hurting the truth, so if you yell at him, all you'll do is get him to say that what I said hurt you, and I told you a lot of truth. The thing is, you can see that the Jobbik faction is trying everything to create popularity. One of these is that men can retire after 40 years of employment. The only problem, Mr President, is why we should take you seriously, since you have made countless promises in recent years that you have opposed. For example, when their party president stood up and said that he was using salt to spread the place of commercial media. Compared to this, one of them is there today to be cute after the other, and they're practically trying to sell themselves to the electorate. So what's the truth? Is there going to be a splash of salt, or are they trying to make it popular there? And then here was the business of closing the store on Sunday, which was part of your program, and then when it came out that it wasn't so popular in the country, you quickly turned against it, so you don't have a credible word. Plus, it's your party president who's going to join the Guinness record as a politician, because I don't think there's ever been a party president in the world who betrayed his entire party faction with himself. That's a wonderful thing, because what happened? What happened was that you said something about the Fundamental Law, and then, when the vote on the Fundamental Law was here, which you demanded to make a fundamental law amendment, you didn't vote for it. Gábor Vona told me you were traitors. From now on, how can anyone take any of your suggestions seriously, since you made this proposal? Every example I've listed, you've done. Plus, how do you want men to retire after 40 years of employment when you don't support women? They did not support our legislative amendment to the family policy system, which allowed women to retire after 40 years of employment; you did not vote for this. I don't want to read who isn't sitting here with you today. [[Z. Carpathian Daniel: Read it!]] Then here's your future coalition partner, the Socialist Party. The thing is, Lajos Korózs, I have to tell you that if you didn't mess with the pension law between 1994 and 1996, then the person who started the job at the age of 20 would be retired, please, after 40 years of employment, because there were still 60 years of retirement for men and 55 years for women. This was first modified by you between 1994 and 1998 and then successfully increased to 65 in 2009. [[Lajos Korózs: You're talking nonsense, sit down.]] I'm not talking nonsense, that's right, I'm sorry, it was during the Horn government, and you were also a member of those who not only voted in favour of the retirement age increase... [[Lajos Korózs: Very well! Dr. Bence Rétvári: He's doing it now!]] Please, I'll tell you exactly the date, 2009. On the 11th of month V, but even with that, they took away the 13th month's pension. From now on, how do they take you, any of you, seriously? [[Lajos Korózs: He's lying!]]
u2016-11-29-176	Congressman Koros! I am warning you, too, Congressman, and if I ever warn you again, I will withdraw.
u2016-11-29-177	To take you, either of you seriously, by the electorate, when you keep doing exactly the opposite when you're on the government, like you promised? In fact, Jobbik didn't even have to go to government, because as a opposition party, he's already changing all his promises and turning them around. Apparently, you're on exactly the same string, something is promised at some point, and then if fate doesn't make it popular enough or it can't be done by government, you'll change your mind quickly and do something else in this situation. Of course, this is your right, and I think the Hungarian electorate can see well that you, both parties, are frivolous and frivolous in your promises, and we, on the government's side, continue to ensure that women can retire after 40 years of employment, and that people from the pension system are given a decent pension increase, and that we are able to raise their pension as much as possible every year. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties. Dr. István Józsa: Bravo!]]
u2016-11-29-178	Thank you very much. Mr István Józsa is coming from the MSZP Group. [[18.50]]
u2016-11-29-179	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I'm a little touched, I'll tell you honestly, in the previous comments, because it's really touching to have someone with this experience provide pensioners with a decent pension increase of 0.9 per cent and put it in a morning radio interview - the Prime Minister - that it might be 1.6 per cent. If one considers this worthy, then about his entire speech is somewhere so worthy of the decent care of pensioners. So shame on you, Congressman, you shouldn't have done that.
u2016-11-29-180	Congressman, I warn you to apologize. You can't tell a fellow Member to be ashamed because he said something. [[Z. Carpathian Daniel: But why shouldn't he say it? He's a traitor!]]
u2016-11-29-181	In the public discourse, I can safely say, because he used the word "deservable care," I said that this was unworthy, and if someone uses an unworthy approach instead of a worthy approach, I can ask him with the words I have spoken. I am very sorry for Mr President's authority to override this. As president, you can, but I'm not gonna apologize for that. In the last six years, Fidesz has made a fundamental change in the area of pension systems. And it's quite amazing what Secretary Retvári says that they're going to make a confession by torture. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: What is torture?]] And then you tell the court that you volunteered to confess. You have blackmailed three million people into the public pension system, threatened that if they stay in the private pension system, they will not receive any benefits. Please read your own words. Congresswoman said she'd protect the pensioners. We see how you were protected, so what you're saying. So, there's a minimum of integrity to communication. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: That's right. I should.]] So, somehow, for the text you've written, at least have something to do with what you're about to say. So they didn't leave their money voluntarily and singing from the private pension fund, it was a real savings you took from them and forced them into the state system. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: As a member of the MSZP.]] So I'm asking you to use these terms in a more moderate manner, because maybe that's what decency would require. We believe that the change in the pension system has taken place in the wrong direction, in an unfair direction. In a modern country, change should take place in the spirit of long-term sustainability and along the lines of social rights, while recognising and guaranteeing acquired rights. On the other hand, you have violated rights, you have acquired rights, you have brought hundreds of thousands into an unworthy and much worse situation than before.Since 2010, the government has actually taken these steps away from the pension system, not the modernisation, simply the fiscal aspects. As we know demographic trends, we need more strategic thinking if we are to think about a sustainable pension system. According to Eurostat data, the European Corp indicates a noticeable ageing of society as a whole: in 2015, the proportion of children will decrease by 15.6 percent, after a few decades, by a few tenths of a percentage, while the current working age population will decrease from 66 per cent to 56 per cent over the next 30 years. In this context, the proportion of the population in retirement age may rise from around 18% to 28%. In this situation, it would be important for you not to chase air castles, but to give real programs to pensioners. In contrast to strategic thinking, you have developed your thoughts along certain twists. The Fidesz government ruled over a million people out of the pension system backwards by setting them up as scapegoats and humiliating many. In the Széll Kálmán plan, it was determined in advance that they would want to save HUF 190 billion by the end of 2013, for example, in disability care. They wanted to do this by excluding anyone who could. The purpose of the Cabinet was to rehabilitate 150,000 people and declare them fit to work again. This resulted in rather shameful and humiliating situations. It is not understandable why the three-pillar pension system, which was previously introduced, was so firmly committed. Probably to make that HUF 3000 billion private pension fund savings disappear. The first pillar was the public pension system, the traditional distribution system. The second pillar was the private pension fund system, behind which there was real savings, which you have made disappear, which has clearly made the outlook for the pension system weaker. While the third pillar is the voluntary private pension fund system. Luckily, you're helping this today with some tax incentives, and it'd be bad enough if you even decided to do that. At the same time, it is not difficult to see that when a system is on more feet, it is much more stable than when it is on two legs. In some professions, the three-legged chair became symbolic as the most stable seating device. They weren't telling the truth when they were talking about individual accounts. They promised individual accounts and lied to private pension fund members about returns, they didn't turn out that way, they took the years of the crisis, otherwise they brought much better results. They believed that people's own savings were not in good hands on pension accounts, so they shifted them from real private pension fund savings to a state benefit based on promises. This is a huge problem, because it is clear that the state distribution system may not be able to serve pensioners if the current demographic trends persist. At last summer's conference, the trade unions stressed that the current rigid pension system, which allows men and women born after 57 to retire equally after 65 years, does not take into account countless living conditions. So, for my part, I very much agree with what the leader of the LMP Group has said that flexibility should be taken towards the possibility of both men and women retiring and basically along the lines of gender equality. The fact that we are proposing 41 years in the version presented by my fellow Member, Mr Lajos Korózs, is not 40 years, but that there is essentially an economic approach, but the point must be to move towards flexibility. I am very sorry that Congressman Csizi left the room, because he completely misunderstood the non-communication, rather than the comment he quoted, about the possibility of creative ageing. [[19.00]] As a fidesz congressman, you can only think that there is a rigid system in which everyone has to do this. The European approach is that those who have health, pleasure and opportunity can continue to work after 65 years, and who, as a result of their life, have had a much more difficult job, their health does not allow them to retire fairly in the face of individual needs. We support this and ask the others to consider this with due empathy. Thank you, Mr. President.
u2016-11-29-182	Thank you very much, Congressman. From the Fidesz Group, Mrs Mónika Dunai is next. Here you go, Congresswoman, you have the floor.
u2016-11-29-183	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, It's kind of hard to argue that our debate partners say that today, the exact opposite of that yesterday, and who knows what they'll say tomorrow. And perhaps even worse, what you say, and what you did a few years ago, doesn't entirely cover each other. The MSZP has also raised the retirement age when the MSZP governs, but the real value of pensions has not been increased, the 13th month pension has been abolished, the visit fee and hospital daily allowance have been introduced and the overhead costs skyrocketed. But when they go into opposition, they suddenly forget everything, they get amnesia. After all this, even their own misguided decisions are to be tied to the necks of the current governing parties, Fidesz and KDNP. And Jobbik is unbelievable on this issue, as on many other issues, because women did not vote for a 40-year retirement period at the time. It is not possible that if women were not supported to retire for 40 years, they would now support the.M.O. 40. And I go on: if you say today that you support men's retirement after 40 years of employment, then what is the assurance that if we vote on this tomorrow, you would say yes? [[Tamás Sneider: You have to try it! Check, check, check.]] I mean, it's going back and forth, yeah-no, it's constantly changing in terms of speech and writing. I think, fellow Members, that this is a game and a game with pensioners. The question of pensioners is not a game. I would ask my honourable fellow Members not to play games with pensioners and not to use them as a tool for their own political, power games. Ladies and gentlemen, This measure is primarily, and this has been said several times today by our lead speaker, not a pension policy measure on our part, but primarily a family policy measure. Both the Fundamental Law and all other European legislation make this possible. It allows women to recognise the victims of childbearing, which they do not only for their own families, but also for the whole Hungarians, our country. The aim of the programme is to recognise the double, family and workplace load of women with long working relationships. Grandmothers are given the opportunity to help young people return to work as soon as possible in the care of grandchildren. Ladies and gentlemen, These measures involved more than 180,000 people, 180,000 women, but through them 180,000 families, children, husbands and grandchildren have been helped by the introduction of the measure since 2011. Ladies and gentlemen, Every human and every society is characterized by how they deal with children and older generations. This, on the one hand, means financial stability, which is why we have introduced and are going to continue to reduce the VAT on basic foods year after year, which is why we are developing our hospitals, which is why we are reducing the price of medicines, and therefore we are giving young people and older people holiday and other benefits and benefits through the Elizabeth programme, and so we are trying our best to preserve the real value of pensions, and that is why we have done so and we are proposing to increase this increase in the next year. In addition, it is very important to help the elderly, the pre-retirement people to keep their jobs. This material and physical stability is also meant to continuously strengthen and improve our public security. So all of this means a kind of material, physical stability for pensioners. On the other hand, it is also our duty to give moral respect to the elderly. We must respect, fellow Members, the elderly so that no one puts them at the heart of political games. However, I agree with the initiativers that we need to address the issue of the elderly, this generation, whether pensioners or people of active age. Here we have statistics, but I would like to add a few more. According to WHO, between 2000 and 2050, the world population over the age of 60 is growing from 11 to 22 percent, from 605 million to 2 billion. The rise will be the most dramatic in low and middle income countries. By 2050, 80 percent of the elderly will be living in these countries. On 1 January 2016, the number of people aged 65 and over from the population of Hungary was approximately 1 million 796 thousand, about 18.3% of the population. The population aged 60 and over increased from nearly 19 per cent to more than 25 per cent between 1990-2015 and is projected to reach 29 per cent by 2060. In recent decades, the internal age mix of older people has also changed typically with the increase in the proportion of older people over 80, which has increased from 2.7 percent to 4.2 percent between 2001 and 2015. The number of healthy years expected at the age of 65 has also increased. This is welcome, and this is also our goal, with an average of 0.4 years between 2010 and 2014. Those who reach the age of 65 will improve their life prospects significantly. On average, they live 16.5 years longer. Both life expectancy at birth and life expectancy at 65 years of age are constantly increasing. Ladies and gentlemen, The measures taken by the government in recent years are all aimed at this growth. It is important for us that the older generation can live an active and fruitful life for as long as possible. The growing proportion of older people in the population obliges us to develop measures and programmes to ensure better health for older people. We must treat the resources of the elderly well and in value. [[19.10]] We all need the knowledge of the elderly and the experience of the elderly. The government's older policy focuses on increasing the well-being of older and older age groups and improving their social activity, which we strive to achieve on a number of levels, such as by involving them more widely in volunteering - this was mentioned by Erzsébet Schmuck as an important topic, and we agree with that - by developing their community life and promoting the cooperation of generations. This will be supported through proposals and targeted programmes. Older people are valuable. It cannot be regarded as a burden for this age group. There is a need for a change of perspective on the part of society as a whole, including on the part of the elderly themselves, when it comes to old age. It is necessary to break up with the concept in which the elderly appear merely as persons in need of care. In fact, life expectancy gains in health also mean that retirement years can be spent actively, motivated and productively. It is also important that relations between the elderly and younger generations in the family be as close as possible, and that there is a bonding power between children, grandchildren and grandparents. Ladies and gentlemen, The possibility for women to retire after 40 years of employment [[Lajos Korózs: Man!]] Part of the family support system. It is subject to this and that is why we have brought various family support benefits, family tax schemes, tax incentives, various family services, such as nursery, kindergarten and protective care, home-building support or housing assistance, CSOK, and women's preferential retirement. This needs to be seen together, and it needs to be treated together, part of a unit. We can be proud and proud of the unique use of almost 5 percent of GDP in the world to finance our family support system. Ladies and gentlemen, The combined effect of the single-key tax system and the introduction of the family discount has left over HUF 3000 billion in the family since 2010; HUF 3000 billion! I would like to mention one important thing here. Erzsébet Schmuck told me about the one-key VAT. [[Schmuck Erzsébet: Personal Income Tax!]] The percentage of single-key taxes that my fellow opposition Members are talking about is never added. Personal income tax is not about the number of keys, but about the size of them. Could be multi-key with a VAT [[Dr. István Józsa: Szia!]] as it was before 2010, and it was over 30 percent. [[Dr. István Józsa: No VAT! Tamás Sneider: Other 35 European countries do not think so!]] There has also been talk in today's debate about creating a balance between work and family. [[Lajos Korózs: It wasn't! Defiance from the opposition benches. Dr. István Józsa: Only you say it! The president's gonna ring the bell.]] That is, what we do to help people who can't get older before retirement. I would like to remind you that, as of 1 January 2013, an action plan for the protection of jobs has been put in place to assist the most vulnerable groups of workers. This includes unskilled people, including age groups, under 25, male, female, no difference between them and workers over 55 years of age. Here, men and women receive the same assistance, the same public assistance. In this scheme, we are providing support to reduce employers' labour costs in order to increase employment. As a result, from 2013 until the end of 2015, around HUF 357 billion of job protection benefits were used in the competition sector, after a total of 870 thousand employees. We help men and women, or men and women, equally in the framework of the job protection action. Ladies and gentlemen, There has not even been a mention of the 40+ programme for women, which was launched on 15 October 2013. [[Dr. László Kács: Not because that is not what the debate is about! That could be the reason.]] This means, once again, that we are helping the age group who have been most exposed and are still exposed to the fact that they have a very difficult position over 55 years of age. I do not know if my fellow Members will receive such letters. Jobbik already quoted male letters. I do it and we do it. [[Lajos Korózs: Get women's letters!]] to receive female letters, to receive letters from women. I think we can agree that, by 2008-09, the most vulnerable age group was women over 55 who complained - and the statistical data confirm - that they are losing jobs once businesses have ceased to exist and that they do not have much or a very small number of jobs. Well, these action plans are designed to help their location. And in addition to the fact that if women decide that they want to go and get a job, we can help them with that, and if they think that they want to take a pension after 40 years of employment, then she can decide to live with it and retire at a reduced rate, or [[Dr. László Kács: Or not!]] use the employer's benefits provided by the State to find the job. Indeed, we have solved the problem of the masses of an age group who have been plunged into inactivity and unemployment by the 2,000 years. Ladies and gentlemen, In conclusion, I would like to say once again that, both today's debate and outside the walls of Parliament, we should be careful that pensioners are being used for political purposes. [[Dr. Csaba Gyüre: No one but Fidesz!]] If it is the opposition's initiative to think together about the situation of the elderly, we can be partners. [[Tamás Sneider: We're talking about workers! We're not talking about pensioners. We're talking about employees.]] But raising questions that the raisers didn't support a few years ago is, I think, an unbelievable and frivolous thing. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2016-11-29-184	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. From the Jobbik Group, Mr Sebestyén, who edits, is next. Here you go, Congressman.
u2016-11-29-185	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. I'll say it slower so even Mónika Duna can understand. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: Show more respect!]] We have already said this a few times in the debate: we abstained from adopting the law because Fidesz deceived its constituents. He didn't accomplish what he promised, and 70,000 women were out of this opportunity compared to his original promise. Cut! I hope that this has made sense now, that we can finally move on to this and talk about the specific problem and the issues raised. I'd like to say a few more things about the debate. What you keep doing is pointing back to the period before 2010: how the MSZP raised the retirement age, how the MSZP reduced the pension, how the MSZP abolished the 13th month pension. [[Lajos Korózs: After six years!]] They've been on the wheel for six years. If you do not agree with the steps taken by the MSZP to raise the retirement age, why did you not reduce the retirement age in 2010 when they came to government? If you didn't agree that MSZP terminated the 13th month pension, why didn't you return the 13th month pension? If they didn't do it, then don't scold them for what happened before 2010, because you're just as guilty of the system as they are. The lied, missed 25 years is the same responsibility you have for the MSZP. You can laugh, you won't laugh so much after 2018 and then you'll see, because the actual accountability will come if Jobbik wins the election. Maybe that's why they're so vehement, they're attacking us so hard, and that's why they keep saying things because they're afraid of it. There's something to be afraid of, and I'd like to remember that in parentheses. In his speech, Peter Csizi mentioned the need to look at man. We heard very nice words about looking at people, not looking at a group, winning them with cheap promises and gaining popularity. I'm telling you, you have to look at people. Why didn't you warn your government when you lifted early retirement pensions when you killed the invalid pension like a lawnmower? Why didn't they look at you then? Why did they use the lawnmower principle? Why have early retirement pensions been abolished? [[19.20]] Yeah, because it would have been much more difficult to review the system than the disability pension and the early retirement pension, to filter out stowaways and to filter out those who are illegally using the benefits? Would it have been more complicated than early retirement to develop a system that is entitled to use it because it is working under vulnerable working conditions or working in a work area where the body will soon wear out, so that this system can remain? So who looks at you and doesn't look at you? Of course, I know they look at people, I said in my two-minute speech: Lőrinc Mészáros, Árpád Habony, Andy Vajna - they look at them to make their pockets as full as possible, along with Antal Rogán. They're looking at them. It's time to watch the voters. When I returned to the man 40 plus, during the debate, I realized that there was an interesting family model within the Fidesz-KDNP. So the Fidesz-KDNP family model is that a father with children goes home after work, breaks open beer, sits down in front of the TV and watches the game. In the fidesz family model, this is the job of a man in the household. According to the better-looking family model, this is not his job, and although I know that women do a lot more on the altar of family work, they do a better part of raising children, but not to the extent that they refuse to retire even men with an extra 40. If we say that with so much difference, then we say that this fidesz family model, TV and beer nights, at the end of the day. And why do I deserve it? Early retirement pensions have been abolished. In most cases, when early retirements were terminated, men were deprived of their rights, in most cases men were employed in the jobs that had been reported by the retirement of early retirement. This would also support the need for men to be able to retire after 40 years of service. And then I'd like to get to my own area of expertise, the social care system, the social sector, what a man is exposed to there, and we might as well see that the difference between male and female work in the social care system. Let us not talk about the fact that, because of the pitiful conditions of earnings, a man is no longer very capable of working in the social care system, no matter how much he is committed to it, because in today's society there is still a need for him to make more, if possible, but unfortunately, he is very difficult to do so in the public sector as a social worker. But if we look at social workers with secondary education, whether we buy a nursing home where people with disabilities live, let's see that if they are lucky enough to be working with male caregivers there, then we know very well that most of the physical work in this case falls on these male workers, who are, in particular translated and projected on specific work tasks, the ones who are the ones who raise the most patients, who are involved in other transports and others. And we could also give examples of the circumstances that may have caused them to wear out earlier. Whether you look at the work done in the open area or if you look at other physical work not in the social sector but hard, you say that they are entitled to a pension after 40 years of service, especially when you consider that in many cases these people are entitled to use the pension for 40 years as men. They have largely done physical work in their lives, and we are very well aware of the ageing and weariness of 40 years of physical work, whether we think of muscles or joints, or if we are not talking about physical work, but about other psychologically stressful work, which is often the case in the social sector, where we are talking not about physical, but about mental and psychological wear, which also confirms that we are giving men the benefit to retire after 40 years of employment. So all I want you to do is ask you to put aside what you have printed on A4 paper, the order issued to you now that you have to defile against us, lie and throw mud at us, start having an actual and worthwhile debate, and tell your senses, not your political, but your senses, why you don't support men's retirement after 40 years. Thank you for listening. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2016-11-29-186	Thank you very much, Congressman. Secretary Bence Rétvári asked for the floor. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2016-11-29-187	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Honourable Congressman, Dear House, I would like to speak to you, because you seem to like to mock the Fidesz-KDNP congresswoman. First, during Katalin Csöbör's speech, you began your speech by insulting Congresswoman Mónika Dunai, our fellow Member, so that you would say it slowly so that she could understand it and the like. On their behalf, I would like to ask myself that Jobbik is constantly trying to make fun of the Members of the Fidesz-KDNP speaking in today's debate, so please refrain from doing so later. [[Dr. László György Lukács: Learning.]] As well as the threatening tone they sometimes allow themselves here. You say you have to look at people. I imagine Jobbik in 2010, as you look at the man, when you talk about nothing else all day, of course, now that word is forbidden, I see it is forbidden, Gábor Vona from the Jobbik dictionary, and who says it can be disciplined in the party, or even removed, but before, say, three or four or five years ago, the word Gypsy crime was in your dictionary every day, nothing else was spoken about here in Parliament but this. [[Intercoms from Jobbik's ranks.]] So that threatening tone of voice matched Jobbik's. Now, in other words, they have the same style here in Parliament. I believe that we have also tried with facts, with the good news of today's pension increase, a raise, and with the good news of the Erzsébet voucher worth 10 thousand forints to the elderly and pensioners, to present the arguments here in the debate. I think it would also be nice to hear your opinion on whether, for example, you support the proposal of the Elderly Council that the Government will discuss tomorrow, so that the rate of pension increase is higher, that every pensioner will receive HUF 10 000, or that Jobbik may not have an opinion on this, and that you are not in favour of these issues, in which you can express an opinion on the position of the Elderly Council. We'll be curious about your position as well. All I ask is that our fellow Members be not insulted, mocked, and threaten no one in this Parliament. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-11-29-188	Thank you very much. Dear Secretary of State, I'm asking you, other times when I'm chairing, you don't even use this kind of criminal structure as a reference, okay? Thank you very much. [[Dániel Z. Carpathian: Shame on you, Secretary of State.]] There are two-minute speeches coming up. Next up is Miklós Soltész, from the KDNP Group. Here you go.
u2016-11-29-189	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, From the words of István Józsa a little, from the words of a socialist Member, he thought it was torture, a little overhearing, or a Freudian saying. I would like to tell you to look at the statistics, pensions have increased by 10 percent in real terms between 2010 and 16 and this is due to the fact that we have saved the pension fund at all. And that's another question that Jobbik is constantly saying here, and now, I don't even know how many minutes of their lectures still don't tell me why they want to put women in a worse position than men. Isn't that what you've done to our congresswoman here, that's what's in your mind and in your actions? Why would they want to put them in a worse position? [[Cutter Sebestyén: Tell us why we should put them in a worse position!]] And if you care so much about a vote or a debate like this, then explain... [[Cutter Sebestyén interrupts. The president's ringing the bell.]] Explain to me why six years ago you did not vote for a proposal that is now 180,000 women... [[Editor Sebestyén: That's why I said it slowly. Dániel Z. Carpathian intervenes.]]
u2016-11-29-190	Mr. Cutman, I warned you once. Go on, Congressman Soltes.
u2016-11-29-191	Thank you very much. I would just like to say to Mr Editing that when you talk about different family models, please vote with your party next time on a constitutional amendment to say that we will stop a world you have talked about. We were gonna stop a Muslim world, which, by the way, interestingly, he listens to a lot of things about his family model. [[Editor Sebestyén: Muslims don't drink beer, their religion forbids it. Dániel Z. Carpathian: The bonds are sold to Muslims!]] But back to the question, explain why you did not support 180,000 women and mothers with the support that we have provided through the Women's 40. And I would like to ask you again what Tamás Sneider meant by the fact that representatives of Gypsy origin are happy to spend the social contribution tax. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] [[19.30]]
u2016-11-29-192	Thank you very much, Congressman. Mr. Tamás Sneider, Vice President, from the Jobbik Group. Here you go, Mr. Vice President.
u2016-11-29-193	I was thinking of Congressman Flórian Farkas, who is your fellow Member, who is not here at the moment - if you really wanted to know the name. I'm sure you've never heard of any problems, you've never heard of how many cases before the whole country-world are in the process of dealing with the current leaders of the Roma minority self-government. But if I've had a word for two minutes, I'd really like to ask you now to give me an answer on what you're saying to men, what you're saying to 40-50-60-year-old men, because at the moment, you haven't said anything yet. It's a cabaret that's going on here, but don't think this cabaret is going to be so very positive for you, because you're going to make this day, obviously, but it's going to be news in the country. So I know that the Habony media is huge, sufficient for many things, but not enough for everything, which has been happening in recent days, even in recent weeks. I'm asking you now to have a serious debate in the short time left. Give me figures, give me arguments, give me foreign data, lots of things. Isn't it true that you couldn't put anything in your hands against our arguments? That's terrible. I've never seen a political debate like this in Parliament, and I've been here for six years. We have already held three political debates, and I have also presided over it for a very long time. They all went down in a fair, normal way, and once or twice I had to order a politician who didn't get to the point. Allow me, Mr President, I do not criticize you, because I do not criticize your Presidency at all, but obviously the Jobbik faction and the opposition are also a little more vehement on this issue, because at the moment we have not heard one word about the subject, and there has been a time before, you were not here, Mr President, when I would have ordered Members to come to the point. So it is unacceptable and shameful, after all, what is happening here at the moment! Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2016-11-29-194	Thank you very much. The two-minute speech will be followed by Ms Erzsébet Schmuck. Here you go, Madam Group Leader.
u2016-11-29-195	Thank you, Mr. President. I would first like to respond to my colleague Soltes. My fellow Member, if you had listened or listened to what I said as the lead speaker of the LMP, so on the content, you wouldn't have said that LMP would support this form, the 40" proposal that Jobbik submitted. However, I have said that LMP considers the problem to be real and considers it important to develop a flexible pension system and some form of early retirement. In fact, I've even brought information that our main problem with the,, Men 40, is that it upsets the balance of the pension system. So if you had listened, you wouldn't have said that. I would also like to respond to Mónika Dunai. The OECD has now published a new study on income inequalities, which states that the role of the state in redistribution has decreased most in Hungary between 2010-14, and that, in contrast, income differences have increased the most, and one of the main causes of this is the single-key personal income tax system. You can close your eyes, cover your eyes. Yes, single-key personal income tax has played a significant role in the fact that Hungarian society has been torn apart: the richer, the higher incomers have become even richer, and the poor are even poorer. Sooner or later, they will have to realize that there is no other way to restore multi-key personal income tax, as it means that there is no taxation in the lower lane, according to the LMP proposal, up to the minimum wage. So if a person has an income of HUF 1 million, he has a salary as Secretary of State, then he doesn't tax up to the minimum wage, between the minimum wage and the average wage by 12 percent and then 24 percent, which means that if one doesn't exceed HUF 500,000, if these bands are added up, he's still better off than in the current system. Yeah, the poor and the worse should be helped, and we shouldn't have all these political blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah. We were supposed to talk about content today, too. [[Applause from the ranks of Jobbik and MSZP.]]
u2016-11-29-196	Thank you very much, Madam Group leader. On a two-minute comment, Mr Péter Csizi, from the Fidesz Group. Here you go.
u2016-11-29-197	I admire Mrs Erzsébet Schmuck when she says that politics shouldn't be blah, but a recording of that fellow Member, Tamás Sneider, was published. [[Tamás Sneider: Quote it well, because some have already paid for it!]] Which, by the way, he confirmed to several media, which means he didn't deny that he actually spoke on that tape. [[Tamás Sneider: I was suing!]] Where, at a forum in Szekszárd, he mentioned, I quote, that without pensioners, there is no choice, and pensioners want peace and quiet, it is necessary to be a kind child so that pensioners can vote for Jobbik, and, by the way, it has also derailed Viktor Orbán's mother. So when you say, Congresswoman, that you don't need the blah, you talk to the adjacent Jobbik fraction, which has brought all this political glaze to us today, and this is practically part of your cute campaign. When Mr Sebestyén Csápó dares to say as an opposition representative to the MPs that they have deceived their electorate, that Fidesz has deceived its constituents, that it is time to pay attention to the electorate. [[Intercoms from Jobbik's ranks.]] then, honourable Member, since the introduction of the Women's 40, there has been an election in 2010. You're third in your own constituency, by the way. [[Z. Carpathian Daniel: Look at yourself! It's so out of quality, it's physical pain!]] [[Intercoms from Jobbik's ranks.]] At that time, honourable Member, since the introduction of the "Women 40" programme, there has been an election in 2010. You're third in your own constituency, by the way. (Daniel Z. Carpathian: Look at yourself! It's so out of quality that it's physical pain!) The Jobbik candidates, who are here now, and I'm here to identify you, are finished in third place, finished in second place, finished in fourth place. (Intercoms from Jobbik's ranks. ) Congressmen, when you're... [[The president's ringing the bell.]] We are talking about the 2010 elections. Congressmen, when they attack the right so aggressively, they say that we have deceived the electorate. [[Z. Carpathian Daniel: What's your big mouth for? Seriously! Why is your face so big?]] Why is it that the individual constituency districts have been won in order, and most of us have been trusted? [[It's a rare round of applause from the pro-government ranks.]]
u2016-11-29-198	Thank you very much, Congressman. On behalf of the government, Secretary of State Bence Rétvári asked for the floor. Here you go.
u2016-11-29-199	Thank you very much. Ladies and Gentlemen, What you said in your speech... [[Peter Csizi intervenes. Z. Carpathian Daniel: I am talking to you, that you are an unlucky man! Peter Csizi intervenes. The president's ringing the bell.]] What you said in your speech based on OECD data is a typical case of opposition distortions [[Dániel Z. Carpathian: Do you look down on people and have a big mouth?]] Since you said that income differences are increasing in Hungary because of the single-key tax, and you refer to the OECD study, the OECD study that has been looking at income developments since 2007 and you believe that income differences have increased since 2007 because we introduced family-type, single-key taxation from 2011. On the other hand, if we are to quote the OECD study literally, not only with such poetic exaggerations, we are trying to pass cross-border judgments, it says, honourable Member, that, in real terms between 2010 and 2014, the labour incomes have increased to the greatest extent in Hungary after Estonia, Latvia and Chile. And if you continue to read this period a little further, honourable Member, you can also see that between 2010-14 - not for the period 2007-10, but for the period 2010-14 - it says that the 10 percent with the lowest earnings, i.e. the lowest decylise for society, based on the change in income, is a 13 percent increase in domestic income, so according to the OECD, the 10 percent with the lowest earning income increased by 13 percent, which is much higher than the top 10 percent, the highest decylis, the unique among OECD countries. [[Erzsébet Schmuck: What does it mean in absolute terms?]] So the OECD says that the wages, incomes and wages of the lowest earners have increased to the greatest extent, and this is unique among the OECD countries. Then you stand up here, recall the 2007 data, and say that after 2011, the scissors were wide open. Madam Member, do not confuse the period 2007-2010 and 2010-14, because then you draw incorrect conclusions and deceive many people. I suggest that you not only highlight a sentence or a sentence, but rather read the whole part, and be proud that the performance of the Hungarian people has led to Hungary's growth in real terms between 2010-14, following Estonia, Latvia and Chile. In Hungarian, it is worth the most to work in Hungary, because, given the less tax deduction you are currently criticizing, and said how good it would be to have a 25% tax rate and not a 15% tax rate, the LMP has finally stated the percentage you want; the OECD says that the money will finally remain with the people, and the state will not take it away from it. And thank our fellow Member, Péter Csizi, for his speech. I think it would have been good if this sentence had actually been said earlier in this debate, because it shows precisely that this kind of change from Jobbik's point of view is not a change based on conviction, but an election mathematics. They said they wanted to win an election, and that's why they're making up a message that they're making out to retirees. They are probably as serious as their previous proposals, from which they all danced, even when they talked about amending the Fundamental Law. [[19.40]] They also danced out of their own proposal, and so they bring it not from the heart, but from color to Parliament, but they will obviously have a lot of comments about it, but I think this kind of self-revealing, this kind of confession exactly shows that for Jobbik it's just a recorded pose, and as it's a recorded pose, obviously this pose can be different from second to second. In recent months and years, we have seen that Jobbik can change its own position on any issue from membership of the EU to free Sunday, and here he himself argues against what he argued six years ago, or for which he also wrote an election programme, such as a two-pillar conversion of the three-pillar pension system. So I'm asking everyone to quote data exactly, and to quote exactly the time period for which the OECD says. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-11-29-200	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. A proper speech will come from the Fidesz Group, Mr József Kovács. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor. [[It's grumpy. The president's ringing the bell.]]
u2016-11-29-201	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Mr. Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, The government strives to provide the highest possible level of healthcare for Hungarians and to ensure their balanced functioning. Since the change of regime, we have made the largest development of more than HUF 600 billion in recent years, in which hospitals have renewed across the country, we have spent more than HUF 104 billion on the acquisition of new machinery and equipment, although it is true that it is primarily in rural hospitals, but in a significant part XXI. Patients can heal under centuries of age. Unfortunately, the left can't do anything other than pissing and cheering. Together with Jobbik, it would use people to take care of the health care system to the brink of collapse in 2006, to withdraw HUF 650 billion from health care, to shut down hospitals, to thousands of health workers on the streets, while business aspects were still taking place at this time. The Gyurcsány government wanted to introduce paid health care, and this has not yet been said in the 2006 election campaign. The first step of introducing a paid health system was to introduce a visitation fee and a daily allowance, and in the social referendum people said no, and they also prevented the whole health insurance system and hospitals from being handed over to private hands, which they were determined to do. During the socioliberalist governments, we also had very serious problems with the pharmaceutical system. I would like to mention, first of all, the patical liberalisation and the problems of the companies that appear with it that we still bear the burden of today. Everyone remembers that they wanted to sell drugs in various places outside the pharmacy, in stores, in gas stations and in various places, and according to professional criticism, the quality of the drugs was reduced by liberalisation and the price of the drugs increased. As a result of the Fidesz-KDNP government's drug financing steps introduced from autumn 2011, the price of 2 thousand medicinal products - called double blinds - decreased on average by 35 percent in Hungary. Mostly the elderly have been affected by this issue and the state-supported medicines. In 2011, the population's burden was reduced by 7.5 billion per year, the supply of medicines is clearly mainly for older people, and thousands of forints of savings could be realised per month in the case of medicines with the most favourable fee. Some examples are very short: one fifth of antihypertensive drugs, from 3 thousand to 600 forints, from 2200 forints to 600 forints for blood fat lowering medicines, and from 2100 forints to 450 forints for various thrombosis-preventing medicines. This intervention went so well that, with the drop of 7.5 billion in 2011, the annual reduction in patient burden in the field of drug supply was already HUF 10.5 billion in 2012. Why am I talking about this? Because this issue clearly means helping people with older and older illness, which, as I said, could result in several thousand forints of savings per month. I myself am a practicing dispenser, I buy my mother's medicine, and I pay 5 thousand forints less for her monthly medications than I did before. During 2014, a number of other medicines came: diuretic medicines decreased by 23.2 percent, anti-asthma medicines decreased by 10.9 percent, dermatological medicines decreased by 20.1 percent, and gastrointestinal and metabolic diseases - often mentioned - by 17.6 percent. In this way, it can be concluded that it was possible to save approximately HUF 3-5 thousand per month and cost savings in this area. Previous governments have always tried to reduce the drug register by raising retail charges. As regards the subsidy rates, the overall reduction was a reduction from 90 per cent to 80 per cent of the aid, which obviously had to be increased back to 90 per cent. As a result, in the previous period 2002-2010 - these are fact data, i.e. statistics, not a political approach - among the subsidised medicines in public health care, which obviously affects the most disadvantaged people, from HUF 72 billion to HUF 132 billion the retail burden on subsidised medicines increased, which means that people paid HUF 60 billion more for medicines at this time. Overall, it can be concluded that Fidesz-KDNP has always been in favour of older people, we have not allowed the introduction of paid health care and we have radically reduced the price of medicines. The vice-president of the Parliament asked what we wanted to say to this age group. Our message is to look after them, to protect them, and to provide them with safe care. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-11-29-202	Thank you very much, Congressman. Mr László Teleki is coming from the MSZP Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2016-11-29-203	A Gypsy representative from the Hungarian Socialist Party. Today, when I started this day, I didn't think it would be about Gypsy crime at this item on the agenda, but I think that in politics nothing is impossible, and I am very disappointed, by the way, because I think that this topic, this item on the agenda, is about if you work 40 years, then it doesn't matter where you belong, be appreciated. I do not want to speak specifically about the Roma, but I represent their target group in full, because when it comes to pensions, let us be fair and talk about the item on the agenda that is ahead of us. [[19.50]] It is important to talk about it and that emotions do not try to take me away, because many people in Hungary today do not know what a wellness is, they do not know what a sauna is, they do not know what a long weekend is, and they can still be classified. Because if you knew these things, you might be right, my fellow Member, Mónika Dunai, who said some thoughts about the coral, because then people over 65 might actually live 16 years longer. But the people we're talking about, they don't go to the sauna, they don't go to the steam bath, they don't go to the spa, they don't go to the spa, they don't live to be 65 years old, or they just live to be between 60 and 65 years old. Therefore, I think it is entirely right to expect that people who have worked hard for 40 years in the mines - I know that they are not so much now, but there are still age groups that can be affected - in the construction sector or in the construction of road networks, in the night, day, winter and summer, they have to be out on the road and they have to fix the road or they have to be built, well, think that they are 55, 58 or 60 years old - but I could even ask the government that question - how can they do it. It's very difficult for them to perform, I'll tell you honestly. When we were preparing for this debate day, a lot of people contacted me in my constituency and asked me to participate in this debate, because the region from which I came was very, very involved in retiring as soon as possible, not because they didn't want to work, but because they couldn't work. They can't work because physical inability has reached them. It is therefore a very important question to provide information on how many people would be affected. We've already talked about this here, but you can tell us from the government how much money it would cost, and why there is no source to provide it. 'Cause if there's a 24-carat carpet Money to the Castle, then - I don't want to be a populist - let those who have worked for 40 years in such living conditions go away and live at least 15 to 20 years in honor of the family. If you say that the family support model is very important, then I would like to tell you that not only the mother is part of the family support model, but also the father. Therefore, I would consider it very important that the representatives of the government take care of both sides, because the father is needed in a family as well as the mother is needed. Therefore, why should there be a distinction in this case, especially for those who have actually spent their time in physical work, the 40 years? However, I would also like to say a few thoughts about Roma workers. Believe me, there are a lot of people who reach or are at the age of reaching 40 years of employment, but they can't work anymore. There are a lot of people in my environment in Nagykanizsa who are on sick money every week, every month, because they worked 37 to 38 years, and they can't really get to work, because they have to go down to the work pit and weld a pipe or go to the road construction trench or build any other artifact. These people can't do this anymore. And believe me, there are many of these among the Roma. The reason I didn't want to separate this subject is because it should be handled in a complex way. No matter who is of which origin on this issue, the pension should be equal when it reaches 40 years of employment. Finally, I would just like to say one thing. If health prevention had been given more time, money and opportunity in the last six years, I might say today, too, that this is not necessary. But in the last six years, there has not been enough preventive measures to safeguard the health situation, which would not make me speak out and say that, yes, we need this age group that we are talking about, because Hungarian society is not in a state of health today to withstand the pressure you would like to put on them to retire after 65 years, after 42-45 years of working. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2016-11-29-204	Thank you very much, Congressman. From the Fidesz Group, Mrs Czunyiné Dr. Judit Bertalan is next, and I would like to inform the House that the KDNP Group has transferred 15 minutes of its timeframe to the Fidesz Group. I'm gonna need you to take this down. Here you go, Congresswoman.
u2016-11-29-205	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. It is difficult to find words to hear this afternoon's debate, although, quite frankly, at the beginning of the debate and when I was on the agenda, I didn't have a personal opinion other than that Jobbik felt the popularity slip in the last few weeks and months... [[Tamás Sneider: There is no such thing! But just keep talking.]] Well, it happens. Mr President, I am very happy to talk to the better Members. [[Dániel Z. Carpathian: This is an honor for me!]] Thank you, but you're gonna hear me out, because I'm gonna say it all the way. So I accept that it is not a good thing that their popularity is falling, but after the cute campaign and the uncredited actions in which they faced their earlier statements and expressed an opinion in which they often came into a self-controversation with their president - Happy fellow Member quoted a few of them - well, in this case, I accept that we need a theme that commercial media will bring up in the cute campaign and say, "Whoa, how cool Jobbik is, and at this moment they found a layer for whom, six years ago, they said together with women, that we do not support women's retirement after 40 years of employment. We do not understand why men would be supported today, nor do we understand why men would be given discounts that were not voted on before. We'd like an answer to that, but we didn't make it today. My fellow Member is waiting for an explanation on how Fidesz responds to 40 years of men's retirement. I think that 3 million 361 thousand people will choose and expect from you reason why they have not voted to amend the Fundamental Law. [[Z. Carpathian Daniel: Which one?]] which would have been concerned if you had supported it so that the forced resettlement quota could not be imposed on Hungary and the Hungarians. I think that 3 million 361,000 people still have questions for you. So much for correctness, so much for cuteness, and so much for credibility, when today we are talking about the fact that, by the way, we are constantly saying that there is nothing right in Hungary, yet they would make a promise on the account of someone else that can be redeemed - but I don't admire it from that chair - they don't know and they don't want to measure it in reality. Let us go back a little bit to the reform of the pension system and the debate on private pensions at some point in 2010-11. When I, in these benches and in this horseshoe, have not heard from you, nor have I heard from my socialist fellow Members, any reason why the private pension fund is good or even said at that time in the 2010 debate, that we will see how good it will be if they are paid, and what stability it will give anyway. Several of my fellow Members in the debate at that time, if I remember correctly, said the security of the Chilean pension reform. Well, my dear fellow Members, if you would have allowed me to do so, what would have been the case if the questions entitled "History" had not been known by history or any other science. Let me read to you first one summer and then one November news, absolutely not from the domestic press, and absolutely not from the press you have constantly citing: 200,000 Chileans protested against the new pension system. More than 200,000 Chileans have moved to the streets because that pension system... - here I no longer continue the news, the private pension system has fallen because what they promised was not realized, because the payments are below expectations. So the private pension system where you cheered has failed. 16 November 2016: thousands of protesters protested against the compulsory private pension system in Chile at protests aggravated by arson. Thank you very much, my fellow Members, no comment, so your arguments are not as coherent and consistent as they are in their whole operation over five years, two years and a month or two, since they are picking up a topic for their electoral popularity and trying irresponsiblely to stay on the surface or on the water, the consequences of which they cannot or may not be able to measure. So maybe so much for their popularity, credibility and consistency. [[20.00]] So the question remains with the possibility of your alleged discount. By the way, tell 3 million 361,000 Hungarian voters and Hungarians why they refused to defend them or defend them, why they refused to amend the Constitution, and otherwise why men should be given a discount they did not give women at the time. The pension fund is stable today, contrary to your statement, and let me repeat it again, because it is never enough to repeat it, in 2009, the then minister himself admitted that the pension fund is struggling with a deficit, the pension fund will collapse. In 2010, contrary to your statement, when the government took up its mandate, the pension fund lacked HUF 380 billion. These are the facts, fellow Members. Compared to this, the pension register is balanced today. And the change, the program that happened with the pension reform, today fulfills the Fidesz election promise to preserve the real value of pensions. Take a good look at this. And then we will not include the reduction in the value of real money, nor will we count the other benefits that my fellow Members have talked about. So pensions preserve their real value. In 2010, this was a very strong, strong and responsible commitment in terms of the country's economic situation at that time, but at the same time it was risky because the IMF held the country's neck there. We also received this as such a beautiful inheritance. That was one of the promises. [[Dr. István Hiller, vice-president of the Parliament, takes the chair.]] The other promise was that women who worked for 40 years could retire. Someone here said we didn't keep that election promise. How is that, fellow Members? Can women retire today after 40 years of employment or not? You're dismissed. Today, after 40 years of employment, women can retire. That was the election promise. [[Intercoms from Jobbik's ranks.]] Quote just exactly and nicely at this late hour, fellow Members. You can quote me at this late hour just exactly and nicely. Fidesz's election promise was that after 40 years of employment, women could retire. Today, after 40 years of employment, women can retire. About 180,000 of my women have taken advantage of it. [[Adam Mirkóczki: 70,000 could not.]] Today, after 40 years of employment, women can retire. Even then, you have deceived your constituents, and since then, you have been constantly deceiving your constituents. Why would you be serious about today's intentions? Thank you for the floor, Mr President, thank you for your kind attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-11-29-206	Thank you very much. Good evening, everyone. Let's see. Please, the government is coming, on behalf of the government, Secretary of State Rétvári. As soon as I arrive, I'll be able to give you the floor. Here you go.
u2016-11-29-207	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. I, too, wish you and all my fellow Members a good evening. Congressman Teleki was just here, and he mentioned that there are many elderly people who can't afford to go to the spa, can't afford to go to the sauna. Indeed, we also thought that they should be given the opportunity, as many as possible, to experience it. Especially if they worked for decades in employment or raised children. That is why we have decided to launch a program for them, in which those who do not have the financial opportunity to go to such places will still get there. In the Erzsébet program we also found a cover for this, with which we did not draw any other source, but merely the profit that was exported from the country, we kept it at home and did not serve the extra profits of multinational companies, but served the bathing, relaxation and wellness of Hungarian retired people. 170,000 pensioners had the opportunity to do so, in 2012, 28 thousand in 2013, 34 thousand in 2014, 58 thousand in 2015 and 35 thousand pensioners in 2016. This included the distribution result that we could achieve from the Elizabeth vouchers, and the budget's support was worth billions of forints in recent years. Under the Erzsébet programme, you could apply for them, for a holiday application, for discounted bath passes for pensioners. The range of beneficiaries is over 60 years old, who are entitled to an old-age pension and are apparently resident and the total monthly benefits for 2016 do not exceed HUF 147 thousand and do not have any additional taxable income. This was, therefore, the circle who, indeed, would not have made it from their own sources either as pensioners or before, but they could have done so. Here, relatively small amounts had to be paid, as in the case of a grant, 2500 forints had to be paid. There were several possibilities here, 3 and 4 star hotels with thermal and thermal water could spend 4 or 3 nights in the country's most popular spa towns, obviously mainly in the pre- and after season, which was both good for the home restaurants, since the season was extended for them, it was good for the pensioners, as they reached these places. And it was good for the whole country, because their well-being, their health, has improved. I feel that everyone felt this decision was fair. And we made the right decision when we didn't let these money out, primarily towards France, but said that pensioners would get this opportunity. As many others received it, hundreds of thousands of people, mainly students for camping, but, of course, pensioners also got a holiday, spa and spa. With such and similar proposals, we have tried to increase safety for pensioners, and we have done the same with pension increases. If we had used previous calculations, we would have had at least 4.1 percent less to raise their pension. And we've done this for pensioners, whether by reducing their overhead or reducing their drug prices, or by other measures. However, we have been arguing here for quite a long time, but we have not heard from any opposition representatives that support today's proposal that would allow pensions to grow to a greater extent. Time has come for a lot of things, for many government representatives to mock and try to disprove, but in order to support a higher rate of pension growth, for pensioners to receive a higher pension rate next year, there has been no mention of opposition factions. In the same way, they did not mention whether they supported the proposal made by the Elderly Council, which the government will discuss tomorrow, so that pensioners would receive a one-time allowance of HUF 10 000 in the aforementioned Elizabeth vouchers. They didn't say anything about it, nothing about it. This also shows that this is not a real debate, because none of the opposition parties have given their true ideas about the pension system, the idea of pensions. On the part of Fidesz-KDNP, we have approached several times, from several perspectives, how we could maintain the stability of the pension fund after 2010, so that there would be a sure opportunity to pay pensions every month. This is why it was possible to increase the amount of monthly pensions to a level that already represents an overall monthly pension surplus on an annual basis. The opposition parties have not expressed their views either on the revenue side, on the expenditure side, on the stability of the pension system or on anything else, which means that they also consider the best, but they do not dare to say what the Fidesz-KDNP has done in recent years. And that's the best they've got. And it turned out that the main topic of today's debate could not be supported by any substantive proposal or background, but simply and exclusively, as our fellow Member Csizi drew attention to it, and an attempt by other fellow Members, an opposition party in a dive flight, to open the parachute and reduce its popularity. I think that voters should not be so disdained, that it is not possible to suddenly turn themselves into a retirement party, when for six years they have not supported all the measures that served the interests of pensioners. There were things that he initially supported, but then a few years later he was opposed to the three-pillar-to-two-pillar pension system. So we can see it's nothing but a sudden idea, a sudden yanked-up proposal to try and stop their falling popularity. Don't look down on voters, don't look down on pensioners. Pensioners also recall who maintained the purchasing value of pensions, who respected their word, who protected the jobs of people over 55 years of age, to receive a higher-value pension, and who were able to maintain the purchasing value of pensions. In fact, they were able to increase it, and this increase will continue in December this year with a one-off allowance and a further increase in the rate of increase next year, which, apparently, the opposition could not support here in Parliament today. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]] [[20.10]]
u2016-11-29-208	Mr Dániel Z. Kárpát, representative of Jobbik, is coming as a spokesperson.
u2016-11-29-209	Mr President, Dear House, Welcome to the party-state meeting; what Mr. Secretary of State said was a good communist speech. Congratulations, Mr. Secretary. You've fulfilled your duties as an employer. The only problem is, he's a fluent liar. Tamás Sneider talked about the concept and the package of proposals that Jobbik placed on the table in addition to three letters read. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: What are the measures? Give me five measures.]] You weren't supposed to be the one to make an opinion here, you were supposed to take a professional response on behalf of the voters behind them. You couldn't do that, but let's take it one by one. His congresswoman lied to him before. As he spoke, he could see and know that he was lying, but he continued, claiming that after 40 years of employment, women were promised to retire. That's a net lie. It can be read anywhere that it was 40 years of service. Service relations include a number of other factors that cannot be regarded as employment since school practice. [[Turning to Dr. Miklós Soltesz:]] No matter how he shakes his head, there he is, it's traceable. Don't lie to Parliament. What you're doing is a disgrace. [[Intercoms from KDNP benches.]] And we're being accused of not supporting 40 years in the case of ladies, whether it's a job or a service relationship, and I support the possibility of retiring myself after a service relationship. This can be found in Jobbik's program, while your program was to continue. One single, cursed word that you will continue. In our program this can be found, accountable; that is why political forces write programmes, so that they can be accountable, and we take this call. And obviously, I have to say again, your salad could not be voted for because 70,000 Hungarians were severely discriminated against by it, which is simply untenable and could not be given its name by a responsible national force. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: I would like to request five pension measures.]] Nevertheless, we have before us the proposal against which you have no sense, no reason, and it seems that you cannot now. When my Fidesz fellow Member comes up with the number of Vácó Sebestyén in his constituency, he goes down to the dog. It's just pathetic. It is unworthy of Parliament if, instead of considering professional arguments, it examines the place in which a Member graduated in the elections. What's that got to do with the quality of the professional stuff? What's it to you? Pull yourself together, Congressman. [[Péter Csizi: You weren't even here at my proper speech!]] Don't yell, push the button and take a sedative. In the meantime, the Fundamental Law... [[Noise.]]
u2016-11-29-210	Easy, easy. I am in charge of the meeting, and now Mr Dániel Z. Carpathian is speaking, and the others are listening to them with awe, and then they will hear them. [[Péter Csizi and Dr. Bence Rétvári intervene.]] I understand, Congressman. All right, listen. Congressman, continue.
u2016-11-29-211	Thank you very much for the floor. [[Péter Csizi: He couldn't even tie a tie!]]
u2016-11-29-212	Please, Congressman. [[Noise.]] Congressman Chizi, over here, on me! Eye contact. [[Péter Csizi: Z. Carpath was not here at my speech.]] It's okay. [[Defiance.]] We'll fill you in on the details. Now, if you'll excuse yourself. Let him finish, and then he'll have a lot to worry about again. In the meantime, collect your energy. And you carry on. Here you go.
u2016-11-29-213	Thank you very much for the repeated word and the opportunity to recreate the government's lies about the fundamental law amendment. I mean, here you've been told that Jobbik didn't support a fundamental law amendment. You said the fundamental law amendment. There were quite a few of them. Jobbik has submitted, quite precisely, three, which is about excluding migration on all grounds and excluding conscious resettlement. You, yes, have voted all three of them down. All three better proposals have been voted off. After that, one was submitted, which was maimed enough to leave your residency bond business, because for you, getting dirty money is more important than Hungary's security. Read today's announcement on the Alpha News, which is also from the Immigration and Nationality Office data series. This clearly shows that you have given so-called investors the right of establishment through your bond business to 2876 so-called investors, thus giving so many aliens, to which family members have joined through family reunification. Thus, the current total amount is 7965; you have installed so many aliens in Hungary. We're talking about data from the Immigration and Nationality Office. And on the other hand, a campaign of more than 9 months on the mandatory resettlement quota in Brussels was launched, which we didn't support, let alone support, but when we broadcast the distress signals, you said for years that this was a non-existent problem. Secretary of State Kontra has risen and told us how many police officers have been initiated in the Heroes' field, and this is a non-existent problem. The thing is, you're installing the aliens, and you're teaching the opposition with a huge breast, with a big mouth, and there's nothing to talk about. And to talk about what you can do? For example, you could share with us a detailed concept of, say, a significant number of members of the Ratkó age class, who retired as self-employed entrepreneurs or special forms of work, and, where appropriate, will not reach the sum of EUR 100 for their retirement, what kind of vision they are looking for. So how do you intend to ensure their safety in old age? As we can see, we have 800,000 of our countrymen in Hungary - and this is a very serious issue, and we should find an answer to that - who, according to the current rules, will not obtain or obtain any pension rights, i.e. they will be dependent on state aid and state dots all the time in their old age. In terms of elderly benefits, perhaps we should not call it a vision that 800,000 people will live and thrive on elderly people's benefits in Hungary. It is quite certain that these people should have some kind of vision, and we would have a shared responsibility to work on it anyway. This is why it is painful that we have not heard a reasonable argument from the government about the, about men 40, one or two words, yes, in terms of budgetary burdens. But here again I have to refer back to Tamás Sneider's speech, the four-year schedule that he outlined in relation to spending can be kept absolutely stable, it fits into the budgetary framework, and some of the money is also clearly used in the Hungarian market. Typically, it will not become a luxury yacht or a government bond, but will be spent on the market and essential consumer goods. The other main problem that we should and should be talking about is the untenableness of the pay-as-you-go system, as the most optimistic predictions make this non-overcast, or at least shaky, by 2040 at the latest, but these models do not count on such an amazing rise in the emigration spiral as we are experiencing today. That is why we can say that only a very small proportion of Hungarian people of active age already pay taxes and contributions on income higher than the minimum wage. So the tax and contribution paid that is available will certainly not be enough to maintain the system for decades. As regards Hungarians working abroad, we cannot talk about any contribution. Thus, from abroad only the transfer of around HUF 930 billion from abroad comes back, which does not mean long-term contributions and tax revenues, but its one-off spending can actually change the Hungarian GDP, but it is an external injection and cannot be considered one of the Hungarian economy's own feet. We can also see that the government is moving towards some kind of concept, as it often says that it is increasing consumption-type taxes. And obviously, if, in the long term, you will not be able to provide for your needs from different tax and contribution revenues alone, you will try to fill the holes in these systems by raising consumption taxes to the heavens, and you will not find sufficient resources to support the pension system by approaching the incomes of labour and capital. In the future, therefore, consumption taxes will be further increased at a brutal level; this has been started. By the way, 27 percent VAT is a glowing torch not only for tax frauds in the whole region, but also shows the government's attitude. On the one hand, the incomes are, in the right way, a little less charged, but on the other hand, they are taxed with consumption-type taxes. Secretary of State of Rétvár quoted OECD data, so let me bring you two. For a family model with two children, two workers, unfortunately no longer average, but close to the desired one, the fourth largest tax burden can be shown in Hungary for the OECD countries under consideration. In the case of a childless single, the highest tax burden for certain occupations and circles can be found in Hungary. You can see that we can pull one out of this organization's statistics. Obviously, this could be a long professional debate if that were your objective. What we can offer you is the immediate reduction of the 27 percent VAT level. It has been mentioned here that some reductions have been made in respect of basic foods. I support that. My problem is that 6-7 percent of the average consumer basket of a Hungarian family was affected by this reduction, it was cosmetic in nature, while the fiscal margin would have allowed for a much braver reduction, and it would also be expected in terms of child-rearing articles, since what is expected is a population turnaround if the child-rearing articles are taxed here from the point of view of VAT in the most brutal parts of Europe. I could go to individual pension accounts, etc., the point is that the size of the Hungarian national economy's cake should be increased, so that more access to social care systems can be made. At the same time, this does not go with the failed economic policy of the government, the achievement of a dried-up economy, and with exotic and other types of taxes in Hungary, both the population and entrepreneurs, so it would take a turn in economic policy to be able to base the demographic shift later on. Thank you for the opportunity. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]] [[20.20]]
u2016-11-29-214	Thank you very much. On behalf of the government, Mr Retvári State Secretary. Here.
u2016-11-29-215	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, You know, honourable Member, the Hungarian economy has been so dried up that in the last six months only three ratings have qualified the Hungarian economy. Please explain to me that you said that in certain occupations the maximum tax is in Hungary. [[Z. Carpathian Daniel: That's not what I said!]] Explain it, because we didn't understand it, we looked at each other, we thought it was the same for every occupation. He said that there is already a maximum tax on certain types of employment in Hungary, and we cannot really interpret it here on this side of the horseshoe. Please explain this in a two-minute or something. That speech was extremely embarrassing. All I asked you to do was give me five pension measures on Jobbik's side, and we got zero. After you told me that Jobbik had a coherent pension picture, I told you that you didn't need everything, just list five. [[Dániel Z. Carpathian intervenes.]] It has not been possible to list one, in Hungarian, Jobbik has no coherent image of pensioners, it cannot guarantee the stability of pensions, it would improvise decisions, it would suddenly, rush and irresponsiblely make decisions if it were in such a situation. We hope that you will never find yourself in such a situation, and at present this danger is not even a threat to Jobbik. It was extremely embarrassing that during the whole speech there was also VAT, all other taxes, sometimes overtaxed Hungary, sometimes tax havens, so there were some inexplicable contradictions to this, but it was able to provide zero tax-related measures. He's corrupted Fidesz because he doesn't have a coherent pension policy. All we are talking about is what we have been doing for six years, and you have not been able to say a single measure on Jobbik's part, in Hungarian, and you do not have any thoughtful plans on this. They'd improvise, they'd debatt, just like they're doing on the opposition side of the political horseshoe. There is less danger here, but, as my fellow Member has already pointed out, you have already managed to break your own electoral promises in opposition. Nevertheless, we would like to pursue our own pension policy, which has brought stability and growth to pensioners so far. We see that Jobbik, on the other hand, has nothing. At the same time, Jobbik started a different kind of competition, an explanation contest: it is even more embarrassing when they say that the reason why 181 thousand elderly women are not eligible for 40, is because it could be 70 thousand more. It's an extremely embarrassing explanation that they won't vote for 180,000 because you think there could be more. Why didn't you vote for 180,000 and then submit a proposal for the rest? But that is no reason, honourable Member, for the 180,000 to be rejected. [[Ádám Mirkóczki: It has been submitted and voted down!]] It just means that you have no long-term, pension or other ideas, suddenly voting on the basis of quick decision-making, completely confused, conflicting ways [[Adam Mirkóczki: The only good thing is that you don't!]] they have no long-term vision. It's extremely risky in retirement. [[Adam Mirkóczki: You do not steal or lie!]] It was just as embarrassing to explain at the Fundamental Law. When hundreds of thousands or millions of people arrive at the border of the European Union in some years and seem to want to promote this in Brussels [[Ádám Mirkóczki: Viktor Orbán signed it!]] artificially helping the masses and millions of people to settle in Europe, they would install them themselves, they wanted to promote this [[Ádám Mirkóczki: There was something that Viktor Orbán signed, and you lied!]] and to do so, we want to give Hungary fundamental protection, then you say that the protection against the millions expected, who will arrive at the European Union's border on an annual basis, will not be voted on, because there are a few thousand people elsewhere you think there are, by the way, disagreements with. [[Adam Mirkóczki: This should please you if this were so!]] This is an extremely embarrassing explanation, my fellow Members, from you. When all their arguments run out in the pension debate and any other debate, they say that Habony and Ripper and Andy Vajna. That's it, that's your pension policy, Habony, Butcher, Andy Vajna. [[Adam Mirkóczki: Steal, steal, steal!]] For this, pensioners, I do not think they can base peaceful retirement decades. [[Z. Carpathian Daniel: At least we don't steal! That's the difference, isn't it?]] So I see that Jobbik has still failed to make progress in this area. Fidesz-KDNP has made the right decision over the last six years to make those laws and lay the pension system on such a stable basis as to ensure an increase in the value of pensions, but it has not slipped out to you to support the increase in pensions next year, nor has it slipped out to you to support the provision of ten thousand forints to pensioners. Looks like you guys really don't approve of that. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-11-29-216	We now have a two-minute turn; the representative of KDNP, Mr Miklós Soltész, will be the first.
u2016-11-29-217	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I thank Mr László Teleki for his contribution. I just want to say that there was a lot of truth to what you said, but that's the problem, and I'm telling you honestly that the first problem in the life of gypsy people hasn't been the payment of pension contributions for decades, which is why even though they're 55-60-65 years old, they still haven't got a pension. So this is the social philosophy that had to be changed, so that it would not be a benefit, not a disability pension, but, if possible, an opportunity to work and then pay social contributions and pay medical contributions. I think this is a very important thing that you have raised, and we just need to start this, and we need to strengthen it together, because it is a huge problem that you have raised. However, let me add that in addition to Tamás Sneider, I see that Daniel Z. Carpathian's speech has completely confused Jobbik's lines. One minute, you said, "I'm sorry, Congressman, there's plenty of money, and Tamás Sneider proved that, I don't know exactly where you got the numbers, there's plenty, because according to these calculations, it's possible, and then two minutes later, three minutes later, he said in his comment that there wasn't enough contributions, taxes, and I don't know what kind of revenue. Make up your mind, right-wing Members, whether you want to be connected to the economic and social policy that was before 2010 or if you want to start a rational thinking. If so, if you want to be sober, not this what you're doing now, not this completely uncredited and memorable policy you're doing, then think about whether you're joining the pension policy that you had before 2010 and what you're protecting right now is coming out of your speeches more and more, or what saved the country's pension system. [[The President shall ring a bell to indicate the expiry of the time limit.]] As a result, I would like to emphasise once again that in six years, the real value of pensions has increased 10 percent. [[The president's ringing again.]] Which you have never joined. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-11-29-218	Congressman Lajos Korózs, MSZP, in two minutes.
u2016-11-29-219	I'm running out of time. Dear fellow Members, This debate isn't... [[On Dr. Bence Rétvári's mark:]] It's not my time, Bence. I'm gonna be sitting here in Parliament for decades. There are union leaders sitting up in the gallery, and, yes, I must say, we should almost be ashamed of ourselves. It's not about the CSOK, it's not about the fundamental amendment of the law, it's not about immigration, it's about the workers, it's not about the pension system, it's not even about the Elisabeth voucher. There is a motion before us, which is about explaining why the problem has arisen, why this whole thing has come here: in a rapid way, without any transition, they have abolished the early retirement pension, including the early allowance, the early retirement allowance, the reduced amount of early retirement and the rest. That's what the motion is about, not other matters. I saw that there was a union leader who got caught in the chair, and of course, maybe he just dropped his pen, but still. It was all about today's debate, and I can see that some people work out just to pass the time. Dear fellow Members, What we're talking about here is that in the changed system, you can brag about the fact that there's nothing left in the pension register, or there might be an extra one. Besides, I'm just saying to you that there is no pension register in Hungary today, there is no pension register in Hungary, there is a budget, and in the budget the extras were collected from the social contribution tax, hundreds of billions of forints plus the employees, and now they regret giving a few ten billion forints on a motion or an initiative that we hope could turn this into a law; that is what this is all about. My fellow Members, you have pulled billions from the pension system over the last six years, and I would just like to get a fraction of that back from the people who have earned it. Thank you very much.
u2016-11-29-220	Congressman Tamás Sneider, Jobbik.
u2016-11-29-221	Thank you, Mr. President. I would like to comment on this shameful debate. Please, I'm telling you specifically that Mr. Navracsich said that duty hours count. Then let's look at the rules. Other periods of service, such as study periods, duration of unemployment, job-seeking or rehabilitation care, the duration of payment of a care allowance due to the care of a patient over 18 years of age, or periods of pension contributions paid under the agreement, which otherwise qualify as periods of service under the general rules, are not taken into account in terms of entitlement to the benefit. [[20.30]] But it takes nothing more into account: the years spent in higher education, recognised as periods of service, cannot be taken into account... Let me not list what the 70,000 women are currently condemning, because you spread such a lie in the election campaign, and you did not comply with it a few months later. And the fact that we don't have a program? That's the most ridiculous thing. If someone does not have a programme in Hungary today on the pension system, it is Fidesz, I am 100% convinced of that. Obviously, I can't tell you what we want to do in 40 seconds, but one thing is for sure, the social contribution tax that you can steal at any time because you have the authority to do so, because it couldn't be done so far, because it was a pension contribution, it would be a pension contribution again if Jobbik came to government and the pensioners' money wasn't stolen! What is a pension contribution will be paid for in Hungary! And we still have a lot of these programs, believe me. Thank you very much. [[Intercoms from Jobbik: That's right! A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2016-11-29-222	We will now return to the pre-notification speeches. The first among these is Congressman Sándor Kovács, Fidesz. Here you go.
u2016-11-29-223	Thank you very much. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, On a political debate day, I think that debate or its heat is natural by nature. How many habitus, how much attitude you have, that's one thing. I think that if the debate is based on a number of recurring ideas, the restructuring of the pension fund and the restructuring of the pension system, then there is a layer of medically impaired, which receives a complex review on the basis of an application, where they examine not only its health status, but also its social background, the employment potential, and are grouped into four types, categories A, B, C, D, and this is also shared, A1, B1, and the rest, let me not elaborate. So it is not true that, on the basis of a completely lawnmower principle, all benefits that may refer back to human health damage have disappeared. The indeed called pension clean-up process: the pension contribution actually collected as a tax, and the pension fund as a separate chapter of the budget, can indeed be monitored. This is why the social security pension fund can be maintained in balance. I think that the revenue and expenditure side, as the Members who spoke before me rightly stated, is in balance. And this balance would be very quickly overturned, with the utmost respect for your arguments that, given the state of health of people aged 65 years... - we do not argue that the health condition is being damaged, but that this balance, which examines its total social complexity, I think that the release of about 200,000 people, 200 thousand pensioners, due to the logic of the Ratko era, poses a very great risk, my fellow Members. For if, as a pensioner, these 200,000 people are to be released into the social care system - I am sorry to say so - or let them do so - and we do not maintain that kind of balance either by gradually completing the retirement age or by the active way of employment, as my fellow Member Csizi said in his speech to the European Union, referring to the MSZP speech; I think that it is responsible for talking about older employment and people's relation to it. But in order to return to the amendment concerning people who have actually worked and may be injured by health: in the armed forces, I report it with respect, it is introduced, the type of insurance where the insurance company enters, and if the health damage can be traced back to its working conditions, the insurance company will take over the loss of income from which the worker may have to carry out a transfer in another job. I think that these processes, with the introduction of a career model, have started in the same direction as the government's intention, moving towards a goal, a goal that the government has set its goal, a medium- and long-term goal, to look after the elderly. He also made it legal: Under the Hungarian Fundamental Law, the Hungarian State provides special protection for the elderly. The national strategy for ageing is a document of domestic ageing policy: 81/2009. by a parliamentary decision, it guarantees that the first Elderly Council shall draw up an action plan, which shall be drawn up in accordance with Article 1087/2010. it has confirmed in the form of a government decision that it follows the active principles of the elderly. You're creating an academy for the elderly, please. The following shall be added to the list in Annex III to Regulation (EU) No 182/2011: As regards social services, from the Fundamental Law to specialized care, the law lists the opportunities that this 200,000-year-old or elderly people can use as a service from the paid taxes of Hungarian society, the Hungarian community. I think it should be examined in a complex way. But to step back, the complex review of people with health problems. Invalidity benefits provide an opportunity not to be reviewed or to establish the benefit. If you reach the rules on your retirement age, you can apply the more favourable condition for you: you can either continue with your disability benefit or you can continue with your pension. However, we could also talk about the rehabilitation allowance, which is a review, but in December 2015 the government decided that the disability pensioner, who is close to his retirement age by five years, does not have to go to any more review, is going to basically a disability pension. So it is not true that there is a rumor that the government is not concerned and has not provided for the employment and post-employment healthcare benefits of those people who have actually spent a long time in employment. My colleague Czunyiné mentioned the Chilean example. Yes, it has been proven that after 35 years, 38 percent of men will be returned after their paid-up pension contributions, 35 percent of women, with respect. So don't refer to the fact that we've stolen the mandatory pension funds. 35 years ago, it was introduced in the Pinochet system in 1981, but it may also be possible to trace the fibres that discover American contexts and IMF relationships, and the same banks tried to steal the pension funds themselves. So I think, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, that the government does have a long-term strategy, that it has a purpose for the elderly, whether in active employment or in health damage or as a normal worker. The fact that in a political debate, in accordance with his habitus, I once again say that he will agree to some of the things that he might not have to go into, but that is intolerable, and let me ask on behalf of my fellow Members that when my fellow Member, Dr. József Kovács, talks about health care, everyone smiles at what has to do with retirement. Yes, health care is also part of the complex care, and older people take the most of their illness or perhaps their dementia, if we are talking about a disease, if we are talking about it. Let's not laugh at each other, gentlemen. We have tried to get into a debate, if we have looked out for a party political goal or two, I think that we are in Parliament, and political parties are sitting in Parliament and confronting their views on what might be trying to solve the problem of a social group or a complex society. Thank you so much for the opportunity. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2016-11-29-224	Thank you very much. Congressman Ander Balázs, Jobbik. Here.
u2016-11-29-225	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, First of all, I would like to thank Sándor Kovács for his contribution on behalf of the Group of Jobbik. He outlined his ideas very firmly, but in a constructive way. In this way, it has been left out of the Fidesz-KDNP group. Here today, on another debate, we have already received from Congressman Kucsák that the opposition is using these debates on a sort of political hack, and now the constantly naughty-smile Secretary of State of Rétvár has accused us of having remorse. I think that, by the way, Mr. Secretary of State has a cognitive dissonance, which has been created in you because of the difficulty in aligning the fine principles with the actions that your government is doing. Now, let us look at what is happening here in Hungary with the new feudal, oligarchal domination of the situation of the workers, the situation of the workers that you employ, and we can say quite seriously that they are able to reject even Taigetos because they have taken away from them the benefits that they would have had in these man-slaughter jobs. Some figures or some cases should be added here. For example, there is the situation of existential threat, anyone could be in an existential slaughterhouse at any time. Consider, for example, the case of the victims of the Palócker. We're talking about almost a thousand people here. What if, after the age of 60, such a life crisis occurs, say, a man? What can he do with you? Nothing, by the way, because there are circumstances, there are laws, because they haven't changed it, that it's simply impossible to get out of a crisis like this. [[20.40]] But then we can also look at the number of accidents at work, how it has developed here in Hungary for a few years, and then we should not look back for the last eight years. Let's see, let's say that in the first half of 2012, 7500 workplace accidents occurred in Hungary, which climbed over 10 thousand in the first half of 2016. What could be the reason for this? Maybe it's not just a factor behind it that you keep the job disabled, tired, old workers on the labour market, you don't let them enjoy the rest of the pension they deserve anyway. But we can also say that we should compare the 2015 OECD data, which say that in Hungary, an average employee works 1900 hours a year, on the other hand, let's say that this figure is only 1400 hours in Germany. What if, let's say, an oligarch of your benefit, I do that, by chance, a Butcher doesn't seem to think that his $3.5 billion dividend is being compromised at work, and now he's not so productive and he's going to fire him? What about these people? You may think you are Ferenc Jóska here, and you think that everything is very beautiful, everything is very good, and you are satisfied with everything, but believe me, these Hungarian people, quoted by Congressman Tamás Sneider, do not feel this happiness at all. But to support with some more data here how well Hungarian men deserve not to be discriminated against, but to enjoy this pension after 40 years of work, some health data. Everyone is aware that the nation has an infinitely wasted health asset, and if we compare the extremely high rate of early health degradation that is observed in Hungary, let us say, not with Austrian or German data, but only with neighbouring Slovak or even not too distant Polish data, then we must say that we are in a very bad situation here too, and rather we are moving towards Russian or Ukrainian data, and men are much more vulnerable in this respect. The Hungarian working men are now under triple pressure, and on the one hand, there are expectations in the family, and on the other hand, there is the new idea, the obligation of parenting. This will be largely on the shoulders of men, and if you have read, say, Mary Kopp or have read, say, János Selye, then you know precisely that this kind of stress factor, the feeling of uncertainty, the fear of losing status, the Hungarian workers fear that they will be unemployed, actually make themselves sick. You have to look at the death structures, the statistics that all show how sick Hungarians can get with this kind of stress at work. How many times, let's say, among men, among middle-aged Hungarian men, the rate of cancer, the rate of cardiovascular disease, the rate of heart attack, compared to, say, an Austrian level? We can see terrible data, and we have to say it again: you do not allow these Hungarian workers to enjoy the life they deserve after 40 years of robotism. The idea of increasing social and economic security at the top of the Swedish public health programme, or of removing the stress at work, was not by accident. Where are we compared to this in Hungary? Where is the increase in social cohesion? Here in Hungary we are witnessing a state of social anomaly. What is very useful for you, honourable governing parties, is that a Hungarian society thrown into an anomaly, thrown into a hopeless state, can be controlled as Árpád Habony imagines. 'Cause these poor people are gonna need some kind of grip on their lives. But to list some more statistics here: we see that at some point in the '60s there was an incredible population crisis in Hungary, which reached an incredible high level of mortality in the mid-1990s or '93s, when more than 20 thousand male men aged between 40 and 59 died in one year. This was twice the death rate for women of the same age group. Although these public health indicators have improved since 93 but these rates, this terrible ratio shift to the detriment of men, continues to exist to this day. And you don't want to do anything about it, or you can't do anything about it. When we say that a Hungarian male man, say a 40-year-old man, can expect 33 years of life, has such a life perspective, it is worth comparing it to, say, Austrian data or the data of the women here. And if we think about what my fellow Member Egyed here has said, that we are seeing even worse indicators for men with lower educational qualifications, and that the picture is even more horrifying, because there is a 30-year-old male with 60-some percent certainty that he will not live to be 65. You don't want anything to do with this situation, you can't do anything about it, and you can't do anything about it, either, that if these people are excluded from the labour market, they can't take part in rehabilitation, or they're out of disability, they're wandering around nobody's land. What is your message to these people, fellow Members? Nothing. It should also be said that if these men reach retirement by the way, 6 to 7 percent can expect additional years of good health. That is what we should be talking about, and not so cynically laughing at it, fellow Members of the Fidesz-KDNP. That's what we were gonna talk about, and that's what we're gonna talk about. Thank you for your attention. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2016-11-29-226	There are two-minute speeches coming up. First, Congressman Lajos Korózs, MSZP!
u2016-11-29-227	Thank you very much. Dear House, Dear fellow Members, I went over my stats here quickly, since everyone's doing statistics. My fellow Members know that I am a very thorough man, and I always look into everything. Please, by changing the system compared to 2010, the disabled system took out HUF 345 billion, and the underage care - hold on! - 365 billion forints, one billion forints for every day, and 159 billion forints for health-damaged people. I don't care anymore, summa summarum. In six years, HUF 869 billion has been withdrawn from the pension system - one. Secondly, I would like to remind my fellow Members that, before the 2010 elections, when Mr Mihály Varga said at an unguarded moment just before Christmas that if they were to be put on the government, they would most likely switch to the introduction of the so-called Swedish model for the pension system, it appeared that there was a terrible outrage, first of all, on the part of retired civil society organisations, and the Prime Minister-designed Viktor Orbán tried to reassure the society of the elderly and gave a very long interview. I couldn't figure out why the Wall Street Journal did, but it did give a long interview, and in it Prime Minister Viktor Orbán said literally that he thanked the Bajnai government because he left behind a functioning pension system that doesn't need to be touched for 30 years. [[20.50]] This was from the mouth of Viktor Orbán. Compared to this, they created the situation on 1 January 2012 which is why we now have to negotiate with each other at night. Thank you very much, Mr President, for your patience.
u2016-11-29-228	Thank you very much. Congresswoman Gabriella Selmeczi, Fidesz, please.
u2016-11-29-229	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Allow me, ladies and gentlemen, to make a stylish comment first. I know it's hard, but I need everyone to refrain from insults. Getting angry during a speech and yelling from the opposition benches is still bearable, but we hear increasingly harsh ratings. We are not enemies, we are political opponents, and it is not worthy of this House, either party or any of my fellow Members, the style that many people allow themselves and constantly throw rude expressions and words at each other's heads. I think we should draw a line here and try to make sense of each other. The second part of my comment concerns the fact that it should also be decided, in one part of their comments, why we pro-government representatives are talking about pension systems, why we are talking about family support, and then they are talking about it in the other half of the sentence. I think we have to, because our understanding is that older people are not only subject to pensions, but older people also live in families and older people are equally affected by those measures. [[Tamás Sneider: This is not the retirement debate!]] , which are the other Hungarian citizens. So you're not thinking about an allowance, you're thinking about a system. This is what I cannot do many times, but I would ask my fellow Members, with all due respect, to try to think about it. As a woman, let me say that there are incomes in a household, and when it comes to spending, I look at housing costs, schooling costs, and I look at how food costs and so on go. So we need to think in a system because we can help society, help families and put them in a better position by various means. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2016-11-29-230	Thank you. We will now return to the Members who have spoken. Congressman Tamás Pintér, Jobbik!
u2016-11-29-231	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Forgive me, I'm the newest congressman now, and for that reason, it's quite shocking to me what's going on here. By the way, in Dunaújváros, where I come from, as a municipal representative, I have had quite a lot of misconceptions on the part of my fellow Members with Fidesz, and there was also a kind of standard. You've heard about the Fidesz killer, you've heard about the public lighting scandal, you've heard about several scandals in Dunaújváros that you don't want to hear again, I think. But the gibberish I have heard from you, my honourable fellow Members, has been quite simply shocked. I thought that we would be able to argue constructively on professional grounds, but that seems to be completely out of the question for you. I thought by the time it came to speaking, we would be able to talk about the institution of early retirement. If you'll excuse me, I'll get to it. I think it was a very big mistake to abolish it, because it has caused problems for many people in the professions that are physically and mentally particularly burdensome. In the process of abolishing this institutional system, you have also ignored the positions of the trade unions, as trade unions have proposed a number of initiatives for the conversion of early retirement, which have included a new system for risk assessment and review. One of your arguments, which has not yet been mentioned, has been read in this regard that this early retirement is no longer justified by working conditions. I'm from Dunaújváros, as I said, and the workers in Dunaferr could be asked about this after a month in a coke shop and shift. Or you could work a month, my fellow Members, and I would like to ask you if you think that after this one month of working hours we need early retirement. But while we are at the example, there are also institutional firefighters at Dunaferr, who face brutal physical stress at the facility fire department, and also encounter chemicals in their work that are very heavy on their bodies. These people are likely to have an old-age pension because some of them become disabled. In this way, because of their real health damage, they will in some way need public help later. Otherwise, we believe that early retirement should be considered in particular for workers working several shifts, since health, sociology and occupational protection research suggests that such work can be done for up to 15 years without harm to health. Finally, I really see no point in making serious professional arguments. You can see that all my fellow Members are hiding their phones. I would like to say that you should be reasonable and give these people the opportunity of a decent retreat. Thank you very much for the floor. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2016-11-29-232	Thank you. Mr Sándor Kovács applied for a two-minute speech. Here you go.
u2016-11-29-233	Thank you very much. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Tom. We have a difference of age. I'm from the village, and believe me, I've cleaned a relay, I've installed a locomotive, and I've also washed the certain contents of the diaper when I have to. I know what physical work means, and I also know that in four years' time, according to your logic, I, who feel that I am well maintained, should retire, or give me the opportunity to do so. But I want to work. [[Intercoms from Jobbik's benches: Possibly!]] Don't push those people away. [[Ádám Mirkóczki: Not required!]] They don't want to force him on those people. [[Adam Mirkóczi: Nobody wants it!]] 'Cause it's a whole different setup. [[Adam Mirkóczki: Why do you have to lie now?]] between men who worked 40 years and women who worked 40 years. [[Ádám Mirkóczki: Listen to your partymate!]] Think about the kind of opportunity due to health damage. A decent retreat is possible due to health damage. [[Adam Mirkóczki: That's what I'm talking about! Possibilities, not mandatory.]] Don't force society to do what you imagine. Thank you so much for the opportunity. [[Adam Mirkóczki: Why do you lie? A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2016-11-29-234	Thank you very much. We will return to the Members who have spoken in advance. Congressman Lajos Rig, Jobbik, here you go.
u2016-11-29-235	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, First, allow me to respond to the words of my fellow Member, József Kovács. I respect and respect him for his work, for he has achieved something in life as a medical director - unfortunately he is not in the room, so he cannot hear my words - as hospital director. He put something on the desk of the profession as an internal physician and gastroenterologist. But today we're in the 40-plus debate, and we're not talking about hospital closures or nurse discharges. Maybe he's got another piece of paper in his hand. He should have talked about how many colleagues he had who couldn't have reached retirement age. If you come up with statistical numbers, I'll give you a few. For men, the average age is 72.3 years. This only makes Bulgaria, Romania, Lithuania and Latvia worse. If men are able to retire after 40 years of employment, then it will also be possible to move to Iceland later, because there is an average age of 81,3 years. If I said I wanted to hear names, I'd say a few from my constituency and the area that spent thirty, almost forty years in the field of health care and didn't reach the pension. Unfortunately, their death is exemplary, because today is a day of debate so that they do not do so at work. So here's the list: Dr. Ferenc Ézsely, Dr. Béla Egyed, József Dosztál, Lajos Németh, Imre Dark. They were staff at Tapolca Hospital as chief of medicine and as surgical assistants. They worked 35 and 40 years, but they didn't reach a happy retirement age. I'd like to give you names from the paramedics. Unfortunately, they didn't even reach 35 years of employment: Zsolt Ágh, László Berta, László Tóth and Sándor Gyarmati, who had a heart attack while performing his duties. Their work was respectable, and we are really here to prevent the future generation or our generation from experiencing the opportunity to raise grandchildren after 40 years of employment, to help our children, and that is what this is about, the possibility, is not mandatory. You don't have to retire, but if you want to be a granddaughter and not say political horse-zung in Parliament, you have to make sure that you're in the world of work. [[21.00]] In the field of health, there are risk factors that put this sector at risk, especially health, in which both physical and mental stress is increased. What other exposures are there that are possible? For example, exposure to dangerous substances such as blood, body fluids, secretions, exposure to ethylene oxide gas, X-ray radiation, exposure to sleeping gas, and I could go further on to reduce the possibility of reaching 40 years of employment. The names I've listed here have all died as a result of this harm. In Tamás Sneider's speech and exposé, it was said that there are paramedics - and many paramedics - who bring down 120 kilos of patients from the fourth floor. I wonder how many of these men would do that in the benches. I think very few. If a paramedic gets away with not having a heart attack, not having a stroke, he's lucky enough to get a spinal hernia in the flow of the above-mentioned example, and at best, he'll get a Mydeton or, say, a Neodolpasse infusion treatment for the rest of his life. Is that what you want him to do? Then we must support this opportunity. [[Miklós Soltész intervenes.]] It's in health care. I regret that you have not been a part of this, but, Mr Secretary of State and my fellow Member, I will tell you why I am most sorry for you, and it is really humiliating to go to personal debates, and I would rather say that the position must always be defended. They listed how good it is to have reduced access to medication for patients, the elderly. Is that what you're trying to do to get your pensioners to live on medicine? Wouldn't the goal be to prevent illness, to avoid the need to take medication? In my opinion, that is the goal. I don't want to take medication when I'm retired, and I don't want to live to see, like many health workers, that you're in the hospital right now, but not as a nurse, but as a nurse, you're continuing your retirement as a nurse. That's what you have to think about very nicely. And if you have already listed the medicines that you support, antihypertensive angiotensin derivatives, gastric acid-lowering Omeprazole, mood-enhancing Xanax, Rivotril and others, then at the beginning of the debate... Mr Dömötör State Secretary is no longer here, he has gone, I would suggest that we include B6, Cerucal, Torecan, all of these medicines, because his speech was so cynical and nauseating that those who followed this parliamentary debate must take them. I really agree with Gabriella Selmeczi: it must not be personal and it must not be told a lie. And if there is a lie between the walls of Parliament, it must be protected. Secretary of State Soltés, there was a great lie from the benches of the socialists, and if that was a lie, it should have been refuted. They said that your party leader, who was then the leader of the faction, said to KDNP that they were clumsy, kneel to prayer. If that's a lie, ask them to knock out the table. But if it's true, is that why you've been silent, and you're going to tolerate it? I'm sorry for you, and it's true that for you to be a Christian... the fact that only one of the Ten Commandments has been able to keep so far is that you don't kill, I accept that. [[Intruder from Jobbik's ranks: "But they killed!" In Dunaújváros!]] I'm talking about the Parliaments in the first place. But the fact that they can't keep up with the rest, and with the shrine, they can face each Sunday like this, that's outrageous.
u2016-11-29-236	With all due respect, Congressman, to give men the opportunity to retire after 40 years of employment...
u2016-11-29-237	That's what it's about.
u2016-11-29-238	I'm trying, I'm trying to understand, but I'm in charge of the meeting, so please return to this.
u2016-11-29-239	And in the Ten Commandments there is one more: honor your father and mother, and united and the same. So the way women get paid, in my opinion, so do men. Let's keep that in mind. Thank you for listening. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2016-11-29-240	Secretary of State of Rétvár, on behalf of the government, please.
u2016-11-29-241	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, The Jobbik mentioned so much about their own program and ours, I went up and read what was in Jobbik's program. Jobbik programme, 2010, IV. Chapter 3, sub-heading 1.3. [[Tamás Sneider: There's fresher, but whatever.]] The socially useful sacrifice of mothers who are raising and working with children should also be recognised by the state, and Jobbik therefore provides a pension allowance for mothers. [[Tamás Sneider: That's right!]] In 2010, when Fidesz-KDNP said that the women introduced 40, Jobbik also described it in their own election program, not calling women 40, but as a pension allowance for women, women and mothers, which is essentially such a beautiful, euphemistic expression of women 40, that it introduces this for women, because then Fidesz-KDNP said so in the campaign. We meant it, we did it, we did it, we did it. You obviously put it in your own program, following some of this. They will now come up with a rebuttal of this, while they have written the same thing in the program that we have been talking about here for six hours or since we have shared in our bill, but after six years, you will break the principle of their own electoral program, which the Constitutional Court has confirmed in its 2015 resolution that we would empty this initiative open to women in case it should end. They are going against their own agenda, they are going against the decision of the Constitutional Court, because they believe that this month, too, we need to find something to open Jobbik to some new electoral group, as Mr Vice-President said in a previous statement that Jobbik needs to open to the retirement electoral camp. They've told me so many times about their own program, that's why I opened it and started reading about it. Please give me an understandable, understandable explanation that if in 2010 the Jobbik programme was written in their own election programme that women should be given a discount, then why is this statement not held, why has Jobbik's programme turned 180 degrees in this, as in many other respects. Here I looked at other points that Christian roots should be included in the Fundamental Law, and then this was not voted here in Parliament. To their honor, they at least came in to argue about it, as opposed to other opposition parties, so they were at least here during the debate. Here, too, was the proposal for private pension funds in the very area of this chapter, which they are currently going against in this debate. But we would all be happy, at this late hour, that they still have 17 minutes, and I see that they will no longer say that they support the 10 thousand HUF allowance for pensioners, nor that the increased pension increase, but at least give us a reason why they are holding a debate on a matter that contradicts Jobbik's 2010 election programme, and would not ensure that women are preferred, precisely because of their motherhood in the retirement system. Thank you very much. [[It's a rare round of applause from the pro-government ranks.]]
u2016-11-29-242	Thank you very much. Two-minute speech by Congressman Miklós Soltész, KDNP! [[21.10]]
u2016-11-29-243	Thank you very much, Mr President, and thank you very much for calling on him, warning Mr Rig at the deepest point in his speech. Thank you very much, I don't want your regrets too much, and it would be nice if I settled my life with your mind, but such an outrage, even here in Parliament, which you told me a few minutes ago, not even the SZDSZs allowed themselves last time. In one period, I met with them, when they supported an outrageous exhibition in the capital, to which a lot of people, even left-wing representatives and parties, were raving. So I'm asking you very nicely to stop this, that you're trying to make crosses from one side, stop saying that you have the cross in your party badge, and you're telling me this shame from the other side. Thank you very much for your contribution, which has confirmed, however, that you have no idea how to run a country, because you are throwing in a topic, throwing in a certain amount, which you have never said, because you are not actually saying, on the one hand, that there is money for it, on the other, that there is no money for it, but overall, you do not understand the contexts of either the pension system or the economic system. Therefore, your proposal is not only here, but also at other times completely unpredictable, unappreciable, and therefore society rejects your politics, because they dance here so once, they dance there once, about the terms they addressed to our lady representatives. [[To Lajos Rig:]] I'll tell you and your fellow Members, not to mention, but what you've told me has really been a disgrace to this day. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-11-29-244	A pre-notified speaker, the representative of Jobbik, Mr László György Lukács, is next. Here.
u2016-11-29-245	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Ladies and gentlemen of the State Secretary. I will break the pattern because, exceptionally, I would like to talk about the essence of the debate day itself, the proposal itself, and the 40-plus case of men in the Constitutional Court, the whole referendum initiative itself. It is very important to see the correct legal interpretation of this and what happened, yet in a chronological order, because this problem in itself did not come from a political party, not just political parties, but from life itself, from society itself, and wanted to answer a completely lifelike and very important problem. This is why, at the time, a signature collection was immediately started with the appropriate proposal with the right content, precisely so that the broadest mass of people could express their opinion that what Hungarian society could give to women can also be given to men, because I still believe that, despite the fact that women do have extra rights, the male society believes it is appropriate to support them even if it is at its own expense, but that the possibility for men to retire after working years does not fill the right that we have given to women and which we have included in the Fundamental Law, and it does not, in my view, cause social inequality, and it was a totally legitimate social proposition. The collection of signatures itself began according to a known scheme, and then it took an extremely unusual route, because, after we had succeeded in launching the referendum initiative on its path, it was immediately hanged by the National Election Committee, followed by an appeal, an appeal, in which the Chamber of the three-persons of the Curia, with a very interesting name in it, because not so long ago, perhaps a week ago, we made the Maros Ildikó a constitutional judge, who was the rapporteur's judge of the Curia decision itself, and otherwise gave an extremely good, extremely logical and legislative argument, and in which he also underlined that neither the budget nor the prohibited subject nor the prohibited subject was this proposal, and it can be reasonably concluded from it precisely the opposite, i.e. that it does not affect the budget. A similar, otherwise good justification was found in the Constitutional Court's decision, which, in the end, was in an unprecedented way, and perhaps in history, has not even been the case since a started collection of signatures was cancelled in the signature collection phase itself. Similarly well, the Stumpf István, who, by the way, is close enough to Viktor Orbán, did not have to present the person of the Constitutional Judge Stumpf to the fellow Members of the Fidesz. Well, he told me what the problem was, and that's what came out of it, and here, if we're talking about emptying women's rights under the Fundamental Law, he's about to point out that the operation of the Constitutional Court itself on this subject has been completely emptied and used to the contrary. It was used precisely to show that the discount for men, with which, I say, a broad social class has agreed and agrees to this day, and we have not heard the Fidesz people say that they agree with this, for example, it would be worth saying that they want and how they would like and agree, because they have not said anything, they have been wrong all along, well, this Constitutional Court decision has finally prevented people from expressing their views on this. It is quite obvious that most people - and here we are talking about women and men, about the unity of the family, because they are complete with women, men, husbands and wives - could have said yes or no, but I think that the vast majority of people believed and trusted that the opportunity that women have can be given to men. This was neither a legal obstacle nor a constitutional obstacle, it was simply a moral and moral crisis not only on the subject, but also on the legal system, using the ulterior intentions of the governing parties, the Constitutional Court. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2016-11-29-246	Thank you very much. Two-minute speakers, but from the same faction. I'd like to tell you that in a circle there's only one sign up, please, that you'll be in a later round. [[For signal:]] Congresswoman Gabriella Selmeczi in two minutes, please, Fidesz.
u2016-11-29-247	Thank you very much. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, About an hour ago, my Socialist fellow Member raised a question and it came out that it was not possible to respond to it in two minutes. Allow me to put this subject in its place. He raised it or said to us that there were no individual pension accounts. Let me inform Members who are not sure about the system, so their knowledge is not so deep that they know that they are registered, that today the public pension system is registering, on the one hand, the claims underlying the payment of contributions, so it collects and notes how much contributions have been paid by citizens and, on the other hand, it is very important that the service period is recorded. Compared to this, private pension funds registered the deposit as a bank statement. So the current state pension system contains a lot more information because it also records the period of service. So if someone retires or is facing a pension and asks how much their pension is expected, then this information is available and they can provide this information to pension insurance institutions at county level, within government windows. And what is very important is that in many cases this information has been formed mainly on paper with our older compatriots. In 98, a work started during the first Orbán government that we started taking this paper information to a computer and digitizing it, in 2002 the Socialist Government stopped this work. It is important to digitise these data because it would be easier, faster to extract these data. I just want to reassure everyone that the current retirement register is more than a simple account management. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-11-29-248	Thank you. As a spokesperson, Mr Bana Tibor, Jobbik!
u2016-11-29-249	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I had hoped that there would be a professional dialogue on this day's debate, but unfortunately, Fidesz was only used to cutting and misrepresenting, although we could get used to it here in Parliament and at local level, for example, in Körmend. With regard to early retirement, Jobbik has always taken the view that it was, of course, necessary to review it, but the retrospective procedure that you have done has been absolutely amazing, which is why we have protested against it in every possible forum. [[21.20]] This, by the way, was in line with what was typical of you in many other areas. To set no other example, such as disabled people, they have put in an extremely humiliating position with the changes they have made. You did not look at God or man when these changes were made. With regard to our collection and our initiative, I would like to say that the feedback was very positive, in my receiving hours, in my forums I heard only positive comments in this context. We hold such things, unlike our pro-government fellow Members, so we have had the opportunity to listen to a lot of opinions, and we have also consulted a lot of people on this issue. I would also like to underline, as I said last week on the labour market debate day, that Jobbik pays special respect to people who serve us on Sunday and have chosen a profession to help us. I am thinking of nurses, ambulances, doctors, firemen, soldiers, policemen, but I could also mention those who are also required to work on Sundays, because, let's say, they have to take care of catering or gas stations. However, it must also be said, Honourable Parliament, that the situation of factory workers has not improved in recent years either, since they have been put in a worse position than before, and have become much more vulnerable, with the labour code that they have adopted. However, we would also consider it important to ensure a 40-year retirement period for those who work in a spiritual capacity, as it is also a very serious stress and responsibility burden for these people, where appropriate. We, Jobbecks, also considered it important to get to know these jobs in person. I took part in volunteer work with my fellow Hungarian Zoltán Group at the Gyula Nyírő Hospital on three occasions, but unfortunately from the pro-government side, this did not happen, but you only came to hospitals or similar places during protocolary events. Finally, I would also like to point out in particular that at local level, too, there have been a lot of indications that, in the case of firefighters, who are particularly subject to serious physical and mental pressure, there should also be an adequate possibility for early retirement, but unfortunately, today's debate could not have taken place to have a substantive debate on this issue, since you have taken this matter in a completely different direction. Nevertheless, we will continue to strongly represent this position and, if not sooner, we will achieve this important point of the programme after we have entered the Government in 2018. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2016-11-29-250	Thank you very much. Congressman Péter Csizi, Fidesz representative, will be here in two minutes. Here you go.
u2016-11-29-251	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I waited patiently for Dániel Z. Carpathian to return. He was in there for 20 minutes, and he took a sentence... [[Z. Carpathian Daniel: Here I am!]] - Congressman's here. I'm very happy for you. [[Dániel Z. Carpathian: I came back for you!]] When you say you didn't hear professional contributions from the government horseshoe, I will quickly sum up my comment. My fellow Members, we have made it clear that, in recent times, several of us have argued in favour of what the United Nations World Aging Conference has said, what recommendations it has made since 1982. We have said the professional recognitions, such as the recommendations made by the University of Pécs, which asked for a paradigm change from politics, that life-style and lifestyle throughout life determine the policy of old age, and not only address the age group with programmes, but also address the person by getting a well-designed, complete human, social and sociological career system when he comes to his old age. When we are attacked by you about why we are talking about health care, we are talking about health care because the WHO states that one of the most important parts of the active ageing strategy is to make a health system available. Of course, we say that there was a HUF 600 billion development for this purpose, of which HUF 104 billion was used to buy new machines, new equipment, and, by the way, it has reached the health centers in rural areas, and they have been developed in the last five years. But WHO also states that care for the elderly in the home must also be improved. Take a look at the next year's measures and the planned proposals on changing home assistance, how we are trying to achieve compliance with WHO recommendations that are otherwise mandatory for the Member States by removing the four-hour limit per day. Ladies and gentlemen, We believe that ageing policy is not a withdrawn programme policy for a withdrawn age group, but a complex policy, which is covered by many international recommendations. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-11-29-252	I've just spoken in your speech, so I've allowed you to go through this for 43 seconds. Please note it in our relationship. [[Defiance.]] Now it's time for Congressman Gergely Kulcsár, Jobbik. Here you go.
u2016-11-29-253	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, On today's debate, I would like to address the issue of the retirement of the soldiers defending our country, in a very short time frame. While previously the general retirement age of professional staff was 57 years, counting the five years old and the retirement age at that time, while, under certain conditions, employment pensions could still be claimed after 25 years of service, it is no longer possible to do so and the age limit is the same as the general retirement age. To add, Jobbik agreed that extreme cases should be eliminated so that you could retire at thirty-six years of age. However, the time has come for a rethink of the current system. Unfortunately, according to experience, the average age of soldiers is less than 65 years old, and this may be a reason to change the upper limit of service. As we did not have any specific statistics, I submitted a written question to the Minister of Defence, in which I asked, among other things, how the average age of soldiers was broken down annually, how the age of soldiers was compared to the average age in Hungary. Unfortunately, I did not get a merit answer to these questions, although the general experience shows that soldiers do not even reach retirement age in the same proportion as the average Hungarian men. In addition, why do I say that the service hours of the soldiers must be maximized? Many soldiers serve in positions of health damage, and the number of men in dangerous positions is significant, and I am thinking of bombers - the unfortunate tragedy of Hortobágy in the summer - not to mention chemical workers, the various places of service with high noise pollution, and those serving in war zones and foreign missions. Increased use is also characteristic of some soldiers, 24-hour shifters, or that the circumstances at our borders are more harsh than before, due to migratory pressure and greater strain. But I could also say airplane pilots, and I could continue the line. Therefore, it would be entirely justified if soldiers did not have to wait until the retirement age for them to retire, as most of them are not even worth that age. With regard to men, the current pension system is unworthy and unfair, and if it is, this is particularly true about soldiers. I would therefore urge the Government and my fellow pro-government Members to consider our proposals instead of the eating of Jobbik. Thank you for listening. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2016-11-29-254	Thank you very much. There is no two-minute speaker, so we will continue with the list of speakers that have been announced. Congressman Adam Mirkóczki, Jobbik. Here you go.
u2016-11-29-255	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I am quite certain that I will not talk about what I wanted to talk about, given the quality that we have managed to bring out of this debate today. First of all, I would like to ask Péter Csizi what the WHO or the United Nations said about the.40 plus, because we knew nothing, and when you ask us why we claim that we have not received answers to our questions, or that we have not talked about the subject, then we simply say such things because during the nearly six-hour debate we have not managed to talk about one thing, none of them has been able to answer one question, namely what they think about retirement after 40 years of employment for men, what is their problem with this arrangement, what prevents you from giving men this opportunity. They didn't talk about it. In return, they threw all sorts of perceived or real grievances at our heads. We've been here since the SDS. There's been a lot of different things. If I were to demand the same style from my fellow Members, I do not think that our fellow Member, Gabriella Selmeczi, would have said what he was very sensitively asking for to you. [[21.30]] I would accept that, and I would agree with you, if you had done this right from the beginning and required the same from your own partymates. 'Cause I don't know how much your sensitivity fits, whether it's KDNP or Fidesz representatives today. 'Cause if I wanted to follow this level, I could end this with one sentence. Today, and almost every day for the past six years, you have demonstrated that the most corrupt, lying government and governing parties in the last 26 years. This is demonstrated at every moment when I really believe that we have succeeded in or failed to settle a debate day on a matter where it is about sooner or later that, regardless of party standing, everyone's supporters, sympathizers, family members and friends will be affected by this issue. In comparison, there was no moment of sound debate as to how this problem could be dealt with in relation to Hungarian society. I wanted to discuss the situation of law enforcement workers longer or more, with a somewhat similar critical edge to that of defence. I wanted to talk to the firefighters about whether the behaviour, on the part of the current government, is correct, I might add, not only for you, but in the spirit of fairness it must be said what could and should be done in order to address this rather serious deficiency and problem of Hungarian society. Unfortunately, it didn't work out. And first of all, it falls on you in the sense that what you've produced here today, and what you've thrown at us without an answer, slanders, lies, I think you're the first to qualify. In the same way as you are judged by the depth of today's Hungarian public life that has been pushed out of public money with the help of the media you are pumping. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2016-11-29-256	Congressman Miklós Soltész, KDNP, in two minutes.
u2016-11-29-257	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr Mirkóczki talked for three and a half minutes about what we had not said and said nothing about why they wanted all this anyway. Why didn't you vote six years ago for the introduction of a pension for women 40, why do you want to stand up for a pension policy and economic policy that would completely destroy the current pension system, which is now predictable, everyone can be absolutely calm about payment. There has been a ten percent increase over the last few years, and you have not once joined these decisions in the last six years. He has now listed all sorts of things that he should have told Gabriella Selmeczi and the MPs. You, honourable Member, have not said anything concrete, you have not answered the questions that we have raised, you have not told us how to maintain the pension system if it is repeatedly disrupted. From now on, once again, your policy on this issue, as in everything else, is unpredictable and frivolous. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2016-11-29-258	Thank you. Two-minute speech by Congressman Ander Balázs.
u2016-11-29-259	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Congressman Soltes, Why do we want all this? Because we want fair, flexible and functional career models for Hungarian workers. For those Hungarian workers who are not sipping tasty cocktails on the shores of the luxury swimming pool of 100 million villas inherited from Grandma, and who are not recreated like this, but who are flaunting themselves in the pulsating work. That's why we want it, period! Thank you for your attention. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2016-11-29-260	Congressman Péter Csizi, Fidesz, in two minutes.
u2016-11-29-261	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Anyone who watched only the last 15 minutes and the last right-wing speech, I think you have seen well how this debate took place here in Parliament today. Each representative has taken strategies, figures and statistics on the side of Fidesz and the government, the results of social policy and pension-related social policy programmes over the last six years. And, of course, Jobbik did everything they could to make it such a heated debate, as we heard in the last comment. Honourable Congressman, - by the way, I'm talking to Adam Mirkóczki. I am very sorry that you did not take the time left to talk about, for example, the early retirement of law enforcement workers. After all, we have had this debate here in Parliament years ago, and we have said that we do not think of the police on the street, the firefighting, the firefighters coming to the case as being involved in active work at the age of 50. It's not like that. We say that just because someone is older and is not suitable for active work, let's say, in the police or the fire department, he doesn't have to retire. But the police, the fire department and, by the way, the military system must also find the professional place, find the job and find the employment where we can count on the professional knowledge and experience of the people that they have acquired out there in practice. We are not saying that these people should be in practice over the age of 50, but that we say that they do not have to retire, but that, in order to protect these systems of state, their knowledge must be used for the country's prosperity. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-11-29-262	Mr. Tamás Sneider, the time frame of the faction.
u2016-11-29-263	One answer to Mr. Péter Csizi. I don't know what they thought, but right now, the poster cop has to work until he's 65, and he can get a five-year discount by being on duty, and he can be reinstated at any time. So, unfortunately, he could have thought of anything, but the thing is, he's 60 years old right now or soon, or 58 years old, he's running after the thief by the law. So that is the fact that is now in Hungary. But I just want to say one more comment. Obviously, it is difficult to categorise today's debate, and I will not now, but I would just like to point out that, for the last time, my fellow Members of the Fidesz, when this day of debate was fought or extorted, they faced 76 percent of the Hungarian society. 76 percent say that men should have the opportunity, not compulsory, but have the opportunity to retire in Hungary after 40 years of employment. 7 million 600,000 people. And interestingly, here you are, please, broken down by age, how many people support you. [[He's showing it to me.]] What does God say, even from the retirement age that it doesn't concern, but you're just talking about them, by the way, completely unrelated to the subject, with two-thirds support. And what I like very much, and it perfectly shows solidarity with you in Hungarian society, that 80 percent of young people between the ages of 19 and 29 think that their parents can retire with 40 years of work. Because they see what their parents suffer. They see that they will not stand this work, as in these letters, children have written, young, parents' children have written hopelessly about what their parents need to experience. Well, you are at the moment, and that's why I'm glad that this debate was so dirty on your part, because you attacked them, this 7 million 600 thousand people and 80 percent of young people. But in other age groups, it's the same high number. Congratulations. Let's hope he gets the benefit. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2016-11-29-264	Congresswoman Gabriella Selmeczi, Fidesz, as a representative asking for a normal word, please.
u2016-11-29-265	Thank you very much, Mr. President. And thank you for your technical assistance. Allow me, in my last comment, to give a little summary of what has been said today and the lesson of the debate day. It is still an open question to me why my fellow opposition Members were so nervous, why they reacted so harshly and insultingly. I still can't figure this out, and I don't understand. In the second point, let me point out that by the end of the debate day, at the end of the debate day, we did not get an answer to those questions. [[Ádám Mirkóczki: We are not the government.]] why, for example, they did not support the proposal for women to retire after 40 years of employment. [[Adam Mirkóczki: We only told you 15 times.]] [[21.40]] I say to my colleague Tamás Sneider with great respect: surely society would have asked you to leave after 40 years of employment, and at least 76 percent would have said yes in support, not just of men, but of women. So if you're starting with this statistics, I'm just saying... why didn't you vote for it? And to continue with the question, I really don't understand that if your... you couldn't explain why you didn't vote for the Women 40. [[Interviews from Jobbik's ranks, including: If you don't understand, it's a big problem.]] And then they couldn't explain why it's incomprehensible to us that if men were given this discount now, then why didn't they give it to women at the time, why they didn't vote for it. Many of us have asked this question in the context of the constructive debate that we do not understand your attitude. [[There are constant interruptions from Jobbik's ranks.]] Let me recap my mind to say that I am sorry, but you and the Socialists who have already passed away are both uncredited. After that, not to vote in favour of women's society for the opportunity to retire after 40 years of employment, which we have said is that it is not a pension system, it is not a question of pension policy, but a question of family policy, if men are supported in this, then why are women not supported in this? This is also incomprehensible to us, and we have not received an answer to that question here. We do not understand the socialists, or have known them for a long time, but we do not understand how they come up with, for example, the problem of retirement age and criticize the retirement age when they were the ones after the change of regime, several times after the change of regime, who raised the retirement age for both women and men. I would point out that I would continue to demand from my fellow opposition Members that they try to think in a context, because this is a social policy issue and that they should try to think in a strategy. When we talk about the situation of the elderly and about the existence, livelihood, and appreciation of the elderly, we do not take the same subject, but look at this situation in its context. So not only the monthly salary, whether pensions or any other benefits, we look at it, but we did talk about the cost of housing, my fellow Members talked about the reduction of the rent, we talked about the reduction of the VAT, we talked about the whole family support system. After all, elderly people also live in families, relatives, I hope most of them do. So when we support the rest of the family, parents and children, it also affects the elderly. So when we talk about free textbooks, free catering, it also affects the elderly because we think in the family. [[Ádám Mirkóczki: I pay for both children.]] At a time when we know that older people use health care to a much greater extent, that they buy much more drugs, we do bring up positive developments in rural hospitals, for example, and, yes, we are positive about the fact that we have won more battles with pharmaceutical manufacturers and are paying a much lower fee for sick people than before 2010. So I would ask everyone, or I would ask everyone for the future, to try to think whole, in a family and in a strategy, and once again, to try to improve the culture of debate. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties. Defiance in Jobbik's ranks.]]
u2016-11-29-266	Thank you very much. Mr Soltész, Member KDNP, asked for a two-minute speech. Here.
u2016-11-29-267	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, I am sorry that Tamás Sneider spoke the words of the debate partners that he was referring to. It seems that not only your medium- and long-term memory is bad, but also short. They were your representatives, who constantly insulted our Members by yelling at our women, including in their comments. [[Intercoms from Jobbik's ranks.]] I will not re-qualify the position of another Member. And I am sorry that you have forgotten that in your election promises in 2010, you said that early retirements would be proposed if you were to go to government, cancel a series of proposals or support for which you have until then, or that women, mothers, would be supported in some way - they did not express precisely, but in some form - their early retirement. Compared to this, in December 2010 we did not support all of this, which we added to the 40, for women. You can say that 70,000 people didn't get it, I don't know where they get this number. [[Adam Mirkóczki: KSH!]] But you've deceived 180,000 people. They tricked me and didn't vote for it! After that, it must be said that they will come here with any proposal from this point on, because we have seen this in recent weeks, in months, how hysterical they have made about the amendment of the Constitution, that they have said that whoever does not vote for it is a traitor, and then you have become the greatest traitors. [[Upstairs, interruptions from Jobbik's ranks, including Tamás Sneider: Why are you lying?]] So your proposal is frivolous and irresponsible for two things. It is frivolous, because they know that they could not achieve it, and it is irresponsible, because they have not put any economic calculations or anything behind it, nor have they put the foundations behind it, so that they can, at some level, be seriously discussed. Thank you very much, Mr President, for this opportunity. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties. - Intercoms from Jobbik's ranks, including Dániel Z. Carpathian: You should have paid attention at the beginning.]]
u2016-11-29-268	Thank you very much. Dear Members, ladies and gentlemen of the Council, I ask only out of duty whether anyone else wishes to make use of the opportunity to speak in the remaining time frame. [[Noise. Interviews from Jobbik: KDNP hands it over. The LMP gave it to us, they told us. Defiance.]] Thank you very much for the tips. I'll record everything in my head. Then I'll say no. So, on behalf of the government, I will appeal to the Secretary of State of Retvári and give him the opportunity to speak on behalf of the government.
u2016-11-29-269	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. I'm alive and I'm not using the word. [[Intercoms from Jobbik's ranks.]] I thank everyone who participated in this debate. I think that what has been an important fact about retirement and old age for the past 20 to 25 years has been an important step, has been said. What was an important vote, we have been able to draw attention to it; what can authenticate the political players, the results that have been made, and which can discredit the political players, has also been said. Those who followed one part or another of the debate could see who the words described would become an act and who did not become an act. I can assure everyone who is elderly or elderly that those who want to make a living from work are guaranteed by this government, if they raise a child with him, that some of the public burdens, or even all of the public burdens, will be relieved. If you are elderly, we try to give as much pension as possible, we have made one of the greatest increases in this, and perhaps the largest increase in the proportion of the value of the purchase has occurred in the last six years. That's what we'd like to carry on. Hungary has the economic basis for this, and we have established the economic basis for the value-proofing of pensions in recent years, and this is clearly growing in the coming years. The good news of today is, I think, for pensioners and those who are about to retire - for those who are about to retire, the fact that Hungary has once again made a record in employment is that, following the negotiations over the last few weeks, we can expect a wage increase of as much as we have never seen before. I am not saying this, but the surveys that measure the wage-raising ideas of businesses year after year. They are higher than ever before, so everyone will be able to take a pension after higher incomes. And for a pensioner, both the HUF 10,000 allowance in December and the 1.6 percent increase, I think it's good news. These positive points, everyone can still count on this government, and the rest will be handled by everyone at their local value, and I wouldn't even agree to that right now, just thank you for the opportunity, and thank you to everyone who participated in the debate. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-11-29-270	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, That concludes the political debate. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the discussion of our agendas today. It is now time for the speeches after the agenda. After the agenda, MEP Dániel Z. Kárpát, representative of Jobbik, has applied for a speech:, For how long? It's an address. It's my duty to give you an answer for five minutes, because that's your time frame. [[Defiance.]] Here you go.
u2016-11-29-271	Mr President, Dear House, A very unworthy day of debate has just taken place, despite Jobbik's best intention to make it possible for men to retire after 40 years in Hungary. [[21.50]] We've been talking about the dehydrated economic environment that this government has deepened. Unfortunately, with the introduction of new exotic tax types and tax increases, you have put the accounting profession in a position where more than 60 such increases are already known. And here, too, what Mr Rétvári, Secretary of State, who is fortunately still present with his 3-4 Fidesz fellow Member with KDNP, I would like to comment once again, because he did not understand in one of his previous representatives' speeches how we fit in with the OECD statements. I would also like to say here that according to the OECD, the tax burden imposed in Hungary remains well above the OECD average, especially for single earners. This is also found in this spring report, and the tax gap has been analysed in more detail here, expressing the difference between the total costs charged to the employer and the amount received by the employee, namely as a percentage of the previous one, and I also noted in the previous debate that the gap and the amazing gap between the OECD average and the Hungarian one, in particular with regard to the unique earners, are at the expense of the Hungarian one. We are talking about a 45.7 percent tax gap compared to the 36.5% average, so in Hungary not only families with two children are unduly affected, but those who are trying to thrive on the labour market are also subject to a brutal tax burden for single earners. This was explained in the previous debate. I hope that makes sense. At the same time, we must say that this is just one side of the matter, because, in addition to the tax burden on income and the fact that the minimum wage has failed to achieve a tax-free form of benefit, it is also a brutal EU record rate of 27 per cent of VAT baptised as a tax on the poor, not only for families, but also for essential consumer goods, but a demographic turn is expected in an environment created by you, where it is true in the whole of Europe that children's education articles are subject to the most brutal tax. At the same time, when the issue of pensions has already been discussed, it should be said that this government, which actively contributes to the gradual increase in retirement age by 2022, starts to train the public from 62 to 65 years, and in so-called professional bersers, that the rate of increase in retirement age may continue, can be expected to introduce a kind of basic pension, so that society, the general public, are trying to add further restrictions to this system. And we have mentioned today the most brutal phenomenon, two points of which, in the event of its unsolvability, there is no way to prevent a socio-social disaster in Hungary; in this case, we are not talking about the situation of foreign exchange lenders, because we have discussed this in detail in several speeches. But we need to talk about two factors that can create incredible problems and troubles. One is that some 800,000 of our countrymen are known who, according to the current rules, will not be able to obtain or obtain any pension rights, i.e. in their old age they would be almost exclusively subject to so-called elderly people's benefits. At the same time, it is impossible to make a living from this, to stay on its feet in Hungary as well, and in later Hungary it is likely to be even more difficult. In addition, during today's debate, a significant proportion of the Ratkó age class members who had to work as forced entrepreneurs or under the minimum wage or not declared to the retirement age in a fair manner will not be able to receive a measurable, significant part of them, if necessary, of the pension equivalent to EUR 100. So, obviously, this amount cannot be enough to stay on its feet, which is why Jobbik is committed to keeping the value of the amounts paid by the pension system, while increasing the size of the national economy's cake by active economic intervention, by standing on its own feet, by taxing production, by reviewing the benefits paid to multinationals and by concluding new strategic contracts, not with members of multinational networks, but with Hungarian small and medium-sized enterprises, with those who carry this country on their backs. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2016-11-29-272	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, István Szávay, representative of Jobbik, applied for a post-meeting speech:. Total national freedom for the peoples living together - The promise of the Romanian People's Assembly in Gyulafehérvár on 1 December 1918 is still unrequited! It's an address. Here.
u2016-11-29-273	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen of the Council, you are still in this room. In two days there will be 1 December, the 98th anniversary of the Gyulafehérvár National Assembly declaring the separation of Transylvania, Prosperity and Romanians in Hungary. And while we know that Romania's borders were not drawn either in 1918 or after 1945 in Gyulafehérvár or Bucharest, the Romanians will still celebrate the creation of Great Romania, which on paper offered the widest ethnic rights, among other things, to Transylvanian Hungarians. On 1 December 2004, the Romanian political elite, among other things, promised the Transylvanian Hungarians of 1.7 million people at the time that it would guarantee total national freedom for all the peoples living together. Each people will use public education, public administration and justice in their own language by means of individuals from their own bosoms. All peoples will have the right of representation in the legislation and in the governance of the country in proportion to the number of individuals belonging to it. Equal rights and complete religious freedom for all denominations of the country. But they also promised to ensure the free circulation of the perfect freedom of press, association and assembly and of all human thoughts. Dear Parliament, We are well aware that hardly any of these have been realised in recent decades. Mostly the most political campaign against the autonomous political leaders of the Transylvanian Hungarians has been held for years, with fewer and fewer people dare to play a public role in Transylvania. At the same time, the Romanian authorities are chasing the Szekler and the Hungarian flag, our mother tongue, our national prayers, writers and poets.By 2016 we came to the point that a Szekler little girl in Cluj-Napoca did not receive adequate medical care because the doctor said she could not speak Romanian well enough. But the Romanian authorities are banning the Szekler Day of Freedom and are trying to criminalise the struggle for Szekler autonomy by suspecting two Szekler patriots of terrorist acts. In the public administration and justice system, as opposed to the promises promised in Gyulafehérvár, the Hungarian language is still barely usable to date, because the relevant laws are not even implemented, so among other things the Hungarian language forms, street and settlement signs are missing, and the number of judges who know Hungarian is small. The conditions of Hungarian language education are also tightening, schools are being vetted, and the sluggish return of church property is being hindered by all means. Recently, the College of Mikó Székely was renationalized, and now the second in Târgu Mures II. Ferenc Rákóczi's Roman Catholic High School was subjected to a genderless attack. To date, there is no independent Hungarian-language university maintained by the Romanian state in Transylvania, and despite the relevant law at the University of Medicine and Pharmacy in Muresvásárhely, the Hungarian department has not been established. The problems could be classified for a long time, while the Romanians are preparing to celebrate the 100th anniversary of the great merger by 2018. In the framework of this, Romanian legislation recently declared the executioner of the southern Transylvanian Hungarians, the scorcher of Zalatna, Nagyenyed and other settlements, Avram Iancut, a Romanian national hero, and just today, obviously not entirely by accident, the inscription reminiscent of the Romanian army's entry in Budapest in 1919 was returned to the triumphal arch in Bucharest. In the West, a campaign will be launched shortly to demonstrate the legitimacy of the 1920s and 1947s ratification provisions, to prove that modern Romania gives all the amazing rights to Transylvanian Hungarians. I firmly believe that the entire foreign, foreign and domestic Hungarian institutional system must prepare for this and remind the world and Bucharest in as many ways as possible that it does not even honour its promises in Gyulafehérvár in 1918, let alone provide the legal solutions that would otherwise be followed, such as Italy for the Germans in South Tyrol or Finland for the Swedes in the Åland Islands. Dear Parliament, In connection with the unfulfilled promises in Gyulafehérvár tomorrow afternoon, I will be standing before the embassy of Romania in Budapest, while sympathizers of the Transylvanian groups of Jobbik will be raising their voice against the ongoing repression of the Romanian Hungarians in Târgu Mureş, Székelyudvarhely, Oradea and Barót at 4:00 p.m. at the same time in Gyulafehérvár. [[22.00]] On the part of Jobbik, we encourage the government to make the world aware in as many forums as possible and in as many ways as possible over the next two years that the Romanian Hungarians are still oppressed and, in many cases, they live as a limited minority in their ancestors' land, and Romania is even in debt in compliance with its promises in 1918. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2016-11-29-274	Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speeches after the agenda. I would like to inform you that the next meeting of the autumn session is expected to take place on 5 December 2016. I thank you for your work, the meeting is closed. Good night, everyone. [[The meeting ended at 10:01 p.m.]]
