u2016-05-13-0	Dear Parliament, The 26th day of the Spring Session of the Parliament is hereby opened. I would like to inform you that at the meeting, Attila Gelencsér and Ádám Mirkóczki will help me. Welcome to our guests and to all those who monitor our work. Dear Parliament, Following are the individual tax laws and other related laws, as well as the 2010 National Tax and Customs Office CXXII. General discussion of the bill amending the law until closure. The government referral is T/10537. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. Dear Parliament, I would remind you that the Parliament has decided to negotiate the general debate on this proposal within a five-hour time frame. I would ask Mr Attila Gelencsér to explain the time frame.
u2016-05-13-1	Dear Parliament, The five-hour timeframe is divided into 103 minutes for the Fidesz Group, 57 minutes for the MSZP Group, 47 minutes for the KDNP Group, 51 minutes for the Jobbik Group, 31 minutes for the LMP Group and 11 minutes for the independent Members.
u2016-05-13-2	Thank you, Mr. Notary. Dear Parliament, First, I give the floor to Mr András Tállai, Secretary of State of the Ministry of National Economy, author of the item on the agenda, within a 30-minute time frame. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2016-05-13-3	Thank you. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear Members of Parliament, Ladies and Gentlemen, On 3 May, the Government submitted to Parliament certain tax laws and other related laws, as well as CXXII of 2010 on the National Tax and Customs Office. a bill amending the law. This family- and business-friendly tax package, which is in front of you and also serves as a basis for the 2017 budget, is based on four main pillars. It will, on the one hand, bring about tax reductions and, on the other hand, reduce administrative burdens, thirdly support businesses and, not least, whiten the economy. With this tax package containing a series of facilitations, we will continue the work started in 2010. We are strengthening the established growth-enhancing tax system that has been helping families to thrive for years; it is playing a role in preserving and creating jobs; it reduces the tax burden on small and medium-sized enterprises; it encourages the development of businesses; it improves investment. We will also continue with a series of internationally recognised novel solutions to combat the black economy. As a result, the efficiency of tax collection has improved spectacularly in Hungary and tax revenues have increased sharply. At the same time, we are strengthening predictability; we are maintaining our credibility restored over the last years; we are serving the trust of all families, workers, entrepreneurs, investors and investors. We do this with consistent tax policy, decisions and measures that support each other and build on each other. Dear House, Work on tax reductions will continue next year. This proposal carves several points on public burdens, leaving tens of billions in the pockets of the population. The overall sales tax on poultry meat, eggs and fresh milk is reduced to 5 per cent, which means that the state will give up HUF 18-20 billion for poultry meat, HUF 10-11 billion for eggs and HUF 4-5 billion for fresh milk, i.e. approximately HUF 35 billion for people next year. The reduction of the VAT on the internet service and restaurant meals to 18 per cent is HUF 12-13 billion for the Internet, HUF 8-9 billion for the restaurant meal, and therefore approximately HUF 20 billion for the people together. This is 15-20 thousand forints for a retired couple, 30-35 thousand forints for a large family, and for a family with two children, including a personal income tax allowance of 80-85 thousand forints per year, only as a result of these tax changes. Dear Parliament, Our second pillar is the reduction of administration. Among other things, we want to provide over half a million individuals with automatic, non-remuneration payments. The simplification does not require charging of a payment facilitation data sheet. A simple request that can be made orally in the customer service is enough. The simplification provides a maximum six-month bonus-free detail for non-VAT individuals with a maximum of HUF 200,000. The tax package also reduces the administrative burden on families. Thus, for example, the individual who grants the family discount does not need to present the tax advance declaration for granting the benefit to the employer of the other entitled spouse or parent and then be signed and stamped. Dear Parliament, The third pillar of the tax package is to make it easier for all farmers regardless of business form and size. A series of measures were developed to promote labour mobility, one of the most important business-friendly elements. In order to promote employment, it is a key issue to resolve domestic social constraints and to support labour movement and mobility by all available means. [[8.10]] In larger cities, employment is almost complete, but in less developed areas there is still a gap, with a number of tax policy instruments being put in place with this tax bill. Thus, the tax-free cost of going to work increases from HUF 9 per kilometre to HUF 15 per kilometre. In addition to housing aid for mobility which the employer is exempt from tax, the expenses for the establishment and maintenance of working accommodation are also subject to preferential corporate tax. I would also like to highlight the amendment of the personal income tax and corporate tax benefits which encourage the investment of self-employed and small and medium-sized enterprises, resulting in the removal of the thresholds for the application of the benefits from 2017. Dear House, Clicks are not excluded from the positive changes, as next year the income of the small-taxing company will not have to be regarded as the income of the aid paid to cover the cost or for development purposes. So far, above the revenue threshold of HUF 6 million, this has resulted in an additional tax liability for them. The excavators are better off next year. The amendment leaves a billion forints more than them. Due to the substantial simplification of the rules, the tax liability will be more predictable and more favourable than before, so businesses will make use of it and choose this simplified method of taxation. Several companies will be able to meet the conditions of the number of employees in the future, since the kiva will be selected in the future up to 50 employees instead of 25 people so far. We attract the domestic tax system to install and keep R &amp; D centres in Hungary. Companies that employ a significant number of researchers and operate primarily or exclusively R &amp; D activities in Hungary are typically operating at low profits, so they cannot benefit from the R &amp; D discount scheme provided in corporate tax. We allow these companies to reduce their social contribution tax on researchers who are employed by up to 50 per cent of their R &amp; D discount, which is not used in company tax. Therefore, in return, we expect them to help our young professionals acquire up-to-date knowledge by providing practical space for students of Hungarian higher education institutions. We reduce the bank tax, we also eliminate the credit institution's benefit, which will reduce the tax burden on the credit institution sector by HUF 25 billion in total. We are doing this in order to enable these financial institutions to strengthen their lending activity, thus strengthening the Hungarian economy, increasing the ability of Hungarian businesses to finance. We'll also help you get into the stock market. Public limited liability companies that enter the stock exchange may receive reliable taxpayer ratings sooner. In general, after three years of non-problem-free operation, businesses can receive a reliable taxpayer rating from NAV, which provides them with various advantages during the tax procedure. However, public limited liability companies admitted to the stock exchange may receive this classification even in the first year of their operation, unless a tax infringement is committed. In fact, these companies will receive the amount of the refund earlier, and from 1 January 2017 they will receive the amount of the refund within 30 days instead of the usual 45 days, and from 1 January 2018 even more favourable. Ladies and gentlemen, The bill before you will revive the Career Bridge discount. The discount is extremely favorable and simple. The point is that for one year, only half of the social contribution tax is payable to the employer who employs a public employee. This means that the employer can apply 13.5 per cent of the social contribution tax it pays for a period of 12 months. Discounts can be used from the public sector, for example, for civil servants, government-owned, military-owned redundant persons. We will also expand the benefits of the job protection action plan. On the one hand, for the purpose of calculating the period for permanent job seekers to be registered as job seekers for at least 183 days within 275 days, the duration of participation in public employment to benefit will be taken into account in the future, contrary to the stricter rules so far. On the other hand, a tax benefit can also be applied to a worker under the age of 25, so that will also be possible in the future. Other benefits are included in the extensive bill; I would like to highlight two of them. In the corporate tax, the discount system for the renovation of historic buildings will then leave a billion HUF at the companies and companies involved in the renovation. The cost of operating the daycare center is recognised as a cost in the corporate tax system, with which it is expected to stay more than one billion forints in companies that help the children of workers in daycare. Dear Parliament, In the fight against the black economy, eight years had to be short-lived, and according to the data, this was successful. The success of online cash registers and EKAER is also demonstrated by the recognition of honest traders and the interest of other countries. Success can also be quantified on the revenue side of the budget: in 2014 it brought HUF 180-190 billion to the Treasury, and last year the system guaranteed an additional surplus of around 60-90 billion compared to the previous year. The tax package for economic whitening gives the NAV new tools to be able to act more effectively against fraudulent taxpayers in order to protect budget revenues and decent taxpayers. Online invoicing comes after the online cash register and the EKÁER, which will be an effective tool in the face of chained VAT fraud. The aim is to provide information in real time for invoices issued with invoicing programmes, similar to cash registers already connected to the tax authority. [[8.20]] This will greatly increase the targeting of controls, including their effectiveness. If, thanks to the new systems set up, the tax office detects the tax margin already in the stage of fraud, this could mean an increase in the budget in another ten billion. In the fight against the black economy, the work of the NAV will be supported by a number of other measures from 2017. For example, next year, the threshold for a lot of VAT declarations will be reduced from HUF 1 million to HUF 100 thousand, and the over-packed vans that are fraudulently transported in the country will also have to be checked out by the EKÁER system, since they have not yet been notified, and they will also have to be announced in the future. The advertising tax ensures that world companies engaged in economic activities in Hungary are not exempt from the obligation to pay a public burden. We create greater rigour in order to force the fulfilment of the advertising tax obligation, so next year the Hungarian Google tax, i.e. advertising tax, can enter a new stage. As a historical opportunity, the amendment ensures that global companies that split up by at least a quarter of the total advertising port in Hungary will benefit from the Hungarian public burden payment obligation. Thus, for example, an exponentially increasing fine of HUF 10 million may be calculated by an advertiser not registered as a taxpayer in Hungary, which, despite the tax authority's call, does not comply with its obligation to notify. The rules for setting the tax base for related enterprises are also tightened and the tax base benefits for intangible assets are adapted to international expectations. Dear Parliament, One of the objectives of the proposal before you is to comply with Hungary's obligation to harmonise legislation resulting from its membership of the European Union. In 2014, the European Union adopted an amendment to a directive to increase the transparency of certain large companies while avoiding unjustified increases in their administrative burden. The aim of this amendment is to create a level playing field and increase the diversity of businesses. All these efforts are also to be followed for Hungary. A high interest in the preparation of the proposal has shown that disclosure of non-financial information can also play a very important role in Hungary today. As a transposition of the Directive, the proposal establishes an additional obligation to publish non-financial information on the environment, social and employment issues, respect for human rights and the fight against corruption for large-scale public-interest farmers. Dear House, The proposal was made in the spirit of ensuring that domestic rules are not stricter than EU standards. The Hungarian Government does not aim to impose unnecessary administrative burdens on businesses, so it only requires companies to present information that must be published by EU rules. I also stress that the additional disclosure rules in Hungary will only affect the largest companies from 2017 onwards. Honourable Members, Two measures concerning excise duty are mentioned. On the one hand, from 1 September 2016 the rate of excise duty on gas oil, petrol and petroleum will be linked to the world market price. The measure will only increase the rate of certain fuels by HUF 10/litre for gas oil and HUF 5/litre for petrol if the world market price for oil falls below a certain threshold of USD 40 or USD 50 per litre, depending on the Parliament's decision, but if the world market price increases, the rate of fuel will return to the previous level. In this way, the tax measure can only have a minimal impact on fuel prices and, in addition, an increase in the amount of tax refunds to be paid by carriers and farmers in proportion to the rising rate. On the other hand, with regard to excise duty, there is also a rise in the rate of taxation of manufactured tobacco in three instalments, taking into account the EU's minimum tax rates. The first stage of this increase will be 1 September 2016 and the second will be 1 January 2017 according to the bill. Dear Parliament, The package of proposals also includes the National Tax and Customs Office's career model, which ensures a significant increase in the income of employees there. On average, the income of NAV employees increases by 30 percent from July this year. The new system of advancement will also help to transform the NAV professional and organisationally, while keeping employees. The government is committed to raising the incomes of state officials and developing a career model that has already taken place in teachers and law enforcement workers. In the case of the NAV, employees who are subject to the law can expect a total increase of 50 per cent in three steps and workers covered by the Labour Code can receive a one-off increase of 30 per cent. There is also a substantial change in the salary system with the tax authority according to the design of the career model. The bill transforms the complex, complex bonus system. If my fellow Members support this proposal, for example, the management, hazard and driver's allowance will be eliminated, but there will remain the extra for foreign languages, standby or nighttime. In jobs where the NAV staff take greater responsibility and risk, we introduce the public service allowance, which can range from 50 per cent of the salary base up to 650 per cent. The cost of the increase planned from July 2016 is HUF 10 billion, which is why this year's budget should not be amended, because this amount is available as a provision and further coverage is created by the 2017 budget. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, I believe that the measures contained in the proposal before you represent significant advantages for Hungarian families, significant benefits and support for Hungarian businesses, thus serving the development of the economy, the Hungarian people and Hungarian businesses will benefit if the Parliament adopts the bill. This way, please. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-05-13-4	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, It is now time for the speeches by its representatives. In the first round, the keynote speeches will take place in a 20-20-minute time frame by group of representatives. First, I give the floor to Congressman Roland, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group.
u2016-05-13-5	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, After the budget, we have the second most important economic legislation, the tax laws of 2017. First of all, I would like to stress the importance of the fact that the tax laws, together with the budget, are already being discussed at this early stage by the Parliament. We can do this because we already feel so sure and predictable about the performance of the Hungarian economy and the functioning of public finances that we can afford such early planning. In this way, we send a message to the actors of domestic and international economic life that Hungary is a sure point in our world with various uncertainties, a place where it is worth investing, where it can be planned predictablely. Before I go to the changes in the area of taxes in 2017, let me briefly summarise how tax policy has followed in recent years, how we have come to this point. [[8.30]] After 2010, the second Orbán government gradually reduced labour taxes as far as economic opportunities were concerned, and later also some traffic taxes where they were most needed. In addition, it introduced tax incentives to encourage children and help families. In 2010, we voted in favour of a single-key 16 percent personal income tax that reduced the burden on labour. As a result of the single-key scheme and the family tax relief, in 2011 460 billion, in 2012 475 billion, in 2013 almost 540 billion, in 2014 nearly 600 billion, and in 2015 about 660 billion forints remained with the families. In six years, the change of the former Szja system, the single-key Szja system, first thanks to the introduction of the 16 per cent key and then in 2016 the 15 per cent key, left about HUF 3600 billion to the tax-paying citizens of Hungary. By 2016, the personal income tax rate decreased further, from 16 to 15 percent, leaving 4 million people with 120 billion HUF more on their table. For two average earners, the annual income of a family increased by more than 56 thousand forints, and for two minimum wage earners by more than 25 thousand forints. Another important feature of the Hungarian model is that the state did not correct public finances by taxing people, but by imposing special taxes on banks and multinational companies. We are proud of the family tax system, which we have also introduced to counterbalance the negative demographic trends in our country. From 2016 the tax allowance for families with two children increased to HUF 12 500 per child, and then doubled for the next three years. The measure can increase the annual income of a family with two children by up to HUF 60,000. Let us not forget that in recent years some 1.1 million people have lost their taxes by using family tax incentives, including over 300,000 people who did not have to pay taxes at all. From 2015 the tax payable for the purpose of increasing the desire to get married can be reduced by HUF 5 thousand per month for 24 months. Although tax philosophy has benefited from a reduction in labour taxes, as the economy has improved as a result of responsible public finances policy, it has also been possible to reduce targeted VAT in areas where a targeted reduction of the price of basic food or food products could clearly have resulted in a reduction of the burden. From 2011, the book will be subject to a reduced tax rate of 5%, any other physical medium of reproduction of books such as loud books and so-called live music services. From 2012 onwards, services providing exclusive entry to ensure the functioning of musical events will be subject to a reduced tax rate of 18%. From 2013 onwards, some medical aids have been subject to a reduced rate of 5%. From 1 January 2014, the VAT rate of 5% for live and half-carcases was introduced, and from positive experience on 1 January 2015, the VAT rate applicable to the sale of large animals of the intermediate product - cattle, sheep, goats and carcases was reduced from 27 per cent to 5 per cent on 1 January 2015. The reduction of the VAT rate on the sale of housing from 27 to 5 per cent from 1 January 2016 was an extremely important decision. In addition, the tax refund support for housing constructions has enabled Hungarian families to get a better price for a good quality new home. Ladies and gentlemen, These measures are all very important in themselves, and there is a great deal of work behind all these steps, but let us not forget that this is not primarily due to the government or the Parliament, but to the joint merit of Hungarian citizens and Hungarian people. At the same time, it is worth recalling, to the extent of a bad scrap of memory, what was the tax policy between 2002 and 2010, while the socialists were ruling. They started immediately in 2003, raising corporate tax. Then, in 2005, the tax relief of families with multiple children was continued, abolished or reduced in the same way. They also reduced corporate tax relief for companies operating in disadvantaged regions, and I stress that this was done by a left-wing government. The standard VAT rate was reduced from 25 to 20 per cent before the 2006 elections, but after the elections the reduced VAT rate of 15 per cent was abolished, thus placing a number of products below the VAT rate of 20 per cent, but already in 2009 it was developed by an additional 5% increase in the standard VAT rate. After a brief memorization, allow me to turn to some of the most important measures contained in next year's tax laws. According to the bill, VAT on poultry meat, eggs and fresh milk is reduced to 5 percent and VAT on internet services and restaurant meals is reduced to 18 percent, leaving at least HUF 55 billion more than people next year. For more than 350 thousand families with two children, the monthly tax reduction will increase by another HUF 5 000 to HUF 30,000, and for families with two children the planned VAT reduction and the increase in the personal income tax allowance may leave between HUF 80 and 85 thousand next year. In the case of tax debt, individuals can automatically receive a six-month instalment up to HUF 200,000, and the limitation period for execution is reduced, which is in the interests of taxable persons, since while the NAV has four years to implement, overpayment can be recovered for five years. Labour mobility, which is extremely important for our country's economy, with a package of measures to encourage labour mobility, businesses and workers will gain about HUF 9 billion in total. In part, when travelling to work by car, the rate of tax-free compensation increases from 9 to 15 forints per km now, and in part the costs of setting up and maintaining working accommodations also benefit from corporation tax. The threshold limits for investment-enhancing personal income tax and corporate tax benefits for small and medium-sized enterprises will be removed from 2017. The changes will also be favourable to those who opt for a specific tax on small-tax enterprises, as next year the subsidies received will not have to be regarded as income for the small-taxing company. Next year, if the amendments are accepted and supported by the House, it will be one billion HUF more than those who voted for the small company tax. KIVA will be available to 50 employees instead of 25 so far. In the spirit of combating the black economy next year, the threshold for a specific VAT declaration will be reduced from one million to 100 thousand forints, automatic equipment will be connected to the tax office, and by modifying the electronic road traffic control system, traders carrying overloaded vans will be able to be filtered out. From 1 September, excise duties on diesel, petrol and petroleum would be linked to the world market price for oil. If this would mean additional revenue, this would be used to renovate the domestic roads, especially the lower roads. As of 2017, tobacco products will have a stamp instead of a tax stamp, e-cigarette will also be included in the excise goods and the rate of excise duty will increase. The Hungarian Google Tax ensures that global companies engaged in economic activities in Hungary could not be exempted from the obligation to pay public charges or to pay taxes. The tool is used to enforce compliance with the advertising tax obligation. For example, an exponentially increasing fine of HUF 10 million can be calculated by an advertiser not registered as a taxpayer in Hungary, which, despite the tax authority's call, does not comply with his registration obligation. Now, please allow me to highlight, first of all, the reduction of the restaurant VAT from next year's plans. [[8.40]] A significant result and a very important government decision is that the VAT rate applicable to the distribution of food and non-alcoholic beverages in the dining room is reduced to 18 per cent from January 2017 and to 5 per cent from a year later. The representatives of the hospitality industry have been calling for this step for a long time. So far, in view of the productivity of the Hungarian economy, such a tax reduction could not be achieved, but now it can give a significant boost to the sector that is already understaffed. On the one hand, the measure provided an opportunity to remedy the shortage of labour, i.e. to keep existing colleagues by raising wages and to hire new well-trained workers. The average income here is about 30 percent below the national average. The facilitation also provides an opportunity to renovate their buildings in the industry, improve the technical state, upgrade their machines, and acquire them, which will allow for a more modern, comfortable and modern service for guests. This will also give rise to the self-sufficiency of applications for the sector. With the reduction of VAT, the use of raw materials can also increase in catering places, i.e. the measure will also indirectly have a traffic-enhancing effect in agriculture. Secondly, I would like to highlight the 100 billion HUF annual rent market, which will also have a beneficial and refreshing bleach effect. The measures are favourable to employers because they can also benefit from corporate tax relief if they support mobilisation, i.e. housing of their workers away from the workplace. Experts believe that if the planned changes increase mobilisation, they will have an impact on the rental market in the short and longer term, and could, of course, result in recovery. In addition to the bleaching of the rented housing market, the measure may encourage job choice in remote settlements. In the first two years of employment, the employer may pay 40 percent of the minimum wage as a tax-free housing allowance, in the next two years a quarter of the certified rent and in the fifth year 15 percent. This could amount to tens of thousands of HUF per month of support for each employee concerned. The third thing I would like to highlight is the reduction of construction VAT from 27 to 5 percent. This reduction can clearly and decisively boost the market for building new homes from the deadlock, and all by bleaching the construction activity. During the 20 years preceding the socialist crisis in 2008, the built new apartment number varied between 19 thousand and 55 thousand a year. The aim would be to reach the 20,000-piece level as soon as possible from the current 8-9 thousand-piece level to the number of new housing constructions. The lower VAT rate contributes to the whitening of the construction sector. If an invoice is made, there will be much more, and even compulsory written contracts would be used to meet the needs of the builders. It would thus indirectly contribute to accountability and increase construction quality. Dear House, I could give a long list of steps to help families, businesses and their positive impact in the tax law before us. But overall, I think that we have a well-founded tax package ahead of us, and that the economy, processes that have a positive impact on the rise in living standards, can continue with the 2017 tax laws, so I ask for your vote in favour. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-05-13-6	Thank you, Congressman. I now give the floor to Congressman Sándor Burány, the lead speaker of the Group of the Hungarian Socialist Party.
u2016-05-13-7	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, One of the most important issues in relation to tax laws is the tax philosophy, which, in the form of legislative proposals, is laid down in several laws on the Parliament's table, how it serves the country's development, how it serves to improve the competitiveness of businesses, how solidarity is it with those who are in a difficult situation in the country and who live badly, and how much, last but not least, they contribute to the revenue of the budget. Well, if we look at the whole of the legislative proposals, then first of all, we must state that the slogan that the Orbán government is the government of tax reductions is not true at all, and the opposite is true. If we look at all the tax categories and see what percentage of income the government collects from businesses in one year, this trend in recent years unfortunately shows that overall the tax burden on businesses and society is increasing rather than decreasing. This comes up almost every year with legislative proposals for current tax reductions and otherwise increases by Fidesz choosing a tax code or two, in which, supported by sound announcements, it announces the tax reduction, but it does not like to talk about the items submitted at the same time, which, by the way, are silently, insidiously, constantly increasing the tax burden on families. That is why the Faramuci situation is that, while you can always say to one or two tax groups that there will be a spectacular reduction, overall, the tax burden will increase, you have introduced dozens of tax types since 2010, and it is still about quietly, insidiously rising, not to a small extent, tax rates that have previously been more favourable than those contained in this bill. While Fidesz's lead speaker was talking about memorizing, let us complete this memorization, because in the same comment, the Member showed some memory loss when he spoke about socialist governance and gallantly forgot some of the items that would have refuted his claims. Let's start with personal income tax. You're talking about reducing personal income tax to 15 percent this year. Why don't you talk about how, at the beginning of your administration, minimum wage earners have increased their personal income tax burden from zero to 15 percent? [[Dr. János Harghitai: Very well!]] It's not reduced, it's increased! Why don't you talk about the fact that, after the change of regime in this country, the minimum wage was tax-free only under socialist governments? Every time there were right-wing governments, every time Viktor Orbán governed, it was almost one of the first measures to abolish the minimum wage tax and increase the tax on low incomes. That's what they did in 2010. Meanwhile, there was an intervention that was very right. I would also like the Member to explain in a comment what is the particular approach that makes Fidesz and his coalition partner simply hate minimum wage earners. Why is it that every time they go to government, the first thing they do - not the second, not the third, not the twelfth, almost the first - is to increase the burden of minimum wage earners? Why do you think it is a proper tax policy to increase the tax burden on those in the country who earn the least? Once someone has explained this, because you talk about ditchings, cuttings and family tax incentives, all the things that are dear to your heart, or that you think that through this you can demonstrate the great deeds of the government of tax cuts, but never talk about raising taxes, and you have never been able to justify in one word that over the last few years, every time you've been on the government, you have consistently, without exception, raised the tax of low earners. [[András Tállai: The income, too.]] Why, what philosophy is behind this, that the taxes of low-income earners must be increased, and we have not heard a single direct, meaningful sentence. Mr. Secretary of State says they're also increasing income. [[8.50]] But to be honest, Mr. Secretary, you should see how the net income has changed. Because if you look at the net income of minimum wage earners since 2010, it is the case, Mr Secretary, that if you look at the data of the Statistical Office and figure out whether the net minimum wage has preserved its real value compared to 2010 - what remains in your pocket, you know, is not what comes into the government as a tax - then what happened today is that the minimum wage is worth less in Hungary than it was in 2010 at the time of the change of government. Just because that tax increase, that 15 percent tax increase, could not be compensated over many years by the increase in gross wages. I am very sorry, Secretary of State and dear fellow Members of the Fidesz, but people are interested in how much is left in the pocket. Gross is kind to the government, gross wages, because they actually include taxes, but this is not nice to the employer, who pays these taxes, is not nice to the employee, who also pays these taxes. With regard to the minimum wage, in recent years, over the last six years, what has happened is that you have raised the labour costs of businesses, raised the tax burden of workers, resulting in today's minimum wage value being less than 2010. The only thing that has changed is that through the tax on minimum wage earners, there has been extra income in the state register. The budgetary balance is important, but when the government and Fidesz are trying to create it, it is not by raising taxes for those who are otherwise looking for the least in the country. Otherwise, this tax policy has sad consequences. One of the sad consequences of this tax policy is that the poverty of workers is growing in the country. In fact, what we mean by this is that people now live below the minimum living standards, where there is a earner in the family, where both adults earn and earn income in the family, are earning little, say, minimum wage, and they find that it is becoming less and less possible to make a living. The other sad consequence of this tax and wage policy is the increase in emigration, because there are many other motivations, of course, but there is a gross difference: wherever a Hungarian worker goes in Western Europe, he finds that if he has a job and is looking for a minimum wage according to the conditions there, he can make a living. Wherever a young couple or a middle-aged couple work in Hungary and earns a minimum wage, they find that this minimum wage cannot be lived or lived in Hungary. Because as long as the minimum wage in the West allows a modest apartment to be rented by a family, it is simply not possible to farm this out of the minimum wage in Hungary. This is the decisive reason why hundreds of thousands of families, hundreds of thousands of young people, have decided to try and live in the West, because they can live there even on low claims according to relative conditions until Hungary. The other sad and tragic result for those who remain at home is that workers' poverty is growing. Speaking of memory updates, because my Fidesz fellow Member mentioned family tax breaks as to why it decreased during a left-wing government. One thing my fellow Member has forgotten to add is that at the same time the family allowance has increased, just because it was a left-wing government. One of the most important elements of the difference in thinking between left-wing and right-wing governments is that when you talk about family, you always think about only a part of families. If you put it a little correctly, you will add that you are thinking almost exclusively of families where there is a work income, but if you are honest and read the statistics, then the fact is that you are helping primarily families where there is a high income in the family where tax breaks can be fully enforced. Looking at last year's family tax breaks, almost all sociological analyses have found that most of the support went to families with good income, high incomes. So, on the one hand, I was just talking about how you raise your taxes for minimum wage earners in a completely incomprehensible and criminal way, and on the other hand, in the case of family tax incentives, we find that most of these benefits are in the pockets of wealthy families. Family allowance: this is the important difference between left-wing and right-wing thinking that all families are important to left-wing politicians, my fellow Member, and not to you. The family allowance is granted to all families regardless of income, as long as tax incentives can be used only by families where there is work income, and unfortunately part of the family cannot be said in Hungary. If you look at the tax breaks and the family allowance system in the left-wing governments together, which could be called family support, then what we would certainly get is that these subsidies have reached a greater amount for a family, and certainly have reached a much greater amount for families with low incomes, for families with no incomes than under your governance. Speaking of memorizing, I had to tell you that. Let's look at the basic food part of the bill that has been tabled. On the one hand, we could rejoice at it, but it is good, let us not put it in such a conditional way, let us rejoice that at least Fidesz has accepted in part the earlier proposals of the Socialists and other opposition parties to reduce the VAT on basic foods. We have previously suggested that, once this is the case with low-income earners, as I have just said, let us look at all the opportunities that can be used to alleviate these burdens somewhat. One such tool is to reduce the VAT on basic foods. The bill is moving happily in this direction, and from this point of view we are pleased that at least partially, if not fully, our proposals have been followed. At the same time, we continue to urge the reduction to cover all basic foods, not just a few selected products. Because there is already a contradiction that in the case of milk, which is undoubtedly a basic food, you have reduced the VAT on fresh milk, but the VAT on the product that comes into the shops has been left unchanged. While it is a step forward that the competitiveness of producers will undoubtedly be improved, it does not make a substantial contribution to market prices as much as if the VAT on the final product had been reduced to the same extent as the Socialist Party had previously proposed and other opposition parties. As a matter of fact, they took a bold step forward, but that was a good part of the process. We're short on that. We still believe that the objective should not be to reduce VAT on all basic foods. In this regard, we have put forward proposals that have been drawn up several times. Have them read and study with a good heart. Further contradiction in the VAT reduction proposal, it was said in the comments that the VAT on food and non-alcoholic beverages will be reduced in catering in the dining room next year. It is completely incomprehensible why this VAT reduction is not extended to the cafeteria. How is it that the catering industry is pleased - this is not an idea of the devil, by the way - but they do not want to give this discount in terms of the dieting of students? This is completely incomprehensible. Why not extend the VAT reduction to foods that are delivered to different menus, are used within the children's meals, and could also mean a reduction in prices there, reducing the burden on those who are increasingly insufferable in Hungary. So here we have more ideas. You might want to take some courage. Do not stop halfway, where VAT reductions have been started, consistently carry this through to all products, and otherwise, if VAT is reduced in catering for a product, extend the same tax reductions to menu food. It should not affect excise duties for a few words. This will, of course, be discussed in detail on the next agenda. In this context, only that there are very serious tax increases hidden there, especially in the case of cigarettes. If applicable, the price of a pack of cigarettes may rise by up to 400 HUF. We will explain it in detail, but what has actually been submitted at excise duty for the price of fuels does not even meet the regulatory requirements, but this is in detail in the next item on the agenda. [[9.00]] It is an undeniable fact that there was, however, where you were very brave; although, frankly, when you read the newspaper, it is almost always possible to calculate what kind of bill the government subsequently favors society and Parliament. Over the past few weeks, we have read the news with great abundance, and the people close to the government, personally, have bought what castles in the country. So predictable, my fellow Members, they should not work. If you study for a few weeks - not necessarily with great pleasure - the news about how the Prime Minister will be rich again in person, whether family-related or elite, then, in a few weeks' time, there will be a bill that supports this with tax incentives, and not to a small extent. Not to a small extent, ladies and gentlemen. If a group of companies undertake a renovation of a castle, they can receive an amazing tax reduction of up to HUF 32 billion and a tax reduction. If a single enterprise, let's say, renovates dozens of castles in the country, mathematically, according to the bill you've presented, it could benefit from tax relief of up to $32 billion. Only here are the rates: the government expects an additional revenue of 20 billion for the increase in excise duty already mentioned, and for various items it can be shown that the VAT reduction, as Mr State Secretary said, amounts to around 55 billion in the budget. So, while you seem to leave 55 billion in VAT cuts so generously in society, almost the same amount will be paid in the form of tax relief to entrepreneurs who sign up for a castle renovation program in Hungary, a few weeks after you have read in the daily press that the Fidesz elite is buying castles again, again, again and again. You don't have to make such a direct connection. The only question now really arose was that Lőrinc Mészáros's company, István Garancsi's company, or someone else connected to the Prime Minister, will be the winner of this bill. You'd have to do it a little more coy than that. This is really unscrupulous, I mean it. You consider the renovation of the castle to be so important after some have acquired a castle in the Fidesz elite that they can grant tax reliefs to a single company that can be compared to the total annual intake or loss of revenue of other tax reductions. It's pretty amazing. I would recommend that to my fellow Member with Fidesz for consideration, because I know precisely that the vast majority of those sitting in the conservative horseshoe in the Parliament do not have a castle, the vast majority of them do not have a business that might be interested in mansion renovation. How long will you support with your votes that your own narrow elite enjoy the consequences of your vote in such an indecent manner? That's something to think about sooner or later. One way or another, they're co-conspirators indirectly, and this is the better case. I'd consider that if I were you. Ladies and Gentlemen, The tax package in front of us, as I have just mentioned, is not, on the whole, a slogan from the government of tax reductions, in contrast to that. Overall, the tax package before us leaves or increases the burden on low-income earners, while significantly reducing the burden on high-income earners. This political direction is unacceptable. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Dr. Vas Imre: Applause, applause! István Tukacs applauds.]]
u2016-05-13-8	Thank you, Congressman. I now give the floor to Mr János Harghitai, the lead speaker of the Group of the Christian Democratic People's Party. You have the floor.
u2016-05-13-9	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Dear Parliament, You really do smile when you listen to Mr Burány's speech, because he has to prove at all costs that he is black, and this seems to be very difficult in the case of this tax package. I was the one who rudely intervened when he described the position of the left-wing government in relation to the taxation of the minimum wage. He was able to do this in addition to my intervention because my fellow Member, Roland Mengyi, analysed the shift in tax philosophy that this government has made to your tax policy for a long time. I approve of this retrospect, which is what the Congressman has done, so I don't have to do this anymore, or I would have done it. Congressman, Mr Burány, it was clear to us that the tax policy that you have bankrupted the country around 2008 was the only way to save the country from total collapse with an IMF loan package in the European Union, so obviously that fiscal policy for economic policy could not be continued, because if we had continued to do so, we would still be under the excessive deficit procedure today, and the economy and budget of the country would be as impossible as you left behind. That's not what we're talking about, thank God. The heap of ruin you left to the Orbán government has already been partly, if you like, cleaned up - I'm sorry for these terms - and that is why we now have the opportunity to actually reduce taxes. You also list and criticize how we did this, say, in the case of VAT law, and when you do your summary in the 20th minute, you forget all of this, and you say that there is no tax reduction in substance, and what is happening is a benefit to the greats, and you try to justify it with a lot of renovations affecting the castles, which, I note, means monuments. This country is full of monuments, here the capital is full of monuments, if I go to Pécs, the county seat, I see a lot of monuments, and those who live or own these monuments, and simply walkers in the city are interested in renovating these very high-value monuments. Obviously, this can happen if the government already creates the conditions for encouraging these investments. You sharpen this for one or two people and a fidesz elite; it is obviously a degree of demagogism that is hard to believe with the country. You are right that many of us do not have a castle and probably will not, because we do not seek to buy castles, but I agree that the government also encourages the restoration of the country's monuments through tax policy instruments. Before I go to what I have to say, because this is, after all, the tax package that I have just presented, if I have been so rude and have intervened in relation to the minimum wage, let me ask you a few questions. Obviously, I have already said that we had to break up, in our view, with the tax policy that you have been pursuing, because simply speaking, that tax policy was built on a collective lie. What was your tax policy? Few people in Hungary paid personal income tax, who paid, and a very important part of them were incomes with minimum wage, i.e. they didn't pay anything. Those who could pay could also manipulate the world of the economy and announce their people to minimum wage and possibly pay them in their pockets. The whole country has been playing this collective lie, and you know it, and this collective lie has led to the country being ruined. We said to pay public burdens, if anyone can do that, they have to do so, because it means rank, the citizen who pays public burdens. Everyone should pay public burdens, the minimum wage should pay public burdens only to the extent that the minimum wage is equal to the minimum wage, and the earner should pay public costs to the extent that his income is well earned. [[9.10]] This philosophical shift, which is no longer based on lies - otherwise I could lead to the constitutional foundation here for you, but I do not have to, because you know the rules of the Constitution in this regard - we approve. By the way, there is no economic policy expert in your environment who would criticize that. As a Member here in Parliament, you do it demagogically, but in fact you know that this philosophical change we have made here is right. And, of course, as the Secretary of State mentioned to you, when you spoke about this, we raised the minimum wage significantly. If the civilian government is taking this country, it is typical of this country to raise the minimum wage to a much greater extent than you have done. But let us finally get to this tax package, because I think that the statement that we are saying is that this cycle probably has the most important tax law before us is justified in many respects, which we have already said in the context of the budget. The result of a consistent economic policy and fiscal policy is that the country is now in a position to make certain facilitations in the area of tax laws, and this is not beneficial to the few or the Fidesz elite, which is beneficial to everyone. This is the first, I think, what we need to say, and that is still true - I could quote economic papers here, I collected - if you are talking about huge tax increases in the tax package. Obviously, these huge tax increases cannot be found in this, but it is true that very significant tax reliefs will be encountered in 2017 by all who live in this country. I would like to repeat the pillars that the Secretary of State has highlighted and, if you like, dressed up this tax package, because I think it is important that this tax package, which is here before us, is on the one hand about tax cuts and then I will make it clear; it is about administrative facilitations that put businesses in a significantly favourable position; it is also about support for businesses, which is very important because we have talked about this for a long time, but we have not been able to achieve results, and it is also about the whitening of the economy. Then I'll start with this, because this can be done relatively briefly. We have always received the criticism from you, opposition representatives, or when you were in government, then we have practically read on your head that it is a simple course to raise taxes and generate budgetary revenues, but we are trying to collect taxes that we have not been able to collect before, and otherwise it is a distortion of competition if we do not collect these taxes. If we are successful here, we do not need to increase taxes, because simply we produce budgetary revenues with the efficiency of taxation. It is not possible to go without saying that the Orbán government has done this effectively. I am referring here to the electronic freight system, which has produced a great deal of results and to the cash register system. This will continue in the coming period, and even an online billing system will be introduced, and further tax efficiency will be expected from it. This is therefore an area where the NAV and the government have been operating extremely successfully in recent years, and this is likely to continue in the 2017 tax year. So we collect taxes that have to be paid, so we don't have to charge extra taxes on those who have paid fair taxes. Obviously, it is the most important part of the tax package and, for me, the most important part of the Christian Democratic Member, that concerns families, concerns all families, and that is the VAT relief. Even when we introduced the first VAT relief and reduced the VAT on pigmeat from 27 per cent to 5 per cent, we indicated that you opposition representatives also urged us to extend this to additional products. At the same time, the government indicated that it would carry out such investigations and that it would create opportunities for this to happen to other products. In 2017, the government extended the tax reduction to other essential foods, i.e. milk and poultry meat, and we welcome this. [[For signal:]] I'm sorry, I have to mention the egg, because it's a serious factor in household consumption. We can obviously endorse tax reliefs for the Internet, and the Secretary of State also mentioned numbers. These tax reliefs can result in savings of 12-20 thousand forints for a pensioner family, saving of 30-35 thousand forints for a large family, and the greatest facilitations affect the two children, because, in addition to the tax reductions provided by the VAT law, they are also significantly affected by the tax relief that can be applied in their personal income tax. Thus, in the case of a family with two children, this also means tax savings of 80-85 thousand forints. [[István Tukacs: Say a hundred!]] Overall, the budget for the amendment of the VAT Act, i.e. for the expansion of VAT of 5%, will give up some HUF 55 billion in revenue, leaving this 55 billion in the family. In the case of a tax credit involving the two children mentioned above, the state budget will give up HUF 15 billion, and the families concerned will obviously get richer. I have not seen such tax reliefs in tax law, which concerns families, so it is obviously only eligible and welcome. As a rural representative, I also think it is important that the current government should also use its tax instruments to mobilise the workforce. We have urged this many times, and we will see it here in this tax law. We know the country well, there are now, I can say, prosperous, well-functioning regions of the country: Budapest and its surroundings are obviously like this, or the region of Fehérvár, the region of Győr, so these are areas with a serious industrial culture and a lot of businesses. The labour force moves in this direction from the more underdeveloped regions of the country, it migrates, and the government helps with tax policy in 2017. We couldn't imagine when it would happen that the worker who commutes would be able to pay more than nine forints instead of a kilometer. Now you can do this, because the government has significantly increased this item, and instead of 9 forints, it pays 15 forints per kilometer. [[István Tukacs: You don't live in this world, John! That's not how it works!]] Tax relief in working quarters is important. I'm a baranya congressman. Unfortunately, our county seat is not known for its inclusion in the circle I've just classified, where, let's say, a strong and developed economy would operate. The elite part of the Baranya workforce, well-trained part of it, travels to the neighbourhood of Budapest or the region of Fehérvár or Győr, but Pécs, with its weak economy, still knows the second largest agglomeration of the country, from which the labour force migrates from even less developed areas of Baranya and small settlements to the city. I recently read an article listing 128 such settlements. So these facilitations that encourage labour mobility are obviously an advantage for these people, so these steps, which are very important in this law, I also welcome them. Tax relief for businesses will obviously increase the competitiveness of businesses in the coming period. [[9.20]] In the past, many criticisms have been given to our decisions - which, of course, have been a very important part of our change in tax philosophy - that we have temporarily imposed separate taxes on sectors that were less taxed and have been significantly enriched during the crisis period, such as the banking sector. It continues the practice that the government will retire here, with a total of HUF 25 billion in the case of bank taxation. After that, in 2017 we expect the lending practices of the banks to be enhanced. Secretary of State told me about the Career Bridge program. Again, this is the issue of labour mobility. The government has a strong ambition to reduce bureaucracy, which can be welcomed as an objective, but this state bureaucracy - and when I use that word, I speak of it in the most positive sense - should also be placed in other areas of the economy. The incentive measures that people who employ public employees or employees from the public sector benefit from contributions are also welcome, and this will obviously help this programme to succeed. During the negotiation of the 2017 Finance Act, we also talked about the importance of boosting internal consumption, and how domestic demand and the increase in internal consumption contribute to the increase in GDP in the country, and in this context we talk about the increasing wage outflow that is a thank-you God, which characterizes these economic years. In the context of this law, an item should be mentioned here, which concerns the employees of the NAV, since the Career Bridge programme is also launched for the NAV. In addition to other state officials, the income of NAV workers could increase by 50 percent in three steps, with the conversion of the bonus scheme. This is also an item that affects 20-30,000 people, as it is a huge system and the NAV workers make a substantial contribution to achieving budget revenues. That's all I wanted to say very briefly to you. Demagogic remarks can, of course, be made, and it is natural for me that opposition representatives will do so if I speak more culturally, then I say that it is natural for them to criticize the best tax law. I think that the government, by presenting this tax package, could have decided to take spectacular steps. This will affect many people, and it will even affect all consumers in this country, bringing relief to everyone. We were able to do this because the Hungarian economy is now giving us the opportunity to do so. The Hungarian economy now offers this opportunity because the Orbán government has pursued a consistent economic policy for many years, with the result, which is recognised by the outside world, which will be recognised by the rating agencies sooner or later. And if the voice of these will be here in Parliament, then Mr Burány will speak even more modestly when he criticizes the civil government's tax laws and economic achievements, and he will think even further back to the time when they wanted to govern in good intentions, but that was very wrong. I am glad that it is a past that we will always return to, of course, but thank God, we have exceeded this period, including such consistent economic policy achievements. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-05-13-10	Thank you very much, Congressman. I now give the floor to Congressman György Szilágyi, the lead speaker of the Jobbik Group.
u2016-05-13-11	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Let me have a response first. János Harghitai said that the tax relief for the renovation of castles and other monuments serves to protect and organize monuments. The question is whether the preservation of foreign Hungarian memories is not so important to you, because there are many monuments in the divided parts of the country as well. However, if we look at the budget that has been submitted, I think that this is a very important question that only a very serious amount of $15 million could be entered. So, against the tax discount of 30 billion, there are 15 million to protect the memories of the whole of the torn areas. If we add that the Tom Lantos Institute has received 120 million as your support, then we feel this matter is even more outrageous, but it was just a response. Ladies and gentlemen, I was pleased to read the bill prepared by the Ministry of National Economy and tabled by the Minister, as the direction of the changes that reflected it was familiar to me. VAT reduction, reduction of administrative burden, more effective action against VAT fraud and abuses have long been included in the Jobbik Hungary Movement programme, so I was pleased that the government had finally heard the voice of common sense and wanted to make changes in the tax system that could truly serve the interests of Hungarian people and make our country more livable. Unfortunately, however, the joy was also mixed with little wormwood, especially because a large part of the amendments were of a nature that could have been done a long time ago. Just think of the unnecessary administration currently affecting family tax relief recipients, or of the anomaly that the smallest taxpayers, the diculties, also paid taxes on subsidies. Many of these unnecessary and unworthy provisions are being changed in the right direction by the bill, which is definitely an effort to be supported. However, there are a number of aspects of the proposal which suggest that preparatory materials have not taken up simplification efforts in the preparation of the proposal. Consider some examples. According to the bill, the data content of primary producers' registers will be increased from one data set out in the current law to 22 data. This cannot be seen as a reduction in administrative burdens with the greatest goodwill. Currently, the scope of recorded data is regulated by a government decree, which is now regulated by law. This reason is not mentioned in the explanatory memorandum; such a matter must not be regulated at the level of law. The other is the case of online cash registers. Online cash registers and online invoicing are also not in the interests of SMEs. Although it is very striking that these measures are needed to whiteen the economy, I believe online invoicing is just another possibility for a fairly expensive public investment that will be won by friends with or without uncontrollable procurement and delivered far above market prices. Wide-ranging tax avoidance can be suppressed by the most effective high-level example; of course, not by the example that Andy Vajna's casinos do not need an online cash register, just because he is a friend of Viktor Orbán, the hairdresser and the taxi driver who is not his friend, but he needs it. This is a rather strange contradiction in a plant with huge traffic, such as the casino, where money laundering can be created; however, you do not need an online cash register, you do not think about it, despite the opposition's constant awareness of this. The second is that the expected brutal tax increase in tobacco products will only serve to strengthen the black economy. The shocks on the tobacco market in previous years have clearly shown that in this market, this type of rough intervention increases the illegal circulation of products in a similar proportion. This will certainly not serve the whitening of the economy and will have the opposite effect. We told them when they gave their buddies the tramps that the black economy was gonna grow, but they didn't believe us. We're gonna tell you right now, and you're not gonna believe it now, and unfortunately, we're gonna be right. The proposals for VAT reductions are also under doubt. The proposal reduces the VAT on some basic foods, which is commendable. Why, though, does it not reduce the VAT on all basic foods to an acceptable level that really makes it easier for final consumers, i.e. the population? [[9.30]] It is absolutely a step to be supported that new basic foods are placed in a reduced, 5-percent circle. Jobbik believes, however, and this has been discussed on several occasions, and our corresponding proposals were also on the House's table, that Hungary should not be running after its neighbours, but instead, by taking a pioneering role, the VAT rate for all basic food should be classified as cheap as possible, as 5 percent. It's embarrassing and not cute that Romania is the example to follow. Our eastern neighbor reduced the VAT rate for basic foods to 9 percent, and the normal key was down from 24 to 20 percent. Results? The sales volume of food was 28 and sales of non-food were 16 and even fuel sales increased by 10 percent. Overall, retail sales increased by 19 percent. Wouldn't you, fellow Members of the Fidesz, like to hear such figures for Hungary? 'Cause we, the good guys, would love to. It should be mentioned here that the Fidesz government's VAT reduction proposal only affects 6-7 percent of the consumer basket, which is more than zero, but the reduction rate is not even as high as a reduction in the normal tax rate by a single percentage. It should also be noted that market disturbances in food and agricultural products have in almost all cases been linked to dumping caused by imports of products. Whether it's food oil, eggs, milk or sugar. These questionable imports were sold without paying VAT. In doing so, he gains undue profits and thus destroys domestic producers and honest distributors. Against these phenomena, VAT reduction is only one tool, although it is undoubtedly an important tool. Only consistent and rigorous monitoring can detect fraud of industrial size, and only inevitable penalties established on the basis of these checks can stop it. We should strictly enforce the laws, investigate these cases, and impose very serious penalties. These do not currently work in Hungary. At present, neither the frequency of checks nor the severity of the legal consequences applied are sufficient to deter those who walk unfairly. Removing the current lack of consequences would be a priority. If it were obvious to everyone that controls could not be avoided and that checks were carried out by professionals who knew what they were doing, then everyone would certainly consider twice whether to try any illegal solutions. Unfortunately, however, the deterioration of the personnel of the NAV, the expulsion of old professionals, precludes the idealized state that I have outlined. And then let's see what the Fidesz government is doing to shorten the Hungarian families, however they say they are not. excise duty will be a very important issue, won't it? I know that the next item on the agenda will be the same. This year, HUF 952 billion of revenue is included in the budget of this tax. However, next year's budget amounts to 1030 billion. The increase, which, of course, Hungarian taxpayers and, ultimately, families have to stand, is more than HUF 77 billion. Or, let's just say, from an infant to an old man, everyone has to take on 7,700 extra burdens. This raises 30,000 extra burdens for a family of four next year. This is a very important question, but let's see how this extra burden is going to work. The specific tax on cigarettes increases by more than 6 per cent and by almost 9 per cent, and the excise duty on cut tobacco also increases by almost 9 per cent. But we cannot agree on the proposal to increase the excise duty on fuel. Motion 74. §a also contains versions A and B. Obviously, both can't be accepted at the same time, probably due to the usual haste of a codification error. So we don't know what or the public when the raise will take place. When the world price for oil falls below $40 or $50? It doesn't matter, because last night, for example, the price of Brent crude oil was around $47. Thus, the conditions for the Fidesz tax increase already exist for the A variant, which means that the petrol tax increases by 5 forints per litre, the fuel oil and diesel tax increases by 10 forints per litre. Dear fellow Members of the Fidesz Group, You are aware that products whose VAT reductions are advertised with a loud word must be transported from the producer to the business. Will excise duty not appear in product transport costs? Yes, you can. Unfortunately, I must say, what I said at the beginning of my speech, what you give with one hand, is lost with the other. Unfortunately, there is a risk that the negative impact resulting from the increase in excise duty will have a full effect on the benefits of the VAT reduction. Thus, after lowering the VAT, Hungarian families do not experience a price decrease, but even a price increase can be brought about by an adverse oil price. No dancing, no price cuts. Then there's the question of the Internet VAT. The reduction of Internet VAT is once again a step in the right direction, but at the same time it is timid. First of all, EU Directive 2006/112/EC, the so-called VAT Directive, is still in force, which provides for a tax rate for which goods and services can be classified as preferential VAT. Internet services do not belong here at this time. We know that press reports have already announced that under the new, upcoming directive, EU Member States would be given greater freedom to apply the discount rate. We also believe that the Fidesz government has such non-public information that I do not say inside information... By the way. Speaking of inside information, I would like to draw the attention of my fellow Members, pro-government and other fellow Members, to the fact that they still have no statement as to whether they had such inside information in the Quaestor case and whether they may have bought out money before Quaestor's fall. But going back to these inside information that you're going to get away with cutting off the Internet's preferential VAT classification, that's what we're talking about. We say, however, that if it's goose, it should be fat. Jobbik would reduce the VAT on the Internet to not 18 percent, but 5 percent. According to Minister János Lázár, the reduction to 18% causes revenue losses of HUF 13-15 billion. Our experts calculated that the reduction to 5 percent would cost an additional HUF 19-22 billion. It's just as much as it's meant to be for the propaganda department of Antal Fidesz Rogán. For this reason, my fellow Member, Mr President, initiated the VAT rate for the Internet service to be 5 percent and to eliminate the completely unnecessary propagandaistry in order to maintain budgetary balance. Fidesz self-polishing is not needed, but there is an urgent need for further expansion of the range of Internet users. Then there was the question of advertising tax, the so-called Google tax. Well, I'd like to ask you guys how you're gonna do that. How are you going to make Google or Facebook pay you anything? I am only asking this based on experience, since the law on online casinos has been in place for several years. How many big, market-leading elite companies have paid you so far? How many of these larger companies have been able to conclude contracts or contracts with the Hungarian state, and how many of these large companies have you managed to block? 'Cause in my opinion, none. The most interesting, to say, innovative innovation of the bill is the introduction of a system of tax incentives for the renovation of monuments. It is proposed that the cost of renovation can be deducted from the corporate tax base up to HUF 31 billion. This is a huge amount that not only very few will be able to live with, potential recipients are likely to become large companies from which we can expect greater social responsibility. However, it is suspected that such large companies are generally multinational companies which, through their ownership structure, have already developed their own tax optimisation mechanism. So it is unlikely that they will take advantage of this opportunity in large numbers. Who, then, can this measure serve? Unfortunately, we also have to think that they want to provide a positive opportunity again for those Hungarian wonder enterprises who have gained fabulous revenue and profit from public orders, out of nowhere as a comet. These companies, which are favored by the current government, are the oligarchs who have not been able to compete in the market before, but, with the help of the prime minister, without real competition, have spectacularly multiplied their wealth. [[9.40]] They're the ones who can buy castles now. They are the ones who can make a large estate available to the one - eyed dog Narcissus. [[Defiance from the Jobbik benches.]] They are the ones who will play a very important role in this tax relief. The tax package before us could be described as Fidesz giving with one hand and marrying with the other. First, he advertises it loudly with his propagandaistry, and tries to keep the latter quiet, abusing his media presence and sweeping it under the carpet like every fidesz scandal. Let us not be unfair, the package contains timid, but moving in the right direction, which are good steps towards facilitating the lives of Hungarian families. It's a real shame that what the government would do with their right foot would be tripped with their left. So there are good intentions in the next year's tax package, but after six years of governance, Hungarian society wants more and rightly. The tax increases that are intended to be hidden are totally unacceptable and the eligible steps are limited. Overall, many minor changes do not fundamentally change the logic of the tax system. A small extension of the benefits and further details of the arrangements do not affect the direction of a transparent and enforceable tax system. A wise politician once said that the tax system should be so simple that personal income tax returns can fit on a beer mat. Well, the same wise politician also said that we are observing his actions, not his words, based on his actions. Sadly, actions do not show that they sincerely strive to follow his words. Thank you so much for listening. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2016-05-13-12	Thank you very much, Congressman. I now give the floor to Mrs Erzsébet Schmuck, the lead speaker of the LMP Group.
u2016-05-13-13	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, I would first like to respond to the technical side of the tax laws before us. We see that, beyond intelligent countries, the budget is not being negotiated in spring, when we have no idea of the processes of a given year, the tax laws, the budget and the salad law that underpins it will be discussed for a longer period of time, in several circles, reflecting on each other, so that what is accepted by one can be incorporated into the other. This is not the case in Hungary today. Even if we amend tax laws, they cannot appear in the budget, and even in the budget, the amendment of tax revenues is irregular according to the new House Rule. That's absurd. Two things are certainly indicated: one is that the budget will reflect false figures, while the other is that decisions are not born here in Parliament, even though we are arguing about certain laws. The government is no longer trying to hide that only - sorry for that - push-button representatives are sitting in the pro-government benches, because there is no way to make real changes. As for the content of the law, first of all, let's see what the government says. This year's communication panel says it's a budget for tax cuts. A reduction of HUF 80 billion in a budget of 17 300 billion is not a tax reduction, it is not even half a percent. You wrote in the general justification of the package of laws that an average of 15-20 thousand forints for a retired couple, 30-35 thousand forints for large family members and 80-85,000 forints for two children may be left next year to increase the planned VAT reduction and the personal income tax reduction. Let us count a little, fellow Members. This means: 600-800 forints per person for a retired couple, but if you add less than 1 per cent of your average retirement pension to this, the maximum is 2 thousand forints for them, for a large family, if only children are counted, it means 800-900 forints per month per child and 2500 forints per month for two children. Do you know what that's enough for? A few kilos of bread and a few liters of milk can be bought each month, and with only a few chocolates, there is no guarantee that it will not last. We can safely say that this is a tax reduction of almost zero for deprived people, families at the VAT of the most important basic foods, and a small increase in the distorted child discount. While the income of a simple family can increase by 1-2 thousand HUF per month, a state leader can increase by millions. But they deserve it, because in their case, the economy is doing well, at least in your opinion, but when we ask you to raise wages for low-income earners, that's all there is to economic growth. With a slight exaggeration, we can also say that the government will spend more on advertising tax reductions than on tax cuts themselves. The government talks about tax cuts by taking half of a employee's total wage cost today. One forint for each wage is to be paid into the state register. LMP, on the other hand, would reduce the burden on labour with a multi-key tax for 90 percent of people from work. One of the root causes of these problems is that the government insists on a single-key tax for the rich, which would immediately be converted into a multi-key tax by the LMP, so that the net of the average wage earners can finally grow and the distribution will be fairer. The minimum wage would be tax-free in our intention, and the individual income bands would be taxed at 0, 12, 24 per cent - up to 0 per cent, up to an average wage of 12 per cent and above 24 per cent. This increase in wages is also necessary because more people could be held in Hungary, labour shortages would be reduced and employment would increase. The wage increase today is the real investment. That is why we have again tabled an amendment to the introduction of a fair, multi-key tax system. Speaking of concrete measures, the price of basic foods must first be discussed. It is important both for the low earners and for the whitening of the economy that the basic needs articles without which we cannot live are not subject to a high tax. Basic food is a preferential area in most countries and specifically in European countries. We have also been demanding for a long time in Hungary, not only the lower VAT level. The government took a few daring steps in this direction, first with pork, as friendly oligarchs were now interested in chicken meat, eggs and raw milk. However, this is far from enough. Basic food should be reduced much more widely in order to have a real impact. The LMP would also reduce the VAT on fresh vegetables, fruits, bread, bakery products, fresh and UHT milk, flour, rice, raw meats, food oil, freshwater fish. In addition to healthy nutrition, this would encourage the consumption of domestic products, help small domestic producers while bleaching the market. In addition, according to the LMP, it would also be necessary to reduce the VAT on public transport and energy efficiency building renovations, as we have repeatedly stated in our employee poverty package. In addition, a HUF 5 000 increase in the child discount is also worth mentioning. As early as the introduction, we stressed that the distribution of the child benefit was wrong. After the second child, the discount should have been set higher, even because the birth of the second child is not the third, but the main issue with families. It is also true that family tax relief is not the best tool to facilitate it; but if you are already on this path, it would be better to do it at least somewhat professionally. It is an interesting change, and we have heard about it several times today, the deductibility of the cost of historic renovations from the corporate tax base. [[9.50]] Of course, all the benefits to preserve monuments should be supported, although the permanent destruction of the institution system of historic protection clearly raises doubts whether the buildings being renovated will remain monuments afterwards. In any case, it is an interesting coincidence that they decide on such a discount just when the Prime Minister's son-in-law bought a castle and is about to renovate it. "It must be a coincidence," you say, "like so many other laws of private interest, which have been voted without thought in the last six years, from the Traffic Act to the advertising tax to the encryption of MNB's data. In addition, there are some positive, but not too large, changes, such as restaurant meals and a reduction in the VAT on the Internet, and a smaller increase in the benefit of going to work. They also extend the scope of online cash registers - not casinos, where the most could be caught, because close-ups run the business. All of this draws up a very modest package, which, as I mentioned, would be such an exaggeration to call the budget for the tax reduction in 2017 that it is almost ridiculous. A real tax reduction budget would at least respond to the distorted tax system of recent years, the unacceptable redistribution which, according to researchers of the Századvég, has allocated 500 billion a year to the rich, while the lower seven income tenths have been hit by 134 billion in withdrawal. The loss of income would be offset by taxes on all in general, i.e. again by the poor. What is not in these tax laws is, therefore, an easing of the minimum wage and the average wage, a wage increase and a reduction in contributions, a significant relief for small businesses. The result is the strengthening of previous negative processes, poverty, migration, the elimination of the countryside, lack of expertise, congestion. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of Jobbik and MSZP.]]
u2016-05-13-14	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. Now the first independent congressman to apply may speak. [[There's no candidate.]] I don't see any contact. I don't see a candidate for a two-minute speech. Dear Parliament, Then there will be further speeches by its representatives. First I give the floor to the Members who have applied in advance, first I give the floor to Mrs Mónika Dunai, from the Fidesz Group.
u2016-05-13-15	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, 2017 will also be the year of home creation. This is reflected and reflected and indeed reflected in the proposed budget proposal for 2017 and the proposal for a law on tax laws that we are discussing. In our view, the existence of our own home is one of the most important prerequisites for civil setting up, so next year's budget will use HUF 211 billion to support the home creation of Hungarian families. The most important elements of this are the family home creation discount that can be used to buy new and used apartments, i.e. popularly known as CSOK, the state-supported preferential loan and the VAT reduction. The government will continue to support house savings, and in 2017 national home-building communities will be in operation, with an additional HUF 3 million in support of home creation in a 10-year perspective. One of our main objectives is to support families and children. For the government, the first and most important, as for the Fidesz and KDNP groups, is the support of children. The first and most important, therefore, is the child. All laws, all measures from here, must come from the child. All measures and all legislative proposals should reflect this approach. This approach can be seen not only in the 2017 budget, but also in the tax laws currently under discussion. Our important goal is that all Hungarians, people living on all wages and salaries, can get their own home faster and cheaper if possible. We expect the new home-building programme to build more new homes to increase the economy and create more jobs when the economy grows. At the same time, we are creating the opportunity that is most important in families: families can have children if parents are able to be safe, if they have a job, and if they have their own home, there is a roof over their heads. That's what we want to help you with. We want to ensure that families get their own home at affordable prices, if possible. CSOK is therefore also good for the Hungarian economy, as it creates jobs and contributes to the growth of the economy. The main elements of the home creation programme are the reduction of the housing tax, the non-refundable family home-building discount and the loan of HUF 10 million in the context of the three children. Ladies and gentlemen, A lot of people criticized that fact - and that, I admit, is quite incomprehensible to me when some political forces criticize it - to reduce the tax on housing. He also criticizes the fact that it is reduced to 5 percent. I suppose this is to remain faithful to their previous decisions; yes, the left when the first Orbán government's family support system was abolished, then [[Interjection from the lines of the MSZP: What are you talking about?]] one of its most important decisions was to double the VAT on housing. At that time, it was increased from 12 percent to more than 25%. The CSOK, the family tax system, the ged extra, the tax cuts, the wage increases, the measures taken for mothers will without exception improve the situation of families and increase the desire to have children. The reception of the home creation programme is very positive. More than four fifths of the population support home-building measures. Among people under 40, there is 95 percent support for VAT reductions. The search for the program is expected in the second half of the year, and in 2017 and 2018, when the impact of CSOK can already be significant on the housing market. We hope that the housing supply will expand quickly enough, and families will also make one of the most important decisions in their lives about creating a new home. It is not a small decision when the family decides where, when, under what conditions they can get their own home. This has been an almost unattainable dream for the past decades, we know that. Now, I think that with a maximum of HUF 10 million in non-refundable CSOK support, preferential long-term loans and other home-building opportunities, including VAT reductions, this has come close to being available to all young families. The situation of families with two children will be even more favourable next year, as the amount remaining in the family budget will increase even further due to the increase in the child benefit of personal income tax. With more than 350,000 families, we leave 15 billion forints. Next year, the program started this year, the monthly relief for parents with two children, will increase by another HUF 5000 to HUF 30,000. It is worth stressing that these are monthly amounts, i.e. in a family with two children, the sum per child will be HUF 15,000 per month, which you do not have to pay into the state budget, or you do not have to pay taxes after that. This is 30 thousand HUF per month net for the two children. This means that the four-member families with two children leave between 80 and 85 thousand forints together next year with a reduction in public burdens. About one third of this is reduced by VAT on individual goods and services and two thirds by increasing the child discount. [[10.00]] Ladies and gentlemen, We have introduced the family tax system to counterbalance, halt and increase the negative demographic trends in our country. Thanks to these, in the last four years around HUF 800 billion remained in the pockets of Hungarian families. Last year, 900,000 parents validated these preferences. The discount for two children in four years, we know, will double in 2017, as I mentioned forints 15 thousand per child, HUF 17 500 per month in 2018 and HUF 20 thousand per child tax allowance for families with two children in 2019, i.e. net income of HUF 40,000 per month for families, which they do not have to enforce in taxes. With the use of family tax relief, some 1.1 million people have lost their taxes in recent years, including more than 300 thousand people have not had to pay taxes at all, as we have also enabled those with the lowest income, and we have made these benefits available. [[President Tamás Sneider, Vice-President of the National Assembly.]] From 2014, no family benefit could be levied on individual contributions, i.e. their gross salary for families with the lowest income was also their net salary, i.e. they did not have to pay taxes, because with the family tax discount they could also enforce what I said from the contributions. From 2015 onwards, the tax payable for the first married couple can be reduced by HUF 5 000 per month for 24 months, i.e. for two years. This benefit will also remain in next year's tax laws. Ladies and gentlemen, On the basis of the 2017 budget before the Parliament and the tax laws, we expect a financially stable year 2017, which is successful for the lives of the Hungarian people. Our ambition is that, like this year, everyone can move forward next year, move forward in their work, move forward in terms of incomes, move forward in their own home, and hope that they will also move forward through the giving of their own family. It will be the first year since 2010, when, besides strengthening the economy, the state does not have to repay any more loans, so we will also remove additional burdens from the shoulders of families and Hungarian people. This will provide cover that will allow us to achieve more and more benefits, VAT reductions and family support increases. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to ask you to support the tax laws currently under discussion, since they benefit and benefit the Hungarian people. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-05-13-16	Welcome, fellow Members. I give the floor to Congressman István Tukacs.
u2016-05-13-17	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear House, First, I would like to be critical of this rather interesting state of affairs, too, that the Parliament will begin to negotiate the budget and then continue for a few days after that by negotiating the underlying laws, tax laws. I still remember the times when this happened when, given the seriousness of the situation and the seriousness of the subject matter, the House first negotiated the underlying laws, negotiated the tax laws, adopted them, so that it was possible to know from what position the budget started and then began to negotiate a budget. [[A statement from the Fidesz: It's pointless!]] That makes a lot of sense, but let's give it a nod, my honourable fellow Member. There is not much logic to make this negotiation completely frivolous, to begin negotiating the budget and related laws in such a mess, unthankful manner. This highlights what my fellow Member Schmuck has already said, namely that Parliament has no meaningful influence on these matters. No! Why, though, it is necessary to talk about what this budget, tax laws, the foundations contain, at least to get to the ears that are more open not only to government propaganda. I listened with interest to my fellow Member, Harghitai, to the support of representatives of a non-existent party with KDNP monogram, which no longer exists, since their spine was broken by the fact that their only case, the shop closure on Sunday, had to be swallowed. [[Noise in the ranks of the governing parties.]] Who, unlike his party's vocation, was trying to prove that it was not a good idea for a tax system to try to put the weakest in a better position. Sándor Burány, head speaker of the MSZP, spoke long about the situation in which the taking of the tax credit put the lowest earners, and this income position could not be regained in the current tax structure. In English: when we talk about personal income tax, we see again that Fidesz and KDNP are trying to put better people in a better position, ignoring those who are more difficult. We believe that in this tax system, in the personal income tax sector, there would be plenty of opportunities to bring back all the benefits that help low-income people. I would also like to point out that the MSZP has been talking for a long time about reducing VAT on basic foods. We think that with 27 percent VAT, we should not be leading in the European Union. 27 percent is a scandal in itself, but the fact that you are trying to deal with some acute market problems by reducing VAT is this kind of milk - because it's about people, because the problem is on their fingernails - but it doesn't change the cost of living. Therefore, a real reduction in food VAT would be not only to tackle or try to deal with sudden problems, but also to put the most thoughtful and thoughtful families in a slightly better position by raising the VAT on basic foods, more bravely and not as you are doing now. The government propaganda machine says that this budget is, among other things, a budget for home creation. In the context of the negotiation of tax laws, I would like to link it with the fact that you consider it a result that if the costs of going to work, the conditions of taxation are somewhat facilitated. It's a philosophical question. The problem is that the labour force and families together in Hungary are not mobile enough. So we should not be talking about whether he can go from Szabolcs to Győr, Tata, Budapest, to the torn Ladán on Monday on the M3 by rolling the man who is forced to earn a living 200-300 kilometers away, but the question is whether he can go with the family, since you are so family friends, together. Compared to this, along with this tax reduction, which concerns going to work, the CSOK preserves the status of staying in one place, and if you have to go, leave your family there, and that's not good. [[10.10]] With regard to the CSOK, we have said a thousand times that if there is no housing and housing support program, then this preserved condition is bad for everyone. It's bad for a guy who leaves his family on Monday, leaves, goes back on Friday, Saturday, bad for a guy who has to stay there, because he's tied to a clot, and he can't go if he has to, if there's better job opportunities there. It is bad for everyone, and I think that you are unwilling to give up this philosophy because you fell in love with the program called NOK and CSOK, which is also very few. When I read the draft law, I had a sense of déjà vu that we should expand the online register system and use it to whiten and bring more taxes into the budget. Well, then you should be a little braver. It'd be nice to do that in casinos. I had a feeling of déjà vu, because now, in this draft, there is yet again such a tailor-made legislation, in Hungarian: the legislation is again for someone, which has already been referred to before me. He also told someone when, not long ago, we didn't have to pay the tax on casinos' concessions, and we sat at a legislative committee meeting, and the government representative stared at us in a trash can when we asked him why he didn't know. Of course he didn't know it was none of his business. And now, by reducing the tax on historic renovations, it's just this déjà vu that comes up again, but please, who's this for? Is this a real problem in Hungary today? They would renovate monuments with a multitude of businesses, but is it just that they are hindered by the fact that they have to pay a lot of taxes? No, I didn't. Again, we are looking at someone talking about this, and we should put someone in a lighter position again, and I feel that this is not compatible with the dignity of a parliament and that we are negotiating serious tax laws and budgets here. Finally, I would like to mention excise duties. I know it is not the subject of this proposal, but it should not only be considered how a excise duty increase appears on the side of fuels in the price of products, because it is necessary to deliver, but also - I think a few days' survey - that in rural areas there are predominantly more people using cars than in large cities and Budapest. It's not surprising, of course, that they have to reach somewhere, they drive a heavier car. In English, this situation on the tax side will hit people who are forced to drive, get in a car, go shopping, go to work, drive children, because they have no other solution. There's no public transport that can solve this. Therefore, I also think that, in addition to many gestures, it would be good to consider who is hurting when they do not take advantage of the fact that the price of fuels is falling on the world market, but they are putting a shovel on it now because they are trying to make available income there, along with all kinds of government good-service tax measures. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, The Hungarian Socialist Party cannot accept this proposal because of the philosophy of their tax policy, and not only the present proposal, honourable members of the government, but also the process in which you think about tax. Thank you for listening. Thank you for the floor, Mr President.
u2016-05-13-18	On a two-minute comment, I give the floor to Dániel Z. Kárpát.
u2016-05-13-19	Mr President, Dear House, Since we are talking about the home creation package, which is only touched in a very small part in this bill that we are discussing, we cannot stop without saying the amazing parallel reality that Fidesz-KDNP invented for itself, because even those interested in the CSOK are interested in the banks, so a fraction of the people preparing for it, perhaps a one-digit percentage, are interested in the new-built apartments that your friends want to build. So the interest in 10+10 is a fraction of what is being expressed, by the way, for an expansion, a buy-in or a modernisation in order not to heat the street. The government is perfectly indebted to 90 percent of Hungarian society, who cannot afford a newly built residential property. And that you're trying to alleviate this amazing state of absence with a state-lawed pilot game, that's just ridiculous. The state piloting game called NOK is essentially a type of consumer group that you have banned from our proposal very rightly in 2014. It was also said that the package before us could provide a discount of between HUF 80 and 85 thousand per year for an average family - unfortunately the family with two children is no longer ordinary, if only it were, say, three or four children. The fact is that there is a question of how much 27 percent world record VAT will take away from these families, as your cosmetic reduction applies to 6-7 percent of the consumer basket, patheticly few products and services. It can be said that, compared to the 80-85 thousand that you mark as a discount, there are multiple amounts of the world record VAT that all countries have been able to drive out or reduce, even in the region, it is only you who dare to touch it in a cosmetic way. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2016-05-13-20	I now give the floor to Congresswoman Erzsébet Schmuck in two minutes.
u2016-05-13-21	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I would like to respond to certain points in the statement made by Mrs Mónika Dunai, especially when she said very proudly that the budget will leave 15 billion forints for families this year. Let us add other unnecessary luxury expenses in the budget. 15 billion for the families, nothing. Almost 50 billion will be spent on stadium construction this year, and in 2017, tens of billions will be spent on moving to the Castle, City Park, Paks II. 100 billion. Let's look at the proportions. 15 billion is nothing, nothing when every third family today is at the minimum level of existence. The minimum amount of the living is 88,000 forints today. And it is also important to know that only families who have at least an average income, who earn below it, will not be able to benefit from the 5 thousand HUF tax reduction. These numbers have to be looked at anyway. Fidesz should stop fooling around now. Go to the people, see how families who live under the minimum living standards struggle every day. Today, not only are they unable to make a living from month to month, but they are unable to make a living overnight. Much more significant changes would be needed. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2016-05-13-22	I now give the floor to Congressman István Józsa in two minutes.
u2016-05-13-23	Thank you very much, Mr. President. It is touching how you perform the apparent positives of the presentation without any numbers, with a nice dramatization, and do not care that there is a discount of 100-200 forints behind it. So the fact that raw milk's VAT has been reduced doesn't mean anything in direct consumer use, because it's hardly possible to get raw milk. Therefore, raw milk does not reach the final consumer. This has a intention of repressing the black market, it can even be welcomed, but do not try to sell it to consumers in such a way that it is good for consumers. Same egg. We don't eat that many eggs. According to KSH, one can say that one consumes one egg every two days, not two eggs per day. A few hundred forints comes out of this. If you look at the 266 billion Matolcsy that you took from the people, moving to the Castle, hundreds of billions of prestige investments will take 500 thousand forints from each Hungarian citizen. That doesn't get there because of the 500 billion dissipation that Matolcsy made and sent to prestige investments. So they take 500 thousand forints from people each, from all 10 million Hungarian citizens, and when they give back or give a discount for 200 forints, they advertise it on killing horns in Parliament. The other, dear Member, you were very young, you can't remember that famous loan discount during the first Orbán government, but it had consequences that would require correction in the event of any government. So that's as much shot as it is now. The association of victims of the CSOK has already been formed, in case you could look into it. Thank you very much. [[10.20]]
u2016-05-13-24	I give the floor to Congresswoman Mónika Dunai for two minutes.
u2016-05-13-25	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, It is very interesting to be involved in a debate where they question what is better for people, if milk is cheaper or if milk is more expensive. [[Dr. István Józsa: Will Matolcsy deposit or not?]] I think those who watch the mediation are simply saying what the Members are thinking or arguing about here. [[Z. Kárpát, Dániel: No mediation! It's been banned!]] There's no point in arguing about that. Is it better for people to have chicken, or do we now know that pork is cheaper this year, if it's cheaper or more expensive? [[Dr. István Józsa: No cheaper!]] Clearly, if it's cheaper. Or the egg. [[Z. Carpathian Daniel: If the 25 percent is not taken out of the other pocket, it is better!]] What is better for people if they have higher VAT rates or lower VAT rates? [[Dániel Z. Carpathian: Here is the highest in Europe! What are you talking about?]] We know very well that it is much better to have up to HUF 10 million in free support - CSOK - that families can use or if they do not have? What is better if there is a preferential loan for home creation or if there is no preferential loan? [[István Tukacs: No! Interventions in opposition benches.]] What's better? If the economy is growing or if the economy is not growing? What's better? If new jobs are created or if they are not created? I think it's quite simply amazing that some people can argue about it. You can't argue about that. Clearly, it will be better for people if the milk, the chicken, the pork, the eggs are cheaper, and I can continue the line. [[Nándor Gúr intervenes several times. Dr. István Józsa: That's not what we're arguing about! István Tukacs: That's why we're here!]] VAT is 5 per cent, and the range of this is constantly expanding depending on the performance of the economy. Thank you very much. [[András Tállai applauds. Dániel Z. Carpathian intervenes.]]
u2016-05-13-26	We will now return to the speakers that have been announced, and in this context I will give the floor to Mrs Mónika Bartos.
u2016-05-13-27	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Fellow Members! A lot has been said from the speakers before me, from the Secretary of State, from the key speakers and from my fellow Members. I would not like to repeat these, but I would just like to bring to you one aspect that was not mentioned, and what is perhaps important is that we look at the proposal before us from this approach. We know that, and it has often been said in this House, but it is worth recalling that, in recent years and this year, one of the outstanding topics of international public opinion is the system of sustainable development goals and their implementation, and this is nothing more than to create a living, decent world, everyday life for ourselves and for all mankind; a natural environment that can provide the necessary conditions for our lives, clean air, clean drinking water, soils suitable for food production; an economy that serves people and a healthy society, balanced in body and soul, which can take responsibility for itself and for the future generation. This threesome, the environment, the economy and the sustainability of society go hand in hand, they cannot be separated from each other. The reason I'm bringing this up is because our lives are in a framework. In a framework that sets out our daily lives, individuals, communities and society as a whole, and this framework is largely designated for us by law. And it doesn't matter what laws are within which we live our lives, and whether these laws can shape healthy, harmonious societies and human communities in body and soul. And what is it that makes a person, a community, balanced in body and soul? My fellow Members have said many things. Family is important, it is important that we know and know the safety of our children, but as has been said, the existence of safety and existentiality, and this means jobs in everyday words. I think that one paradox of modern societies after the industrial revolution is that, as long as it creates a comfortable life for people, serves and serves them with machines, it is becoming less and less dependent on human labour. As a result, people often lose their jobs because the human hand is not needed, and this leads to real uncertainty, and it does not help to create and develop sustainable societies at all. Unfortunately, these processes are still taking place today and we need responsible decisions to stop and manage this process. It is indeed true, as has been said by my fellow Members, that the high tax burden on living work in Hungary was a serious problem before 2010, and the civilian government that took office in 2010 set the goal of increasing employment and reducing these burdens. In 2010, he decided to introduce a single-key, 16 percent personal income tax, which reduced the burden on labour, so that wages are also subject to a very low tax rate in Hungary in comparison with the EU. This result, which has improved year after year and the tax rate has decreased, is maintained by the government at 15 percent in 2017 and, in addition, the rate of tax-free reimbursement for work is increased by 40 percent in 2017. It was said to rise to 15 forints/km from 9 forints/km. I think that this will help a lot of families, because a lot of people are willing to take a trip to get a job and help in everyday life. We can also see and aim for the government to shift the focus of the tax system from taxes on income to taxes on consumption, type of traffic and special taxes on environmental protection and health protection. From all of this, it seems to me that there is a business- and employee-friendly approach, with the aim of reducing taxes and administration. There has been talk about VAT and the fact that several products have already fallen under a reduced VAT rate, and they have been expanding since then and in the following year. This is important because it is important for the job to exist, but it is also important to know how and what we can spend our income, and if it is constantly showing up for different products since 2011, and this is expected to increase in 2017, as my fellow Member Mónika Dunai mentioned earlier, the tax on poultry meat, eggs, fresh milk is reduced to 5 percent, as well as the VAT on internet services and restaurant meals is reduced to 18 percent. He said so, and I would also like to point out that as a result, between 80 and 85 thousand forints per year remain in families with two children. I know my fellow opposition Members expect more, but I think that we are on the same path and we are moving forward step by step, and, as we have seen from the presentation and from the contributions of my fellow Members, every year the government takes further steps to build a common goal, a healthy society and a community in one body and soul. We have never said that we have come to the end of the work, but we have said that this approach prevails in government policy, and we are doing everything we can to achieve this goal and the well-being of all of us as soon as possible. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches. Dr. István Józsa and István Tukacs applaud.]]
u2016-05-13-28	I now give the floor to Congressman István Józsa. [[10.30]]
u2016-05-13-29	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I would really like to congratulate Mónika Bartos on his contribution, because the goals he has set out as his own life's dream, perhaps extending to a wider circle, are all agreed and have very noble goals. In order not to contradict what you said, I would like to discuss a part of the proposal that replaces an old debt, and the MSZP fraction also considers it very important, this is an amendment to the rules on wages, income and service for the National Tax and Customs Office. The proposal introduces the long-awaited new wage model of the National Tax and Customs Office staff by amending the Great... NAV Act - I said almost a great law, but the Act on NAV is quite large. That's what they call a career model using your new vocabulary. I would prefer that to be a system of advancement, because your career may not be wanted by everyone at the National Tax and Customs Office, but the 10-15-20 years you work there would be good for a transparent system of promotion along with a payroll system if you could do so in a clear way. For some reason, they fell in love with this career model. Maybe one of their advisors at the Century End translated it from English for good money, so I'm sure there's a history. What you're covering in this case is quite positive. Therefore, the National Tax and Customs Office is a consolidated institution with a special status as a public administration and law enforcement function, a consolidated public body. Accordingly, staff shall consist of civil servants, handling workers and professional armed finance officers. The rules on the staff of the new organisation, established from 1 January 2011, with the integration of the APEH and the Customs and Finance Guard have been continuously tried to standardise over the last five years, essentially on the basis of the public service relationship. On the other hand, the new wage model, which you call a career model, will apply both to government officials and finance officers, who are members of an armed organization, i.e. also to finance officers, is based on the new professional career model, which was introduced by the Act of 2015 on the employment relationship of professional staff of bodies carrying out law enforcement tasks, i.e. Hst., adopted in April 2015. Then the finance officers weren't involved, and now the proposal is trying to correct it. The new career model is the introduction of a fundamentally new system of promotion and salaries for the National Tax and Customs Office. The main elements of this new system will make the situation of workers clearer and more favourable; not least the one that has come up due to the neglect of recent years will make up for it. The rules of classification and advancement are significantly changed. The bill ensures that progress is continued within the classification category in the event of completion of further training requirements and appropriate performance. This means progress in steps within the category of grades, thus setting out a clear path for those concerned. The head of the National Tax and Customs Office sets out the classification of each job in the Employment Code on the basis of an assessment of the content of the job carried out in a defined methodology and in a procedural order, so that such an employment policy will be updated at least. The level of organisation of the job and the level of employment should also be taken into account in the assessment of the job. In the case of finance officers, the bill assigns certain grades to the categories of classification. There was also an anomaly that the rank had progressed separately, and from time to time the job position changed depending on the management. So, in the future, the categories of classification will have the right rank, which is what the bill will order. The rank shall move along with the filled position. As a result, unfortunately, there may also be a negative case that, in the event of a lower ranking, the member of the professional staff will have a lower rank. This is a rather unpleasant situation, but it resolves the anomaly that, on the basis of his position, a young, lower-ranking finance officer may be superior to the senior, higher-ranking accounting officer under his age, thus making the relations of subordination clearer, and basically according to the divisional distinction, place. So I think that this is basically a correct change. The salary will be composed of the following elements: basic salary, additional time and public service allowance. The basic salary shall be multiplied by the periodic penalty payment plus the basic salary, i.e. a clear, calculated value. The replacement time is a remuneration for the service of the public, i.e. the ten years of government service, public service, professional service, judicial staff, judges, prosecutors, civil servants, and increases every five years. So this is what we call a time substitute. The public service supplement aims to compensate the government official or the finance officer for the additional obligations undertaken by the establishment of a legal relationship and for the additional demands and charges associated with the professional occupation. Its value shall be determined by an implementing regulation of this Act or by a salary basis of between 50 per cent and 650 per cent. Thus, a significant range of dotifications, a diversion range, is allowed by the public service supplement. The introduction of a new career model also means the development of salaries as from 1 July 2016. As with the new Hst., the new salary scheme will only be introduced gradually as follows. In the case of non-leading government officials and finance officers, the new salary shall provide a salary increase of at least 15 per cent and a maximum of 30 per cent from 1 July 2016 compared to the remuneration in force on 30 June 2016. If, on the basis of the new salary scheme, the increase in the salary of the government official or the finance officer would not reach this level, a specific correction fee should be fixed for him. In the case of management posts, the salary increase shall be at least 10 per cent but not more than 15 per cent, i.e. of a more moderate and moderate value. In calculating the salary increase, the salary elements which appear on a permanent basis in the monthly salary, such as salary supplements, allowances and supplementary allowances, shall be taken into account mutatis mutandis. In the rest of the bill, I would like to point out that this will ensure that the training requirements are met and ensure an adequate salary increase in the event of completion of further training. [[10.40]] The MSZP has supported a new professional career based on similar regulatory solutions and a similar salary increase already in April 2015 by the new HSzt. in its vote. So this element of the submission of tax laws is eligible for us, and some details could be more elaborate. Overall, however, on the 2017 tax package, what you are proclaiming is that everyone can take a step forward, this means very different steps. In fact, it means that, in the area of excise duty, an amortised increase in excise duty on fuels - when the price should be reduced, it will suddenly increase due to the increase in the tax - will mean an extreme increase in the price of cigarettes, which is likely to favour the black market, unfortunately, so the change in excise duty is particularly unfavourable for consumers. You are proclaiming the serious effects of VAT reductions, but it will actually mean a few hundred forints reduction for those in need. So they do not want to serve a consumer purpose, but to solve certain sectoral problems and whitening problems. At the same time, the wealthy and the rich give tens of billions of forints of castle renovation tax relief, which is quite nonsense that a tax reduction can be used up to HUF 30 billion in the case of castle renovation. In view of all of this, the MSZP cannot support the whole tax law, but welcomes the part concerning the employees of the National Tax and Customs Office. Thank you, Mr. President.
u2016-05-13-30	It is now possible to speak for two minutes, and I give the floor to Congressman Nándor Gúr.
u2016-05-13-31	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I will pick up where my colleague Joshua left off. In our view, a tax law works well and correctly if it benefits a far-reaching majority of society, not if it rewards the rich to a very large extent - quoted in quotes - and those who live their lives in relatively difficult conditions can bend down for crumbs. This is also confirmed by this tax law, because when it comes to partial VAT reductions - here alongside our world champion VAT, 27 percent VAT - it is clear that this means 100-200 forints per person per month in a more solid living family, while my fellow Member Józsa quite rightly said that those who bought land estates - when they are paid for, I don't know, but that's not the point at all, but in addition to buying these land estates - let's say Tura and other places bought illustrious castles for petty money - I think the Tura Castle was bought for 200 million forints - and now they can become virtual beneficiaries for corporate tax reliefs up to 31 billion forints. Meanwhile, the rest of the people who are near the ground can become a mercenary, and they can be practically a day laborer in these things or in a fitting way with these things. Overall, his philosophy is not good. Mónika Dunai, I just want to say that we need to think about what is good for people, but not for some, for the far-reaching majority of people. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2016-05-13-32	We are now returning to the speakers that have been announced, and I give the floor to Mr Tamás László.
u2016-05-13-33	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, Dear fellow Members, There are three main characters in this room. There is a pro-government side that is not a button pusher at all in the debate of various laws, just as it is not in the debate of tax laws, but in a creative way. Those who make such statements are likely to come from themselves. There are opposition representatives, and I will give you a little more analysis of it, because the third category is the circle of taxing citizens, those who are buying on the market in New Palota this weekend, and they are likely to be very pleased that, contrary to the disaster reports of socialist Members, they will be able to buy milk, dairy products, eggs and poultry at a cheaper price, and earlier, pork, which is lower than the VAT rate from 1 January this year. And this includes, of course, small and medium-sized enterprises, for whom not only a few sentences have to be made in relation to VAT laws, but also the tax laws are embedded in a significant context here, since by 60 percent of EU funds in this seven-year cycle are allocated to small and medium-sized enterprises, and then we will see to what a significant extent they appear in tax laws, thus ensuring coherence for these businesses. They listen with a very sensitive ear to this debate by taxpayers, businesses, small and medium-sized enterprises, and they hear it precisely, because they have decades of experience that the irresponsibleness of the socialists sometimes comes with a honey-dog policy and then, changing it, with whip politics; it is enough to think about, say, the Bokros package or the Bajnai package and similar packages, which are usually preceded by some sort of, say, political campaign discount. So they hear exactly what you're talking about isn't true. At the same time, they also clearly hear the cute campaign of Jobbik, its appearance on tax laws. So I feel that the taxpayer citizen listens and listens with a sufficiently sensitive ear and hears the LMP's mild disaster policy in relation to tax laws. [[Dániel Z. Carpathian: Now let's hear the facts!]] Because what's the truth? On the other hand, the fact is that, among other things, due to tax measures in recent years, we have been able to build a tax system to stimulate growth that strongly supports families, employment, while at the same time reducing the tax burden on small and medium-sized enterprises and encouraging their development and investment. This started not only in recent years, but also in this very important year's or 2017 legislative amendment. At the same time, the government has taken internationally recognised steps to combat the black economy, which has improved the efficiency of tax collection and has seen a spectacular increase in revenues from consumption and traffic taxes. Together, this has allowed work on tax reductions to continue next year. Because what is the primary purpose of the 2017 tax package? The primary objective of this business-friendly tax package is to reduce taxation and administration, and I would like to talk about this layer in particular, as my fellow Members have discussed various other details of the tax package. The tax reduction tax package will be carved at several points next year at public burdens, leaving ten billion in the pockets of the population, small and medium-sized enterprises. [[10.50]] Let's look at it in detail. What will the specific taxes of small-tax companies look like in 2017? Under the current rules, the amount of the non-refundable grant paid to cover costs or for development purposes is part of the revenue of the taxing company, including a threshold of HUF 6 million, since, when the revenue threshold is exceeded, a tax of 40 per cent should be paid to the portion above the threshold. How does the amendment work? The amendment states, like the legislation of the SAY, that this type of aid is not part of the revenue. On the basis of a transitional rule, this provision may apply to revenue already generated after 1 January 2014. I have already said in the introduction that the tax laws also contain very important clauses in relation to the use of EU funds, and this provision also makes the use of EU funds and their involvement in the development of small and medium-sized enterprises significantly more effective. The taxpayers who are the TBJ. they are considered to be engaged in ancillary activities in accordance with the provisions of the Staff Regulations of Officials of the European Union and of the Conditions of Employment of Other Servants of the European Union. The Katv. However, according to its current provisions, they still have to pay a lot of tax of HUF 25,000 if they cannot continue their activities during their incapacity to work, resulting in an additional burden for them. It is quite clear that there is an injustice in this, and that is why the proposal, which applies to small-scale companies, exempts the taxpayers concerned from paying specific taxes for the months when they are unfit for work. Let's look at the category of corporate taxes. With regard to the small company tax, the proposal provides for a conceptual transformation of the tax base in such a way that it is based solely on the balance of income extracted from and included in the undertaking, i.e. essentially on the difference between the dividends paid, the withdrawal of capital and the capital increases. The funds accumulated but not extracted from the undertaking would, in principle, not increase the tax base in the future. In the context of the conceptual transformation of the tax base, a number of tax base adjustments are deleted and the determination of the tax base is significantly simplified on the basis of the proposal. The rules of the tax advance are further simplified, which should be defined as the difference between the wage weight payable during the advance payment period and the dividend payable as an expense and the approved dividend recognised as revenue. On the basis of the proposal, it is also a new element that, following the return to corporate taxation, the income reserve accumulated during the period of small business taxableness, which was not taxable under the small corporation tax, will be subject to the rules on the development reserve by reducing its amount by the book value of investments made during the period of small business taxpayers and the value of the dividends received. Thus, this amount will only become taxable if it is not used for investment within four years. So there's an investment incentive task here, and there's an incentive factor to change the tax law. If the above difference is negative, mainly in the case of significant investments, it increases the loss margins. Further amendments will be made at the same time as the above, which are not linked to the conceptual transformation, but may further increase the attractiveness of the tax. These are the following: the number of persons employed will be maximized in 50 instead of 25 persons. The second is that the limit on the cessation of the small company's taxable personality is increased to 100 people. This is a very important thing, because, on the basis of the proportion of 60% of EU funds for small and medium-sized enterprises, this number of people is indeed included in tax laws in parallel with development and growth promotion. In the event of an interim transition, in the case of the criterion of the balance sheet total, the pro rata part of the period shall be cancelled. Small business tax can be reduced by the income of complementary entrepreneurs, which is not the basis for social contribution tax. The number of costs not recognised, not incurred in the interests of the undertaking, becomes identical to the items listed in the case of corporate tax. One is the following: a more realistic corporate tax advance is set for the returnees. The budgetary impact of these measures on the current group of taxpayers is HUF 1-2 billion, but in the case of a major expansion of the tax base - and we expect this from the amendment of tax laws - it could be HUF 10-15 billion. I think if we ask a small company or a small taxpayer what he would expect most, he says he'd be happy to pay taxes if it means less administration, less complexity, less constraints. I believe that these steps will help growth, reduce bureaucracy, and thus serve to a very large extent very important small taxpayers and small companies, which are a very large number of businesses. There is a change in the simplified business tax, as aid for cost cover or development purposes reduces the basis for a simplified business tax. This is in sync with what we just said. There will be changes in taxes on motor vehicles. In the motor vehicle tax, in the domestic car tax, a tax advantage of HUF 13,000 per year for those with reduced mobility is also due to a taxable person with other disabilities, such as autistic, visually impaired or hearing loss, or to a close relative who carries such a person in a common household. Once again, I think that the fallen and those in difficulty are supported by the government with this step. In the company car tax, however, the attention of the government, the NAV, was, of course, to a certain extent subject to tax evasion. Some items about the company's car tax. In the context of the special law, the basic care for dentists, nurses and school health is subject to the same treatment as the general doctor, home-child doctor, and therefore the car operated by the dentist, nurse and school health care provider is also exempt. So, in fact, it serves health care in some way, it also serves its basic care, the most sensitive, most close to the population. And here comes the tax evasion. In order to exclude tax evasion, the long-term lease holder can no longer be subject to the company's car tax as of 1 January 2017, since several times the company's car tax liability is played out in such a way that the company leases the car to its manager and the manager does not account for any costs, but the company can account for depreciation, so that the private person receiving the long-term lease will not be a taxable person. The next big item is the question of the banker. The rate of the bank tax for credit institutions in 2017 and 2018 will be 0.15% for the part of the tax base not exceeding HUF 50 billion and 0.21% for the above amount. The special tax on credit institutions and financial institutions shall be determined from 1 January 2017 not on the basis of the revised balance sheet total for 2009 but on the basis of the adjusted balance sheet total calculated from the data of the second annual accounts before the tax year. It is proposed that the special tax on investment service providers should be paid for the 2016 tax year and that this special tax will be levied from 2017. The credit institution's allowance shall be discharged from 1 January 2017. Let's look at the public health product tax. There are two things here. One is to exclude tax liability and the other to support certain health-preservation programmes. What's this about? The minimum quantity of herbal medicinal products should exclude or exclude the obligation to pay taxes by adding a minimum quantity of herbal medicinal products to producers of certain alcoholic beverages. In the case of herbal drinks not bearing the tax burden, the standard provides for a minimum quantity of herbal herbs to be used and requires that the taste and smell of the herbs used must be dominant in the taste and smell of the drink. [[11.00]] In this context, the herbal concept of the law also changes. In order to exclude typical tax evasion, the proposal also states that a spirit drink, which is a flavoured vodka, should not be regarded as a herbal drink. At the same time, the proposal allows taxable persons to reduce their tax liability from 2017 onwards, not only by reducing the cost of their health-preservation programmes for free, but also for up to HUF 500. The next major provision concerns advertising tax. The amendment of the advertising tax rules aims to reduce the tax avoidance practices of advertising service providers who are publishing advertisements in Hungary but are not established here, typically operating on internet platforms. One of these is a special penalty for multiple increases, which can be imposed in the event of a declaration of publication to the customer or failure to notify the tax authority, up to a total amount of HUF 1 billion per tax year. Another means of enforcing the filing of a declaration is that the tax authority establishes a presumed tax of HUF 3 billion for taxable persons who fail to submit a declaration. The taxpayer will be able to prove that within 30 days. However, if it fails to do so, the decision shall become final and enforceable upon expiry of the time limit for objection. Dear House, The government's significant bureaucracy reduction efforts are also reflected in the tax laws. I mean, if you're gonna pass, let's say "be," which means the government is consistent in its entire operating order. Let's take a look at what's going on with the levies. The tax on the law of practice will be abolished. The proposal excludes from the scope of the levy law the so-called "praxis' law, so that the acquisition of it does not give rise to a duty obligation. State aid for housing purposes. Here the CSOK comes with sarcastic remarks from socialist circles. I think we should ask the families who are going to have three children or three children, how they feel about this. I think your sentences, your thoughts don't really come across the plans, the dreams these families weave. In this case, the CSOK provides extraordinary help. What's going on in this case? In order to further favour housing aid, second-hand housing purchases using CSOK, the draft allows the amount of non-refundable housing state aid to be reduced when applying for the benefit of replacement replacements, i.e. if housing is acquired within one year of the sale of the dwelling. There is also an increase in the tax exemption for land grabbing. The new rule that allows the application of the tax exemption, even if the land is subject to property rights, will help farmers to obtain land. The exemption shall be granted if the farmer undertakes to commence and continue the cultivation of the land not to sell the land, i.e. he does not establish any property rights, and he undertakes not to sell the land for a period of at least five years from the end of the right of property, but at the latest within five years from the acquisition of the property. The amendment of the Tax Act also concerns the reimbursement of certain procedural levies. The applicant for enforcement shall notify the notary responsible for the location of the property of the seizure of the immovable property, who shall issue a certificate of the filing. In order to ensure that enforcement costs do not increase with the levy on the certificate, the proposal provides that, in the past, if a paid levy requesting enforcement is applied for, it may request it back from the State tax authority in a separate procedure. Another: For companies, the Ptk. In order to comply with its provisions, they had to carry out a capital increase. If other changes were notified at the same time as the announcement of the capital increase, they could not enforce the tax exemption, but they had to pay a procedural levy of HUF 40 thousand. Moreover, companies that announced the capital increase separately and the additional changes separately paid a total levy of HUF 15 000. In order to lift this anomaly, the proposal provides for a refund of the amount of the levy already paid up to HUF 25 thousand for companies that could not enforce the favourable rule. This is also the restoration of justice. In the case of a transaction fee, the loan repayment paid in cash to a financial institution other than the payment service provider, which provides credit and money loans, will be subject to a levy from 1 January 2017. I think that, as mentioned above, taxable persons who, by the way, listen attentively and with open ears and sensitive listening to what is going on here in Parliament in connection with the debate on tax laws may think that these are the right direction and steps in the right direction. Therefore, I would like to reiterate that the primary objective of the 2017 business-friendly tax package is to reduce tax and administration. The tax reduction tax package will be carved at several points next year at public burdens, leaving ten billion in the pockets of the population and businesses. Please accept the amendment of the tax laws. Thank you for your attention. [[It's a rare round of applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-05-13-34	I now give the floor to Congressman Nándor Gúr.
u2016-05-13-35	Thank you very much, Mr. President. With regard to tax laws, I do not think that there is anything else to start with, sentences, ideas, except that it is not a mistake in the legislative agenda, but cynicism, what you are doing; that the laws on which the budget is based or that the tax laws are brought before Parliament after the general debate on the budget has taken place. They're obviously counting that there's no need to make any changes here, the budget goes as you planned. These two debates do not make any sense in this sense, since they will not produce the result of influence. In the situation of departure, I would like to state a basic position because they talk so much about what their economic policy results and many other things bring to people. I would like to tell you that in 2009 the share of people living in long-term poverty in Hungary was 5.7 percent in the whole of it. This is also high, but I would add that by 2015 this has risen to 7.2 percent. That is, about 150,000 more people live after five years, in 2015 in a state of persistent poverty than before. But if you look at children, the number of children living on long-term poverty has increased by more than 400 thousand. Well, that's what your economic policy, your tax policy, everything you do to people. This is the starting position, perhaps that should be changed in the coming period to try to legislate for the benefit of the vast majority of people. The issue of tax collection was discussed, the minimization of the black economy. I totally agree, I've been pushing this for a very long time, so I can support it, that's what I'm trying to say. Whether it's about the freight, the cash registers, yeah, I'm saying this is the way to go, I'm just saying it's consistent. So in this sense, let us say, the collection of the VAT on concessions should have been done in relation to casinos, or now, in the context of the negotiation of this law, the collection of taxes from buddies on casinos should also be ensured. No, you really don't just need to find the tools to collect taxes from the shoemaker to the hairdresser, but you need to do it from your buddies, from the wealthy circle. That's what you promised in your convergence programme, but, well, I see there's a protected circle you don't want to touch. There is a lot of talk today about the fact that there are measures in this tax law for the benefit of workers, such as 9 forints per kilometer for car access, 15 forints per kilometer. Yeah, factual, specific, that's right. But I would like to give you an example of what happened between 2010 and 2016 in the case of the minimum wage, while we are talking about workers, we should buy a minimum wage person. [[11.10]] At the time of the change of government, the total amount of the minimum wage contribution was HUF 32 thousand for the employer and the employee. Now the minimum wage contribution is HUF 69 000, i.e. HUF 37 thousand per month for one person with a minimum wage, the employer and the employee pay so much more per month. Do you understand what I'm saying? Now, in contrast to the cost of a mileage from 9 forints to 15 forints, I say it's a category of ridiculousness. Rather, they should ensure that they give up their own greed. They do not want to collect extra contributions from where the problem is greatest, where the most assistance should be given, but they should be spent precisely to increase salaries and wages, and then we would not be keeping it there that it is just reaching, the purchasing power of the minimum wage exceeds in 2010, but could be a net minimum wage of HUF 100,000. I think this is the way to go. They talk about VAT reductions for poultry, for eggs, for raw milk. Of course, yes, only the percentage of raw milk on the counters should be checked for the percentage that can be achieved and the proportion of total purchases, and then it is obvious that even milk, let alone the reduction of VAT on basic foods, would not even be achieved for milk, because raw milk is a small percentage. They talk about reducing the VAT on catering in the dining room, but they don't talk about how this doesn't affect the menus, they don't talk about how this doesn't affect delivery food. So again, I'm just saying that you're cutting me up. In a thin slice, steps are taken, and in total, they do not achieve a result, but they do not strive for it, which would benefit the vast majority of people. With regard to income tax - already mentioned - people will be burdened with gas oil, but with the price per barrel of gasoline, extra burdens will be poured on people. Practically for one family, a burden equal to or greater than 30,000 forints is poured on people. Overall, this will bring the government additional revenue of some HUF 80-85 billion. The castles? Well, don't talk about it, I just told you, I'm almost saying that everything you're doing is repulsive. For those who should really be given a helping hand, they do nothing; for those who have accumulated thousands of hectares of land estates and bought castles for small sums of money, they give them the opportunity to obtain immunity from corporate tax in the order of tens of billions and HUF 31 billion. Look, if you have to make a sum, then I say that you give people in need, of course, a VAT reduction of between HUF 100 and 200 per month, and for the wealthy, a reduction of billions, of tens of billions. In terms of wages, we should move forward with regard to salaries. We would not need a public employment salary of HUF 52,000 net, not a minimum wage of HUF 73,000, not government greed, as I just said, but assistance to people. Mr. President, thank you very much.
u2016-05-13-36	I now give the floor to Secretary of State András Tállai.
u2016-05-13-37	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I would like to address only one subject, namely this particular... [[Intercoms: No sound.]]
u2016-05-13-38	No sound, sorry.
u2016-05-13-39	I'm sorry. [[He's putting the microphone on.]] Mr President, Dear Parliament, I would like to comment on only one question, namely the issue of the promotion of monument renovation. I would like that because each socialist Member speaks up and talks about the possibility of a tax reduction of $30 billion, and something big, I don't know, is talking about fraud when the following are the facts, I would like to tell the faction. This kind of tax relief was introduced by the Hungarian Socialist Party. This kind of tax relief works from 1 January 2010. You introduced this for a renovation of monuments. There was no limit to the tax relief, there is currently, and there was no provision for tax relief, for example, there was no need to provide an inheritance certificate in order to benefit from the tax relief. This tax relief is now being corrected, modified and modernised. This is what the MSZP is criticising, therefore, its own amendment proposal. This also shows how controversial their approach to the tax law is. They don't even know what they're judging anyway. I was forced to say this because every single socialist speech had a key element in this question, so that it could be replaced, that the Socialist Party itself introduced this type of tax relief. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-05-13-40	I give the floor to Member István Józsa for a two-minute speech.
u2016-05-13-41	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, I'm sure you didn't miss the fact that this came into the package as an EU law on harmonisation at the time, and it wasn't exactly an executive order; you're adding that now to make it complete. And since then, Lőrinc Mészáros and other family businesses have grown woolly, very close to you, who are thinking about investing in castles, at least according to press reports. So maybe you're referring to an old law that didn't work because it wasn't complete, but you guys are doing it for some reason. We don't have a good feeling, given the uncontrolled use of the Tao hundred billion; they even kept it a secret as to the use of the tax, that is, the Tao. When there is no expectation of the Norwegian Fund, for example, in the vicinity of the accountability of sports associations [[András Tállai: It's not that.]] which meets the requirement of transparency and is publicly accounted for, you are making a law against them. In fact, even the salad laws have proposed that most state-owned companies do not have to deal publicly with their data which otherwise require transparency. Here's an example of the renovation of Moscow Square. We had to sue on a lawsuit to find that the transfer of a single desk cost nearly HUF 2 million. So you're gonna have to take a look at your nails, but instead, you're gonna be encrypting. Thank you, Mr. President.
u2016-05-13-42	I now give the floor to Mr Mihály Witzmann as a pre-notified speaker.
u2016-05-13-43	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, The day before yesterday, in the general debate on the 2017 budget, I started my speech by saying that 2017 will be the year when, for the sixth time since the 2010 government change, the civilian government has had a mandate and the opportunity to prepare Hungary's budget. But here we can also say that it is now the sixth year that we are trying to correct the failed economic policy of socialist governments, which has actually marked the country by a number of misguided economic decisions, irresponsible budgeting and increasing debt. So much so that by 2010, our country was in a state-to-state state-to-state state-to-state situation, and we all remember the complete collapse, that it was possible to avoid or save the country by panickingly taking on a gigantic EU-IMF loan. Fortunately, there are many of us who believe that the change of government in 2010 has led to a clear turn in economic policy, as the economy is on the path to growth. We have been excluded from the excessive deficit procedure, and the Hungarian economy is now characterised by declining public debt, low government deficits, increasing employment, record low inflation, growing industry and booming trade. This year, the last EUR 14,3 billion of EU-IMF loans were fully repaid for the last one and a half billion loans. In parentheses, I would like to mention, for the sake of perception alone, that the total cost of the loan taken out by the socialists was about HUF 36 billion for the people in the electoral district of Siófok. [[11.20]] So we have to think about this much caliber when we speak or talk about the repayment of this loan with results. A successful and effective economic policy and sound budgetary positions were, of course, also necessary to transform the tax system. As a result, we are discussing today the tax package, the amendment of the tax laws for 2017. Today, we can also say that, thanks to tax measures in recent years, we have managed to build a growth-enhancing tax system that strongly supports families, facilitates employment and at the same time reduces the tax burden on small and medium-sized enterprises, and it is important to mention that it encourages development and investment. It is also important to point out that, at the same time, the government has taken internationally recognised steps to combat the black economy, resulting in a significant improvement in the efficiency of tax collection and a spectacular increase in consumption and traffic tax revenues. I have noticed here in the context of today's general debate that, in itself, perhaps all the groups of the parliamentary horseshoe, including my fellow opposition Members, could agree, and it was a special pleasure for me to hear this. All of these conditions, together, have allowed government work on tax reductions to continue next year, and it is also very visible, fellow Members, that socialist-liberal governments have conceptually increased the tax burden on families between 2002 and 2010, so that they have tried to offset the negative effects of their failed economic policies. Dear Parliament, In preparing for my speech today, without the need for completeness, I sought to collect the tax burdens that had risen during the governing of the socialists for about eight years, or even introduced as a new tax. [[Dr. Roland Mengyi intervenes.]] The list thus drawn up - here my colleague Roland Mengyi whispers in my ear that I don't have enough time to list it, and I'm not preparing for it, because the list thus made - unfortunately, he kicked more than five pages, and I managed to write it in rather small letters. Therefore, I would not undertake to give a detailed description or list of the tax increases of socialist governments, although I certainly think that we could learn a number of lessons from it. On the other hand, it is also clear that, after 2010, the civil government gradually reduced labour taxes as far as economic opportunities are concerned, and later also the individual turnover taxes in the areas where it was most needed. In addition, tax incentives have been introduced to encourage childbearing and to encourage economic and demographic trends in any way, helping families. Ladies and gentlemen, The primary objective of the tax package presented by the Government, which underpins the 2017 budget, is to reduce tax on the one hand and to reduce administrative expenditure effectively on the other. The tax reduction package aims to reduce the public burden on several points, which leaves ten billion people in the pocket of Hungarian taxpayers. When the tax laws were being debated today, as before, I listened with great interest in the speeches of my fellow opposition Members, which are not very original and often, perhaps, we can also say that the communication mechanism that has come back many times, that it is always possible to say something bigger than anything else, to always promise something bigger or even smaller according to the content. For example, we have heard several times here today that when we were talking about reducing 27 percent VAT to 5 percent, several people asked why it was good, but why it was 5 percent, why it was not less, or when it was about reducing the basic food to 5 percent of fresh milk, eggs or VAT on poultrymeat, why the VAT is only being reduced for these products, why the government is not expanding it to even more products. Or even going to work here I wrote to myself that the eligible cost is actually increasing from HUF 9 to HUF 15 per kilometer, but why not more. So I think that these comments can certainly seem to be popular outwards, but they cannot be called responsible in any way. I think it's a wheel of squirrels that launches a pointless bidding process, which, once again, is popular, but I'm not sure that it can be fiscally founded. When we say that the budget is stable, we need to keep an eye not only on the expenditure side, but also on the revenue side, precisely in order not to go about as the governments before 2010. I would also like to talk about the personal income tax rate, as, in view of the changes to the tax system planned for next year, it can also be said that the government intends to take a number of positive measures for taxpayers in 2017. In fact, in the case of the key, this means that it remains a 15 per cent key in the 2017 tax year as well. This reduction of 1 per cent from 16 per cent to 15 per cent for my constituency, more than HUF 1.1 billion per year for the Somogy 4 taxpayers, the seat of my constituency, and more than HUF 350 million per year for the taxpayers in the city of Siófok. So I think it's a positive result in any way to reduce his health. In addition, it is important to emphasise that the reduction of VAT on the Internet from 27% to 18%, the reduction of the general turnover tax on basic foods such as poultrymeat, eggs and fresh milk mentioned above, the further increase in the child benefit of personal income tax for families raising two children, administrative reduction measures, the changing cafeteria system and the business-friendly tax package again include countless discounts. In addition, the introduction of the possibility of an optional flat-rate taxation for renters can be an important change, for which the tax rate is 2 thousand HUF/year per square meter in Budapest, and for other settlements a thousand HUF/year in the proposal. A further positive change in the labour mobility measures mentioned several times today is the cost of the work that I have just mentioned, which is rising from 9 forints/km to 15 forints/km, but may also include broadening the concept of working accommodation or introducing housing support for mobility purposes. In my opinion, the conceptual amendment envisaged for small business taxation could be another relief for the small and medium-sized enterprise sector, as my colleague Tamás László has already mentioned in detail. The tax base reduction related to investments by small and medium-sized enterprises will be abolished at HUF 30 million and the HUF 6 million and 60% of the small business tax reduction will be abolished. We are very confident that this will appear both in employment and in the successful and effective day-to-day operation of the small and medium-sized enterprises sector. A positive change for families raising children or for those raising children could be that the cost of operating a nursery at work could be recognised in the future under the proposal. This, too, can have a demographic and social impact on the economy and I think families. It is also an important element that the bill also includes changes to the credit institution's allowance allocation or to the benefit scheme for persons seeking permanent employment protection. Following the earlier introduction of the online cash register and the EKAER, I think that, given the positive effectiveness of the measures, an online invoicing system could also be launched in 2017 in order to reduce the black economy even more effectively, which is intended to act effectively against chained VAT fraud. Under the proposal, the so-called Hungarian Google tax can ensure that economic activities and even global companies in Hungary are not exempt from the obligation to pay public burdens. In fact, the idea is that this could be an effective means of enforcing the obligation to pay advertising taxes, such as a fine of HUF 10 million, which can be repeated several times and increased exponentially, for example, an advertising publisher not registered as a taxpayer in Hungary, who, despite the tax authority's call, does not comply with its obligation to notify. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, Allow me to say a few things about some of the changes planned in the case of corporate tax and corporate tax exemptions. With regard to benefits, it is important to note that the tax base benefits related to royalties and certain intangibles can be used in the future on the basis of a much stricter methodology developed by the OECD compared to the previous domestic legislation. In this context, the beneficiary narrows the range of intangible assets as the advantage is granted only on the basis of intangible assets qualifying for royalty under the new rules. Another important amendment is that the basis for the discount is limited from income to profit. [[11.30]] An important change in the bill, and Mr Tállai State Secretary has already explained in detail that the benefits of the renovation of the monuments will be increased; a new tax base reduction will be introduced in respect of the costs of the maintenance of monuments, as well as an increase in the scope of the historic concession with the taxpayer financing the renovation. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, To sum up what has been said so far, I think that the bill for amending tax laws clearly reflects the Government's intention to ensure that, while ensuring the conditions for a balanced budget, further tax reductions, with the support of families and businesses, as well as the whiteening of the economy, a tax system that really stimulates growth and development can also be operated in 2017. In view of this, I respectfully ask my fellow Members to vote in favour of the 2017 tax package. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2016-05-13-44	I give the floor to Congressman Nándor Gúr in a two-minute time frame.
u2016-05-13-45	Thank you very much, Mr. President. A thought about the budget, the tax laws, the day-to-day events. You know, when they want to hide 266 billion forints, ski shop, hide within the framework of public finance, when they give their friends a monthly wage of HUF 5 million, 225 thousand forints a day, when moving to the Castle is planned for HUF 50 billion in the budget, for example in connection with the VAT reduction of HUF 15 billion for 10 million people; that is not a third of what we say moving to the Castle. So this is the tax policy you're pursuing, and you're trying to color and sell it like you're doing a miracle. Mr. President. Thank you very much.
u2016-05-13-46	I now give the floor to Congressman Sándor Bodó.
u2016-05-13-47	Thank you very much. Mr President, Mr. Secretary. Dear House, Two sentences, which are often said in a friendly or casual conversation, in relation to taxation: no one likes to pay taxes or the state doesn't work without tax revenues. Obviously, it always depends on the state of the current person, which one you prefer to take. When, let us say, an entrepreneur is in a period of tax return, perhaps the first, and when we say, the care of the state, then he agrees that without tax revenues, the state does not work. These are two very distant opinions, but actually, if we look deep into things, we can also say that they are both true. However, we do not need to define the tax measure in recent years on the basis of such a conversational view, but rather on the basis of the facts and measures, and so it is clear that a growth-enhancing tax system has been established. Its characteristics speak for themselves, as it supports families, supports employment, helps businesses, effectively fights against the black economy. And, of course, you can ask yourself, is that enough, are we done? Obviously not. The trends, the intent, must be monitored. And if only one or two of these features were true, even that would be honorable, let alone seeing these facts in a system. With regard to the 2017 tax laws, they also fit into the civil values system, as we are witnessing further tax reductions; administration is further reduced, which, I might say, is perhaps a decade-old, centuries-old demand. These are certainly forward-looking decisions. But let's look at the concrete facts that have already been mentioned, but I am also trying to add a little bit of the underlying light, the underlying intention, the electoral opinions. The VAT on poultrymeat and eggs will be 5% from 1 January. It has been said, but we also need to see that this is important not only for the consumer side, but also for the sector, which I do not think is a sin at all, and also for health. The previous year, when we talked about tax laws, it was natural to say that yes, pork is fine, but why not poultry. And now, when there's an opportunity, that argument may not even have been made yet. And a slightly separate world is the VAT reduction on fresh milk, which I hope will also be 5 percent from January 1st. The 5th constituency of Hajdú-Bihar County, I can also say that it is a district with agricultural potential on the one hand and a region with significant tourist attraction on the other. When discussing with farmers, it is very often said that what may be a little excessive, may be a little due to their daily life, their daily struggles result in a milk war in Central Europe. In this situation, it is quite certain that it is an important and useful measure to reduce the VAT on fresh milk, but this is not likely to solve all problems. By the way, the extent to which fresh milk is present in relation to the consumption mix is a state of play, and with the favourable development of VAT, I am quite certain that the percentage of consumption of fresh milk will otherwise increase. VAT on Internet services will also be reduced, and I think it is once again an area in which a lot of electoral opinions are published that we need to make our own. Internet accessibility has long been not only about entertainment, but also about work, learning and communication, of course. These are all things the financing of which, if it is more favourable, if it is less expensive, allows us to make possible more money for others, so it is absolutely necessary to support. I have just mentioned that there is a significant tourist attraction in the constituency, and I have already received encouraging feedback on restaurant services, even when drawing up preliminary plans, because it is important that restaurant services are available to as many people as possible, so that there is a better access. This is obviously also important in terms of tourism, but I also think it is important for families to have opportunities to leave together and to use this option under a more favourable set of conditions. There are technical changes to the VAT of the newly built residential properties, but this is much more than just a technical amendment. Here I would like to highlight the simple announcement and the clarification of the useful area, as Hungarian people have a very interesting and very valuable relationship with their own property. This also appears in the list of Hungarian proverbs: my house is my castle; then: I would go, but I cannot leave my house, the attachment to the house of parents. So these are all social roots that are very important. Of course, when you start buying an apartment, building an apartment, it is important that all parameters can be interpreted to the last detail, clear and accurate, because emotional charges are released, material and moral charges are triggered, which are important to move things forward, and they cannot afford ambiguous or ambiguous wording. With regard to the proposal, I am pleased to see that monitoring remains and should be given a significant role, since professionalism, justice and the effective control system are very important in adopting tax laws and even taxation. With regard to the specific VAT declarations, a very important and precise wording is included in the proposal in relation to the identification of the operators. I also fully agree with the fact that we also have to take care of the taxpayer's rating. Many times we hear the opinion, also from the voters, that: I have paid, but will anyone else do it? I think you could give me an example of that. There are such opinions. It is clear that the classification of good debtors, risky debtors, must be carried out in this respect, and I believe that, as I have said, it can certainly strengthen the adoption of the tax system. It has already been said, but it is also important to talk about the amendments to the EKÁER system. [[11.40]] Ingenuity is very, very present in today's world, to put it mildly, and the emergence of overloaded vehicles, the appearance of these small suppliers, is something that perhaps did not appear in the first proposals, in the previous proposals, it has not been formulated, but I can see that these types of vehicles are very present, they are very overworked many times, they are very transport risks, so this must also be addressed. There are a number of other measures in the queue: online reporting of invoicing programmes, changes to automatic equipment, new types of tax checks, changes in the rules for implementing changes to the tax number. So obviously, seeing these and the previous ones in a system, I feel it is important that we can characterize the measures, this proposal, by pointing towards justice, professionalism, acceptance, and I think this is the most important. The most important thing is that decisions are made in the interests of citizens, and I think they are. I strongly recommend your adoption, and I urge you to do the same. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-05-13-48	Ladies and gentlemen, There is yet another speech on the table, I give the floor to Mr Dániel Z. Carpát.
u2016-05-13-49	Mr President, Dear House, I have patiently waited my turn to try, for the last time, to pull back most of the pro-government representatives and the government itself from their parallel reality. Several speakers, who, by the way, spoke in a rather unscrupulous manner, including Jobbik, are no longer in the room, so it would not be worthy of a gentleman to return this paired foot slip behind their backs, so I am trying, rather, to remain on the ground of facts and figures, to explain to you that a few ten thousand HUF's perceived discounts, which you would like to imagine, where and how it goes on the other side. For example, with the 27 per cent VAT, which is maintained for 93-94 per cent of the consumer basket, it is certain that more than one year more goes away from families than would be left by the cosmetic discount, but it also follows from their expectations of income from excise duty and then the various amendments discussed in the next item on the agenda, which you already have on paper, that, in respect of excise duty and fuel tax content and others, tens of thousands of forints will be taken from the families concerned on the basis of their expectations, at least as much as they would now seem to leave in the process of tax waivers. We also see that if we look at the data and data sets of the OECD, the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development, we have a relatively recent report on the completed annual data in 2014 and less, at least incomplete, from 2015. But what we can see here is that in recent years the Hungarian personal income tax has become one-key and relatively low, so it is about. We are 1 percentage point lower than the average surveyed, not least in terms of the tax burden on employees, but there are tax types where the first of all OECD countries tested, there is one in which we are the third and there is one in which we are the fourth, but this government produces quite amazing, outlier results - in quotes. Families, by the way, have two children as well as the tax burden on families or singles, if we look at the average family - although I say once again, we should discuss how average a family with two children can be, not at all, unfortunately, it would be better to have as many children as possible in families as possible and this would be possible, but we can see from the study that we are in the first third of the OECD tax on families, with a brutal tax burden that appears to be only low compared to 49 percent of the singles' tax burden. But in addition to such demographic data, when in Hungary there are, unfortunately, many single people and many broken families with a fertility rate of 1.3 and 1.4, it is not only possible to talk about the system of family tax incentives. If we are affecting the entire national economy, we need to see that it is not the general condition that most people live in families with 3-4 children - unfortunately. However, in terms of VAT, the situation is very impressive: all neighbouring countries are braver than you in this area, even those in temporarily worse budgetary positions. But what is really outlier, and it has already been mentioned quite rightly, is the net minimum wage and its tax burden. We are looking at the facts, say, from 2010, from your first government in this period, so not counting the data of previous governments, but, let's say, in terms of the second and third Orbán governments, we see that, compared to 2010, the net minimum wage for 2015 - a closed year from which data is still available - has risen by 14.2 percent. So it cannot be taken away that the net minimum wage, I repeat, has increased by more than 14 percent over this five-year period, but the rate of the tax deduction that is subject to the minimum wage has increased by 93,3% in the period concerned, so during your regency, between 2010 and 2015, the net minimum wage has, once again, increased by 14.2 percent, and the rate of the tax deduction that is subject to the minimum wage by 93,3%. So it's quite brutal - quote - the result you can show in this social segment. We're talking about the hardest people in the line, working, trying to stay on their feet, and you are literally taxing them into coal. Then we talk about how this is a budget for tax cuts, and that is what the tax package is all about, at least backwards. We see that in 2010 the minimum wage was slightly over 60,000 forints, which was hit by a bit more than 34 thousand forints withdrawal. Although the minimum wage rose to almost HUF 69 000 by 2015, the tax deduction also increased to HUF 69 000, so we could have seen brutal increases and dramatic increases, instead of listening to us, and through a tax system supporting production, we should have focused on industry, agriculture and tourism, which is a leading sector, on tax incentives that would have allowed additional tax revenues to be boosted and the entire national economy would have benefited from more social transfers through a spin. However, the years are running by, and the fact is that while you are here polishing a few tens of thousands of HUF cosmetic changes in a parallel reality, on the one hand, you take this out of the other pocket, say, with regard to excise duty, let's say, by maintaining the world record VAT level, you can also say that even your dreams of economic growth are disappearing. If, by the way, we look at the press on May 13th, so today's press reports, then we see that the Hungarian gross domestic product has only increased by 0.9 percent between January and March this year. Even their ministry expectations were 1.7 per cent, as I recall, but expectations of over 2 per cent appeared for this quarter. So they couldn't produce half of this expectation over 2 percent. The Minister's justification was quite amazing, although Mihály Varga knows this profession, let us say that he has a perfect understanding of this process, and he probably knows very well that what he said today is an amazingly accurate, a pinpoint vision of how unable you are to strengthen an independent national economy on your own feet. After all, the Minister also said that the performance of foreign car companies has fallen and that EU funds, EU funds have slowed down. So you're talking about two spill-over processes that your government doesn't have any state-of-the-art, XXI. There's no response in the century. So what we are saying is that the national economy you have embellished over the last few years depends on the performance of foreign car manufacturers, where in many cases the Hungarian installer suffers only - citing sign - but there is a segment where the Hungarian share is less than 5 percent, even in terms of engineers and the proportion of suppliers; this is quite a bad and shameful data for you. The other issue is the case of EU funds: they have rejected themselves here precisely because, yesterday and the day before the budget debate, in detail, they said that the investment mass in this draft budget is over a thousand billion-dollar scale, where they do not want to invest with EU money, but with their own resources, but there is no economic growth, and now we are talking about less than 1 percent, so 0.9 percent in the quarter concerned. It is possible that they should be concerned with intelligent infrastructure investments, and not with those that have also been dealt with from EU sources, so let's say, decorative stone changes and events from which permanent jobs are very difficult to create. I don't want to hurt the stadium constructions that have been brought up forever over and over again, because they have done this, a lot of people have done it, but it seems that if you look at the move to the Castle, which, let's face it, would not be so much necessary right now, a fraction of this is now being shown as an apparent discount in a tax package, while not spending money on meaningful investments, such as a public home-building and rental-building program, they don't even think about such a thing. [[11.50]] With regard to CSOK and NOK, a PR campaign is being undertaken on the legs of the State Housing Programme, which can in fact be considered as a complement. In the meantime, the Member who was talking about a cute campaign came back; I would like to point out to him at a less cute speech that it was simply catastrophic, what he said here, because if we look at the details of this home-building leg, what we see here. We've already talked about the state-of-the-art charade called NOK. Consumer groups were correctly banned by this government in 2014, at least for the future, and they were now able to set up one, with a label, where even legal requirements include seeking a company as a mediator who had fulfilled its obligation to communicate information about consumer groups for so long, so it is quite amazing, and people who can use the full amount of discount that is promised can bring in at least 70-80 thousand forints per month. Let us let the guarantee rules be absent, so if such a consumer group or your state pilot play falls into play, there is no way to know how people account, how they get their money back, but to deceive the citizens of Hungary that this is a serious leg of a home creation program, this is quite ridiculous. As far as the CSOK is concerned, we see that the number of interested parties, although there are, is far from waiting, and that the number of citizens who have undivided common ownership, who have applied for it, has in many cases been allocated these amounts, which the bank wants to claim now, because you have not even been able to codify this law in a thoughtful way, and to establish frameworks that ensure the consumer protection of Hungarian citizens, so you can now be afraid of mass inlays. Anyone who has received the benefit of the CSOK with undivided joint ownership may lose it, perhaps because of the agreements he has already signed, a negative change in his life that his family may face. You have to take responsibility for this, but we don't see much of a sense of responsibility in this case, and we see that until you come up with a rent-apartment program, They are unable to respond to centuries of today's daily problems. So I would like the Member, Mr Secretary of State, to respond to what they think, say, about the sublet prices in Budapest, after the Members have refused to come to the home-building meetings organised by civilians for a year. When the CSOK amendment was announced, they finally came, so I'm writing this for their benefit, and they were there from then on, and they were at the forefront of it. It is very right that this was done at least with a multi-annual phase delay. But I would be very interested to know how you wish to intervene in the fact that rent prices in Budapest in the case of an average 60-square-metre flat in most cases went above 100 thousand forints extra, so that from the average salary of a Hungarian youth, we may agree that it is not possible to farm. The process has several components. One of the results, however, is that the accommodation divider and other systems belonging to the different sharing economy have actually removed more than 4 thousand properties from the rent market in Budapest, contributing to a supply shortage that cannot be reduced to the normal level without resolving it. One of the solutions would be the rent-apartment programme, because we could reduce supply shortages and alleviate them here. But the similar withdrawal of 2 thousand properties from the real estate market in overseas US cities caused a price explosion in the rent market, how did they expect that the double exception in Hungary would not cause a spillover crisis? And it's amazing that the government doesn't have an answer. So I would like the Member, Mr Secretary of State, to show that if there is an economic policy process in front of you, a system of processes that is not regulated and which is so negative in Hungary, how do you think they will not intervene? So you think it'll work itself out? Or will the members of the higher social groups take discounts through the CSOK, and then more real estate will be built on its own? So 42-43 thousand real estates would have to go under the roof every year in order to turn the real estate stock around at least every 100 years and replace it, compared to that, we have 8-9 grand facts. We sometimes understand what your completely flawed philosophy is: to benefit from the luckier groups, to make their situation easier, and their higher consumption may then drag some segments of the national economy, but it has turned out perfectly that this is irreparable, and it has not worked in recent years. We also see that there is a need for new constructions, but more than 70 percent of social groups are unable to think in new construction real estate, so they should be given discounts at the same time, not only a few hundred thousand, as the other branch of CSOK provides some cosmetic benefits for the purchase of the same number of used apartments, but the whole discount should be extended to used real estate, renovation and even new sub-installed expansion. Their national programme for energy modernisation, which would be comprehensive and would cover all the subjects concerned, is simply not available, even though EU funds would be available if this had been followed up. The fact is that you have repeatedly said here today that you want as many Hungarians as possible to move to own real estate. I'd love to, too, but we're not living a fantasy. A lot of people cannot afford this, because, let's say, they are not so lucky that they were able to wind up at HUF 180, they are not so lucky that this double government standard pushed them into the beneficiaries, quite simply a large part of the Hungarian people cannot afford to buy, say, a flat on a residential park, but they want to live, have a normal life with their family, want to contribute to the success of this country, and there is no way of life for them. So what we see is that this government justification simply doesn't hold up, that it's only for new property and for as many people as possible. Why? What is the reason why you are thinking of having as many new homes as possible in the hands of as many people as possible? This is very good, but it simply does not apply to the majority of society and does not provide life opportunities for it. So why are you obsessed with this justification when real life proves that this is pointless in this form? It is quite simply pointless for the social groups of the lower middle class to indicate that they have a separate property along a discount mass, say, the 10+10 that the person who already owns a construction site has a multimillion-dollar family reserve that can be moved in a short time. What about those who don't? So your explanation is simply untenable. Explain to us why they insist that everyone should have their own property, because this is a very nice dream, but what will happen to those who want to rent a flat, say, 40-50 thousand forints plus rent in Budapest a 66-70 sq m apartment, they want to have a baby there, because they see that they do not currently have the capacity to buy a newly built apartment in the future Balaszi dam. Think of the people who make up the vast majority of society and get out of their sick obsessions, which can only benefit from the upper middle class because they will destroy this country! Thank you for listening.
u2016-05-13-50	Ladies and gentlemen, I'm asking if anyone else would like to comment on the debate. I do not see a candidate, so the general debate is closed, and I give the floor to the Deputy Minister, Mr András Tállai.
u2016-05-13-51	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, Thank you very much for the speeches, the opinions, first of all for the speeches by the representatives of the pro-government Members, the Fidesz and the KDNP, for their support, and probably also for their vote in favour when the time comes for the vote. I think that the pro-government representatives understood the substance of the bill, understood the budgetary relationship of tax laws, understood that the tax law, the present tax law, is the basis for the revenue side of the 2017 budget, but also understood and supported that the time has come to reduce taxes in the country on the basis of the performance of the economy. [[Dr. János Latorcai, vice-president of the Parliament, takes the chair.]] It is natural for the pro-government representatives to support the VAT reduction, not to bagate it as opposition representatives; and it is also natural for the pro-government representatives to support the increase in child benefits in personal income tax, at all times any tax reductions, administrative cuts, bureaucracy cuts that we are doing in the area of taxation. [[12.00]] I would like to make a few points on the points raised by opposition representatives. I think that MSZP, Sándor Burány, is not on the right path when it says that the tax burden has increased in Hungary, as statistical data show that the tax burden above 41 per cent in times of crisis is now below 39 per cent, so there is no significant but still a decrease. In particular, there is a reduction in the tax burden on individuals, families, as the increase in family tax incentives has a significant positive impact here. On the whole, Mr Dániel Z. Kárpát also dealt with this at the end. I think that both of your positions are wrong, but the tax burden is reduced in Hungary. It is also a fact, and it must also be acknowledged, that, at the same time, due to effective government measures to whiten the economy, the increase in tax revenues is higher than the increase in GDP, thus having a retroactive effect on the tax burden on GDP, but I think that this should be welcomed rather than criticised. We take it for granted that the MSZP will return to the non-tax minimum wage period. I think that this is also a wrong way, because during that period, basically half the country was declared on minimum wage, all employers and employees were encouraged to report it on minimum wage, no taxes are due, and then the rest will be resolved somehow, especially without tax. That's where the Fidesz changed. He said that all income must be taxed. On the one hand, it is a just principle, and on the other hand it is a good one, because let us just think that the worker who worked on minimum wage was a child who could not avail himself of tax relief in the time of the socialists, although they were not even pro-taxers, they liked to produce income and they gave it to someone who did not produce or adds less to the total national product. We do not think this is the right way, we see Fidesz's position as a better way to increase the minimum wage, and it has also increased significantly. By the way, when the minimum wage tax was introduced, no one was worse off, as the state took over in the public sector, and under market conditions, it was directed by the companies. I am shocked at the fact that almost all opposition parties are undermining the VAT reduction. That's why they've been fighting for years, and now there's a significant VAT reduction that leaves 50-60 billion in people's pockets, and they say it's not worth anything, it's actually nothing. I accept, of course, the view that this will require more, that the VAT on more products should be reduced. Just remember this: the pro-governments are responsible for the balance of the budget, they are responsible for the budget deficit, they are responsible for the tax reduction, they are responsible for the growth of jobs, they are responsible for the growth of the economy, and you are responsible for nothing. You are only responsible for telling us that what the government is doing is not enough. The results of the VAT reduction should not be undermined. I believe that the opposition is on the wrong track when it considers the reduction of VAT on fresh milk to be insignificant and that it will not affect consumers. The aim is to have an impact, and the Hungarian people are eating fresh milk rather than pasteurised, preserved milk. Hopefully, the VAT reduction will have such a price reduction effect that it will appear in prices, and people will be able to consume fresh milk not only because it is healthier, but also through prices that they can be persuaded to eat fresh milk. I think that criticism of the increase in excise duty is incomprehensible. The opposition acts as if it does not know that we are a member of the European Union, and in relation to tobacco products, we still have until 31 December 2017 to reach the minimum tax level, which is EUR 115. On 1 September 2016, 1 January 2017 and 1 January 2018, the government chose the way to reach it at three paces. It is not the decision of the government, it is the decision of the European Union, it must be accepted, it must be acknowledged, and it must not be criticised by the government. Similarly, with regard to excise duty on fuels, the government has put forward a truly novel proposal to Parliament or left an alternative to the bill. The Parliament will decide which one to accept, if the $40 price per barrel is the additional excise charge, which is minimal, or only for $50. That's a question to be decided. However, account should be taken of the fact that world market price conditions should be taken of the tax burden in Hungary. Moreover, the excise duty burden on fuels is still in the last trimester in Europe, even in the European Union. I did not understand many things from Mr Szilágyi's speech. No new data need to be provided to primary producers and legal arrangements are being made. However, I am surprised that Jobbik does not need the online billing system that we are planning to introduce. This means that Jobbik does not want to fight for the whitening of the economy and supports the VAT fraud chain. The whole point of online billing is that we're gonna figure this out. I was very surprised to hear that you criticized the NAV, Congressman György Szilágyi. In terms of NAV, I think that, in this regard, that there is not enough expertise in NAV, this is simply not a real criticism. It doesn't make sense why he wants his former NAV leaders back. It makes me wonder how this opinion was born in Jobbik. I respect Dániel Z. Kárpát's explanation of what he is doing about the Hungarian economy, but I would also like to tell him if he were here that this is a misinterpretation, since he draws long-term conclusions from daily data. One must be acknowledged that the Hungarian economy has performed outstandingly over the past two or three years, and we are also at the forefront of our current performance in the European Union, and the first quarter's lower performance compared to the previous year does not give us the right to conclude that this will continue to happen in the future. Rather, he drew up a better vision that Fidesz would not succeed in increasing and strengthening the economy. I'll tell him you're on the wrong track. Thank you very much, by the way, for Erzsébet Schmuck's opinion. I would like to say to you that your speech was a little controversial, because you did not have much debate, and otherwise you had 20 minutes to speak, and you spoke for nine minutes, and then you did not participate in the debate. [[Erzsébet Schmuck: Yes, you can. He was two minutes old!]] He gave the keynote speech and began by saying that there are few debates, there are several rounds, there are several rounds, there are countries like this, and he did not use half of his speech. But it's just formal, because you made formal comments about the proposal. With regard to minimum wage, he joins the MSZP, does not share the principle that Fidesz is to tax all income, to pay less and less personal income tax, but we have to tax all income. By the way, thank you for your speech because you said that the VAT reduction should be followed only to a greater extent; and you also said that for the protection of monuments, this could be a social solution to support, if our monuments are renewed, more valuable, and our historical values expressed. I think that this is the way to approach this issue, unlike the MSZP, who has forgotten that the corporate tax exemption for the protection of monuments has been introduced by itself and is now criticising it. Dear Parliament, Thanking you for your opinions, overall, I say that I can agree with the ruling parties. I guess this isn't a surprise. Everyone knows that this budget will be good for Hungarian families, because the VAT will be reduced, the total amount of the bill will be reduced in the store, so more will be left in the pocket, more will be left for other services or for the purchase of other products. For the same amount of money, we're gonna be bringing more goods home from the store than we've been through tax cuts. [[12.10]] It'll be good for pensioners, because they're buying, it'll be good for the children, because they get extra tax benefits in personal income tax, and it's good for those who don't have children, because tax cuts affect everyone. It will also be good for businesses, especially small businesses, who will receive many simplifications, investment discounts and job creation benefits for various contributions and taxes. Thank you once again for your speech, and I wish you a good debate in Parliament on tax laws. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-05-13-52	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, The amendments were submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. [[Dr. István Józsa: That's good.]] Is there a problem? [[Dr. István Józsa: No.]] No, there's nothing; it's okay, we can move forward. [[Nándor Gúr: Very good! Very good.]] A general debate on the draft legislation on excise duty will follow until closure. The government referral is T/10539. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, I give the floor to Mr András Tállai, Secretary of State of the Ministry of National Economy, author of the item on the agenda, within a 30-minute time frame. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2016-05-13-53	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Dear Members of Parliament, The government submitted a bill on excise duty on 3 May. The proposal was made with a view to modernising excise legislation. The technical progress that has taken place in the meantime, the practical experience that has come to light, and the problems have justified a rethink of the regulation, resulting in more transparent, simpler and shorter regulation, complete electronicisation, and a more tax-based safeguards system will be established. The administrative burden is significantly reduced. Instead of detailed regulation, a framework law is created, which is flexible for ever-changing economic needs. In order to simplify administration, paper-based registration and reporting will cease in 2017, all information will be transmitted electronically to the authority and the authority will also communicate electronically with taxable persons. Only one type of data should be provided to the authority instead of previous, diverse reporting and no other data should be provided. Real-time electronic data allows the authority to intervene immediately in the business of the farmer, if necessary, in order to avoid tax risk. As with personal income tax returns, excise duty returns will be simplified from 2018. The tax authority shall prepare the tax return which is approved by the farmer and shall correct it if necessary. In order to simplify the regulation, the 47 types of tax warehouses will cease to exist. Next year, there will be only one tax warehouse in which licensees will develop their activities flexibly. In line with historical traditions, the tax warehouse exclusively for the purposes of the payment of wages and the simplified tax warehouse for the production of vine wine remain to ensure more favourable rules. The new safeguards to be met by tax warehouses, adapted to tax risk, will be particularly favourable to SMEs and producers of products in Hungary. In the case of higher risk commercial activities, they may even result in tightening up. The abolition of a tax-free user permit is also a means of simplifying administration. This activity may be carried out by tax warehousekeepers in the future. For reasons of simplified registration and safeguards rules, it will not be necessary for a farmer to obtain a variety of permits to carry out any activity with a tax warehouse permit. A very positive change is the creation of the so-called small-scale wine producing category for small-scale wine producers, for small-scale producers of sparkling wine and sparkling wine, from the wine of their own production. About 95 percent of the wineries will be able to produce and market wine up to a certain quantity once a year to the judge without a tax warehouse permit. Dear House, As of 2017, a mark should be placed on manufactured tobacco as well as on alcoholic beverages, resulting in a serious simplification of the regulation. It is a significant easiness for tobacco manufacturers to remove the commercial selling price, which can be flexible in line with market needs. In order to ensure the same treatment of replacement products, excises are placed around and the filling fluid of electronic cigarettes is considered as a manufactured tobacco, its rate is adjusted to the rate of the other manufactured tobacco, but in this case there is no obligation to register. Honourable Members, The focus of the new types of tax and customs authorities and the new excise law is on the entrepreneur-friendly approach. Guarantee rule from 2017 that the continued financial presence or other additional liability can only be imposed by a decision for a limited period of time. While strict sanctions for abuses remain basically necessary in order to ensure tax revenues, the new law divides the legal consequences into two groups and combines a serious fine with a material disadvantage to the central budget. In the case of a minor infringement which does not endanger budgetary revenues, the fine is maximized but does not have a minimum. A positive change for farmers is that, according to the draft, there will not be a case of excise fines where the law precludes the exercise of fairness, so that the State tax and customs authorities will be able to reduce the fine in all cases of excise fines if, on the basis of an examination of the circumstances of the case, they see reason to do so. Dear House, The EU-wide harmonised tax framework for excise duty, i.e. the regulatory framework, is laid down in EU legislation. The integration of the Energy Taxation Act into the excise law, with virtually unchanged content, serves a greater degree of compliance. In the light of the derogation that expires at the end of 2017, we need to increase the rate of cigarettes and, in this context, the consumption tobacco tax. In order to avoid any negative market developments, the EU tax minimum would be reached in three steps, with the first steps included in the spring tax package, the second and third steps with the entry into force of the new excise duty law on 1 January 2017 and 1 January 2018. Dear Parliament, I believe that the measures contained in the proposal before you are positive both for market players and for the whitening of the economy, for ensuring budgetary revenue. That's why I'm asking you to support the bill. Thank you. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-05-13-54	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, Now we're going to hear the speeches from the lead speaker. First, I give the floor from the Fidesz Group to Member Attila Gelencsér, notary of the Parliament. Here you go.
u2016-05-13-55	Mr President, Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, The excise legislation in Hungary is the 1997 CIII. started with a law long before accession to the EU. As early as the following year, the 1998 LIX was subject to fundamental amendments. Law. Then, in the year before accession, it was replaced by a new law, the 2003 CXXVII. Law No. 1. The 2003 Act already included Community provisions on shipments between Member States and the necessary authorisations. In the twelve years since then, it has undergone a number of amendments, and it is finally ripe for a comprehensive modernisation of the area by creating a new law. New products, new activities, a series of technical innovations require the creation of a new law. The new computer systems allow real-time monitoring and control of the production and transport of excise goods. [[12.20]] What is an important novelty is the introduction of the EMCS excise movement and control system in the EU in 2010, which is intended to monitor the transport of untaxed excise goods with the latest computer systems. The EMCS was introduced in most Member States of the European Union on 1 April 2010 and initially was responsible for monitoring the electronic launch, registration, dispatch and reception of excise goods under suspension. The system can provide real-time information on the status of the consignment, the identity of the consignor and the consignee. This system of movement and control of excise goods therefore produces, transmits, manages, confirms and supervises the documents for the movement of excise goods under suspension. From 1 January 2011, consignments of taxed excise goods have been included in the system, i.e. at Member State level, the electronic launch, registration and control of taxed excise goods released for free circulation from tax warehouses is also carried out in this system. The proposal before us is aimed at modernising excise legislation, making electronic procedures, registers, data reporting more general, while at the same time simplifying the regulation as far as possible, making it more logical, ensuring the possibility of effective anti-abuse action and ensuring competition-neutral treatment of market participants. The legislative proposal annexed to the proposal No 1 sets out, on the one hand, the rules on excise duty, which are consistent with the EU's excise regulatory environment, and, on the other hand, proposes amendments to the laws which are either formal or substantive in relation to excise legislation. Annex 2 to the proposal contains, for information, a draft of the amendments to the Government Decree which will be necessary in the event of the adoption of the bill. The new excise law seeks framework regulation and will be simpler, more transparent and simpler to apply than the 2003 law. The main objectives of the law - I would like to set out about six objectives - are: 1. Expanding the electronic register, which will make it easier for farmers and authorities as well. 2. Minimising opportunities for abuse through up-to-date information available to public authorities. 3. Equalise market access conditions. 4. Reducing the administrative burden for farmers through the introduction of electronic registers. 5. The inclusion of new products, such as electric cigarettes, in excise legislation. 6. Involvement of taxation of natural gas and coal for heating purposes under the excise law. Ladies and gentlemen, Please support this proposal. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-05-13-56	Thank you very much, Congressman. The lead speaker of the MSZP Group is Mr István Józsa. I give you the floor. Here you go, Congressman.
u2016-05-13-57	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, It may seem a celebration if I would like to draw attention to a problem of the proposal which does not seem to be minor, namely that the proposal is not in line with the law, as the proposed bill does not comply with the provisions of the house rules of 10/2014. OGY Decision 29. Paragraph 1 of this Article is the requirement for the regularity of the writings, on the basis of which it must be capable of deciding. The government would not be able to submit a two-various text to the Parliament, in this case with regard to the increase in excise duty on fuels. That's what he put on the Parliament's table in the same motion. In this case, the text is not suitable for decision-making. This should have been rejected by the Speaker of Parliament on his own initiative, because it is not possible to submit a proposal containing variations A and B as a bill. It's against the rules. You have made this mistake when it is not specified what the government is proposing when the excise duty on diesel and petrol should be increased, so that the excise duty on diesel is increased by HUF 10 when the world market price falls below $50 per barrel, or as a B version when it falls below $40 per barrel. Similarly, they want to increase the excise duty on petrol in a rather contradictory way, that they will increase the tax when otherwise the price could decrease. Of course, from a consumer point of view, it could even be understood that if the price is lower, then the government is still loading excise duty on it, and overall, it will not be that much. Only if they didn't do it this way, at a threshold. Now, if you look at the $40 version, as long as the price per barrel is $40.5 per barrel, diesel oil costs HUF 310, then when it drops by $1 and goes below $40, the consumer finds that instead of HUF 310, the fuel will suddenly cost him 320 HUF, because the government's proposed increase in excise duty will take effect. That's the content part. On the other hand, it's formal, so it doesn't correspond to our own parliamentary statute. The other one is not intended to be a spoiler, but it is a problem of content that the bill submitted is unprepared and has been burdened with codification errors. It is enough to think of the collection that has appeared in several organs that the government has made a big mistake, because it is literally wrong to put a wording in the proposal for an amendment to excise duty, and that the ideas of the tobacco industry - which Mr. Secretary of State has also stated that they are gradually seeking to meet the EU requirements, so they are not using the full time available for derogation, but are beginning to gradually increase the tax burden - have not been agreed with any professional organisation, no consumer protection organisation. And it cannot be ruled out that this regulation could be dealt with in another way. The proposal for a simplification of administration, which you have identified as a positive and is generally correct, and the aim of electronicsing, is, in itself, to be supported and supported. [[12.30]] However, this should not result in the relaxation of excise legislation, the opening of loopholes, or the possibility of more abuse than before. 'Cause what was abusing before, let's just think about the cases discovered by András Horváth, former NAV worker, so, there was a contradiction here, there was a great deal of tax evasion. This possibility should not be extended or increased by introducing modernisation. So if a modern electronic system is introduced, which is very important and is, in our opinion, absolutely timely, then its knowledge should be wider and cover possible loopholes better than what has already been done by the regulation. So here we would expect a more careful work in the field of preparation. However, it is highly unacceptable that the Government, through a change in the rate of excise duty on fuels, intends to prevent the otherwise positive effects of the oil price reduction from reaching consumers, car users and transport operators. Why does the government create a barrier when the price of a product can finally decrease? Why are they putting extra tax on it right now? Did they come up with the old abc rule? In the macro economy, it was said that if the budget is in trouble, then the planning office has taken out the abc rule, alcohol, gasoline, cigarettes; they have increased their taxes and see wonders, the revenue has been straightened. It's a rather ancient method, which is reflected in the proposal, at least for us. There is a safety risk that the Government intends only to determine the quality of fuels that can be marketed by the excise trader and the excise retailer in an implementing regulation. The fact that a quality is not defined in the law, but in an implementing regulation, we believe that it carries a safety risk. It can enter into a lower legislation, hand-to-hand... - so the transparency of what quality requirements must be met for each fuel is reduced. In our view, this risk arises in view of the fact that the excise law in force lays down a reference to the standard for fuels. However, the bill mentions the fuel standard only in the justification, but it is not in the norm of the law. So it seems that you do not consider compliance with the fuel standard binding. I hope that you will be able to remedy this to a sufficient degree in the future, but this change carries a significant risk of consumer protection and quality, because a specific reference to the relevant fuel standards has slipped out of the legislative text, the norm. Many believe that tax increases in tobacco products may result in further growth in black trade, increased tobacco smuggling, and increased immigrant tourism to neighbouring countries. According to some estimates, already in the eastern parts of the country, 50 percent of consumed, smoked, used tobacco products have reached consumers through black commerce, which is a terrible, unbearably high proportion. Here it is worth considering the fact that what you have shown, that smoking has been reduced and that this can lead to health improvements, how well it corresponds to reality when you only know about half the turnover of tobacco products. I would like to say a few words in the short time remaining, actually in the voice of recognition, about technical amendments. Among the changing rules, excise procedures, record keeping, data reporting, electronicisation of authorisation and excise security adapted to tax risk, reduction of types of licences, introduction of an excise category, which is a viable concept, and integration of the Energy Taxation Act into the excise law for the sake of uniform EU rules can be highlighted. In the spirit of this amendment, excise duty returns will be prepared by the National Tax and Customs Office as of 2018, and the tax administration will prepare the tax return, which is only approved by the farmer. So, of course, the information is made by the farmer himself, the tax return is prepared by the tax office, and the farmer approves it, corrects it if necessary. From 2017, paper-based record keeping and reporting would cease, and all information would be sent electronically to the tax office. The nearly 7,000 wineries, 95 percent of the wineries, are exempt from almost all administrative obligations of this kind, and from 2017 only the ridges are subject to clearing obligations, once a year from their stock. This means a major simplification. We hope they can use it to provide electronic conditions. Another such simplification is that it will be a tax warehouse instead of the current 47 tax warehouses in which entrepreneurs can carry out the activity notified to the tax office. In line with previous traditions, in order to ensure more favourable rules, two special types would remain, the tax warehouse of the farmers and the so-called simplified tax warehouse for the production of vine wine. Finally, I would like to draw attention to the fact that the government is not trying to state that the MSZP fraction is against the modernisation trends that are set out in this proposal. So we are in favour of this, we believe that simplification is good, but at the same time we call attention to the fact that, in the spirit of simplification, the totality of tax collection should not be reduced, but rather improved. We also draw attention to the fact that this duality, that there is no decision at this stage, but that there are only variations A and B for fuels, should be decided as soon as possible by the majority side. Thank you, Mr. President.
u2016-05-13-58	Thank you very much, Congressman. The lead speaker of the KDNP Group is Mr János Harghitai. Here you go, Congressman.
u2016-05-13-59	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Congressman Józsa, a socialist lead speaker, was calm and often realistic in his assessment surprised me. I'm thinking about the debate on the previous bill, and then your fellow Member spoke in a different tone. But what he said was pleasantly surprising and meaningful. [[12.40]] At a time when we are talking about the excise law, we also need to know that what we have here is obviously also a basis for the budget, and it is also a basis for the revenue side of the budget. No doubt that's true. This comprehensive legislative amendment also serves to introduce and further develop the electronic administration. Obviously, in 98, because that actually goes back to the base of the excise law, then thinking in an electronic administration or e-administration could not - at least in our world - but now it has become very topical. This allows for a simpler administration, a cheaper administration. Thus, the government not only amends the excise duty law from a budgetary policy point of view, but also changes the e-administration objective. This is what Congressman Józsa welcomed. That's the first thought we've had. Twelve years have passed since base year 98. It is time for such a framework law to be drafted. This is also due to the fact that if we adopt a 65-page framework law instead of 150 pages, then, as a matter of fact, paragraphs that may have been published at the level of legislation have been removed from the law and are now subject to an implementing regulation. What the Member has said is that this alone can cause uncertainty, I do not see such a risk that, let us say, the quality parameters of fuels are formulated in a lower law. Taking my common sense out of 100 people, I think 98 buys the fuel, that's us. So far, we have obviously not drooled at those parts of the law when we stopped at a MOL well or an OMV well to see what quality parameters are now in this law. The authority, which can control this, or who is interested in it, because it produces or markets the fuel, is obviously also able to find these parameters in smaller legislation and will adapt to these issues. It is very important that, as a result of the amendment, the keeping of registers, data reporting and authorisations will be simplified and done electronically. From 2018 onwards, the NAV also creates the possibility that excise duty returns can be made by them, as they already do in other areas. From 2017 all paper-based records and data reporting would cease, and all information would be sent electronically to the tax office. That's the first thought you've ever mentioned. Secondly, the novelty of regulation appears in simplification and standardisation. I'm going to mention the oblivion of the 47 tax warehouses we've had so far, and instead, there would be only one tax warehouse. We would still have two special tax warehouses for the production of wine and wine. All wine producers, from my constituency, the Villány people, the wine region in Pécs are obviously welcome news that 95 percent of winemakers would be exempt from all administrative obligations they have had to fulfil, and from 2017 only mountain judges will be accountable for stocks once a year. It is also important to make an amendment, and this is also important for the rule of law, that, from 2017 onwards, the presence of a finance officer, which is obviously often very burdensome for these farmers, can be ordered for a limited period of time and can be challenged by a decision in order to remedy such an order. The Energy Tax Act 2013 will be integrated into this excise Act. I think this will help transparency, and the number of types of licences will decrease. The third round of thought, where Mr Józsa has already expressed criticism or not a criticism, was a legitimate suggestion, which means a change in the price of tobacco, is to be seen here that the government will not increase the price of tobacco through the excise duty law because it would want to generate additional revenue, but that is due to our obligation in the European Union, but this is reflected in a price increase. An important social aspect is to reduce smoking. We've taken steps to do this. The things we've done, you've criticized it a lot. For the record, professional organizations recognize those steps. If we increase the price of cigarettes for any reason, I say that this is the result of European Union law, it is obviously somewhat hoped that consumption will be reduced, and if consumption shrinks, it may also have social policy goals or results that we want to achieve. There is also truth to what you have said that the black economy in this regard can be strengthened by smuggling or such intent. Obviously, the NAV will have tools like they've always been to keep this under control. The e-cigarette would also be included in the excise product circle. This was the third round I mentioned, and perhaps the last one from the most exciting or opposition point of view is certainly exciting, all the changes the government is planning to make with regard to fuels, because here we would actually link the movement of excise duties to the world market price in this respect. I do not see any problem, as far as the House rules are concerned, that, at this stage of the procedure, it has not yet been decided that we would link this excise duty amendment to an oil price of $40 or $50 a barrel, so that the House Rule section that the Member has read is not a violation of the Rules, but if this is the biggest problem of the bill, then we can all be satisfied with this proposal. If the government had a surplus in the price of fuel, the government would have a maximum of 20 billion, and as a country representative, I welcome and agree that this money should be used to renovate the lower roads, and this road network should. I believe that this new framework law, which the government has tabled, will be adopted with good heart by Parliament. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-05-13-60	Thank you very much, Congressman. The lead speaker of the Jobbik Group is Mr Dániel Z. Carpathian. Here you go, Congressman.
u2016-05-13-61	Mr President, Dear House, This is the bill on which it is not really worth drawing on for long, because it is quite clear that, after you have presented something called the budget for tax reductions, you are now making a horrific tax increase, and you are doing so in several items. In one part, this is justified by the European Union's demand from you. Obviously, I do not want to protect tobacco products in this respect, but rather to draw attention to the horrific item relating to fuels. I must also say that the package in front of us is part of the concept that the government seems to give something with one hand and take it away with the other and even with interest and take the same in various forms. It is no coincidence that the budget line of the propaganda industry, which can be used for government communication, has been raised more than ten times above HUF 15 billion, as it will really cost Hungarian citizens to explain this. We see what this package moves us to do, in 2015 when we examine excise duty revenues, we will find a lot of up to 600 billion in fuel, 300 billion in cigarettes, and 100 billion in alcohol and similar products. So a very large market, a very large revenue cake slice, is now trying to amend this proposal, which is in front of us. This year's revenue is HUF 952 billion, there was an income expectation in the budget for this tax, but next year's budget is already estimated at HUF 1030 billion, and this increase is certainly going to be paid by Hungarian taxpayers. It's the increase that families have to make, and it's 77 billion forints. [[12.50]] If we want to go down, I don't even want to say what style of argument it is, we could also say that from an infant to an old man, this apparent tax reduction concept and expectations of the government cost everyone 7700 forints. This raises a surplus of HUF 30,000 for a family of four next year. Let's compare this with the cosmetic VAT allowance we discussed on the previous agenda. You can see that what the government gives with one hand and advertises from very expensive billions, it takes with the other hand. We see where this surplus comes from, the specific tax on cigarettes will increase by more than 6 percent, the turnover-proportional tax by 9 percent, and the excise duty on cut tobacco will also increase by almost 9 percent. But what I really want to talk about is the motion 74. In its section, it peaks, where surprisingly one version of A and B is found by a single Member of Parliament if he examines this bill. There are clear codification errors, 11 are immediately found by any Google user, but we find more in this proposal, and what happens here in an A- and a B-version, when the world market price for oil falls below $40 or $50, apparently even the government doesn't know which scenario it wants to adopt, rape through Parliament, but it doesn't matter. For example, last night the price of Brent crude oil was around 47 dollars, so in the case of variant A, there would already be conditions for a fidesz tax increase, which would mean that the tax on petrol would increase by 5 forints per litre, and the taxes on heating oil and diesel would increase by 10 forints per litre. So it would be good if they decided what they wanted from the Parliament, or what they wanted to carry through with almost two thirds, because there is finally a type of product, a tax where we could see a decrease, because world market processes would point to a reduction in the price of petrol, whereas you would intervene, rape this system, and, where appropriate, even bring together an increase in the final prices for Hungarians. But there's one thing they don't think about, and I really don't want to talk about tobacco right now, that's what they did, and other people do it for me if they just think about fuel for a little bit. The VAT reduction, which is advertised with a loud word, is indeed being extended to products that must be transported from the producer to the business. Thus, where appropriate, the increase in the price of fuels will first be included in the delivery charge for the VAT reduced goods concerned, and secondly, it will then be clearly incorporated into the price of these reduced VAT products, and it would require a very serious economic modeling to assess what the larger item, the discount from the reduction in the type of cosmetic VAT will be, i.e. a reduction of between 6 and 7 percent of the product basket and a reduction of around half or three-quarters of the VAT will be the larger lot, or the inclusion of the increase in the price of fuels in the same products. It is certain that a significant part of their reduction of the cosmetic VAT will also be extinguished, as it can be seen that these counter-reverse processes, as much as it would be cheaper, once again, are cosmetically the product, this concession will be partly taken away by the more expensive fuel price. It is truly outrageous that this could even increase in the long term, but at last there would be a product group where price reductions could be achieved, and you are in fact simply preventing this. The question is that, if the economy is already under control, so we are going against your eulogy, that in the first quarter the economy that you have assumed an increase of 1.7 and 2 percent has increased by 0.9 percent only in the first quarter, under these circumstances, you should consider your entire economic policy concept very carefully. Another figure, compared to the 0.9 percent first quarter increase, if you look at Romania's relevant data, what do you find? 4.3 percent growth, on the other hand, where the justification indicates that internal consumption is the main driver of growth. Let's look at what happened in this country: the normal VAT rate has been reduced from 24 to 20 per cent, and you have never heard of 27 in life, so I would recommend this to the Secretary of State, and the VAT rate for food is moving to 9 per cent. It doesn't move to 5 per cent of the consumer basket, or 27 per cent to 18 per cent, but to 9 per cent. From now on, there is only one question: why in heaven does the government insist on the high level of taxation of consumption, when all economic indicators point to the fact that it is not necessarily possible to achieve economic growth, and you have strangled even the minimum and potential growth that would have resulted from the performance of the Hungarian economy. Now, in the case of a potentially declining product, fuels, petrol, gas oil, this possible reduction will be lost, eliminated by another tax increase, and after this tax increase, to say that this is the budget and concept of the tax reduction, quite simply uncredited. Thank you for your attention.
u2016-05-13-62	Thank you very much, Congressman. The lead speaker of the LMP Group is Mrs Erzsébet Schmuck. Here you go, Congresswoman.
u2016-05-13-63	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, I would like to talk about two points regarding the draft law. Firstly, the government plans to increase excise duty on tobacco products to a large extent by complying with its EU obligations. We can support this basically, since Hungary still has an extremely high rate of people who die as a result of problems caused by smoking. However, raising tobacco prices alone is not enough to reduce smoking, and in many cases this only results in even less food or children in poorer families because parents prefer to buy more expensive cigarettes. Increasing tobacco prices alone does not reduce consumption, which is done by actions and programmes that encourage a healthy life. In addition, the income generated should be allocated to these health-preservation programmes and to the reduction of the damage to smoking. We don't see that as insured either. The excise duty also disappears in the bottomless bag of the budget, as usual, but the financing of health care is not increasing, while new stadiums are rising. Therefore, the increase in tobacco tax on the part of the LMP can only be supported if we see additional measures and funding that are truly able to reduce smoking levels, we see the strengthening of the institutional system that can provide effective assistance in quitting immediately. In the absence of this, the new increase in excise duty is not a public health programme but merely a tax collection. Furthermore, it is feared that the new price increase will increase the already significant black market for tobacco products. Today, smugglers are happy to sell cheap and low-quality tobacco products, which is not only a significant loss to the budget, but also more harmful to health. In parallel with the tax increase, it is therefore necessary to act much more effectively against black trade and impose penalties that are truly dissuasive. Turning to the other substance of the draft law, it is important to point out that the LMP supports the taxation of fossil fuels and the overcoming of non-renewable resources through regulatory instruments. We fear, however, that the system of determining the rate of taxation in the draft, depending on the price of oil, is not actually the beginning of a government change of attitude, but simply the government wants to gain even more tax revenue without causing direct resistance to the population. The system becomes even more opaque, and people will be even less aware that when they buy a liter of petrol, they pay exactly who and how much. Furthermore, in our view, the only way to increase the price of fossil fuels is to spend the resulting revenues not on stadiums or palaces and ultimately not on economically unsustainable nuclear power plants, but on investments that can actually replace the current transport and transport instruments. The revenue from the excise duty on petrol could, in our opinion, be spent only and exclusively on the development of environmentally sound means of transport. Thank you for your attention.
u2016-05-13-64	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, This brings us to the end of the keynote speeches. Since an independent Member is not in the Chamber at the moment, it is now possible to make two-minute speeches. I give the floor to Congressman István Józsa. Here you go, Congressman.
u2016-05-13-65	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I am pleased that Congressman Harghitai is still here, not only because it is surprising that he is monitoring the opposition representatives' comments on the content of the majority side, but I would like to point out to him that it is precisely the reasoning that you have explained that the consumer is not going to look at the gas station on the basis of what legislation, what regulation they are serving him. [[13.00]] This is precisely why it offers a higher level of protection if it is not in a government decree that is easier to rewrite on the basis of otherwise variable lobbying interests, the quality of the product to be served by the current gas station operator, but the fuel quality requirement is in the law itself. By the way, how important it is not what you said, how many pages this bill is, it is in the page number, but not in the norm text, but in the justification. Therefore, there is no widespread obstacle to this by moving the reference to the standard from the justification to the text of the standard. So I would find it more comforting from a consumer point of view if this clarification were to be made. Otherwise, the positives of the proposal, I very much hope that they will come forward, and the opportunities that electronicisation creates will indeed improve the discipline and accuracy of excise duty collection.
u2016-05-13-66	Thank you, Congressman. There will be regular speeches. I would like to take the floor first from the MSZP Group to Mr László Szakács. Here you go, Congressman.
u2016-05-13-67	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, Dear House, This proposal has come before us, and I think that it had to be logical for us to have a proposal in the A- and B-variation, in a way that is not necessarily suitable for decision-making because of unenforceability or borders. On the one hand, of course, we can admit that the government has done a lot of things now, we have a very early budget ahead of us, and this year's budget is being modified, and, of course, I think we should prepare for the final accounts. We also see that, of course, the movement of gas oil and petrol excise duty, contrary to the price of oil, implies only one thing, that an adequate amount of tax is to be collected. So quite simply, if the oil price is lower, the Hungarian motorists, but not least the carriers, those working in community transport and those operating public transport cannot benefit better from this. This basically coincides with the kind of unpreparedness that has caused us to criticize the government several times in relation to the budget, as quarterly figures are available, closing figures are not yet available, and next year's budget is being amended, and therefore the figures or at least even the plans for last year can change, so we believe that this is the same for the excise duty to be collected next year. There is one thing they would like to see for sure, that the right amount of taxes must come in, that simply the positive effects on the world market or on the oil market cannot reach Hungarians, entrepreneurs or those who are not entrepreneurs. In this respect, I believe that we should be able to rethink this proposal in any way. Not to mention the fact that the provisions of the Rules of the House also require that a law be able to take decisions. We see that there was an initiative in this for a five-party discussion. What we have to say, however, is that at some level it is only commendable that the government sometimes consults parties, including opposition parties, and we hope that they did not think that such a proposal, which has such a high level of tax increases, would be supported by opposition parties because you once invited us to a meeting, called a five-party consultation. I don't think that's the way it is. If there are appropriate debates on the amendments and their place is there, then I believe that there is an appropriate way to argue. Of course, five-party negotiations can still be feared, but I hope they did not expect this result from him. What my fellow Member István Józsa said is the positives to which we think that there may even be a positive impact, in those, I think that we all trust, and perhaps here I said the key word that characterizes this whole proposal. Well, you can trust that something will go well, and you can trust that very few things will go wrong. It is likely that appropriate mechanisms of action, including the discussions within the government, will be generated by the failure to examine the appropriate mechanisms of action in this proposal. Have any studies been carried out to analyse the effects of such changes or changes in purchasing habits, the amount, extent of the tax input at any level, or, for example, on tobacco products, oil products, or on the black market or on shopping tourism at any level? What are the situations in which traders who have trusted some form of predictable legislation that also takes into account the mechanisms of these laws? So, what effect does this have on the real economy or the retail sector? You can also talk about oil here, and more importantly, you can talk about the tramps you've created. If we switch to tobacco, let me be a little more concerned about the tobacco factory, since Pécs may now be the only really big employer the tobacco factory is left next to the university, but the university makes a living on public money. The electronics company, Jabil, has recently moved away from Pécs, and since then the biggest employer is still the tobacco factory that has hired 300-400 people in the last year. By the way, most of them still work for the company. In a region with labour market problems, such as Baranya County, I think that worrying about the future of a company with 400-500 employees, but not just worrying, but also acting, is in any way the responsibility of a Member of Parliament. It must be said here that you do not even assess the impact of these market effects on tobacco products, nor have you considered that cigarettes will be cheaper in the EU countries around us, and that this will be shopping tourism that you are promoting. This has so far been a reverse direction, let's say, in the northwest of the country, because they have come over from Austria to buy tobacco, and this trend can turn around, because not far from here, there will be cheaper cigarettes and no border controls in Slovakia, so we will find even within the Schengen area that changes shopping habits. There's a shopping tourism going on, Mr. Excuse me, and the black trade is growing. We have seen this several times when there is a higher rate of excise duty, for example, on cigarettes. Black commerce can once again split a third of this market. It is not good for your favourites, nor for the trams, nor is it good for the distributors, nor is it good for the factories, nor is it good for the workers, especially the consumers, but they are generally not mentioned in these debates. I believe that if this is not good for anyone, then it probably was not properly prepared, that industry negotiations could not be conducted properly either with regard to oil or tobacco. And now we have a proposal with an A-, B-variation - and then we have to let the law enforcement guy decide which one he's gonna use? Or will we decide here how to apply the law? I would also refer to the narrower regulation in the implementing regulation. Perhaps it would be better if legislation with greater transparency could also properly address the detailed rules that this legislation would now leave to the implementing regulation. [[13.10]] We also see that with the excise duty on cigarettes - and I must remember that - they want to reach the EU level right now in 2016 and that it should be achieved in 2018. Again, this proves only one thing - I tell you honestly, perhaps not even that you want to do something wrong - it only proves one thing, it takes a sufficient amount of tax to ensure that the investments, the things you agree with in Hungary, can be financed, and you have also found the source of excise duty, which may otherwise be raised very high, or perhaps we will be the only ones in the world where the price of oil will decrease, and the price of petrol at the gas station will rise. I think that this kind of unpreparedness and this kind of wonder waiting is probably not the right way to bring such factors affecting the market, not least such as excise duty, to the House so unprepared, especially in the B-variation. In fact, I would like to ask whether the mechanisms of action have been examined, whether its impact on the black market has been examined, whether the impact on shopping tourism has been assessed, whether these proposed tax increases have been examined and whether their impact on the labour market has been assessed. I think that by raising the price of cigarettes, there will be no less heart disease in Hungary today, but if excise duty is already collected anyway, it would be much better if the majority of this were to flow into the E-case. And what we have seen is that the increase is not as high as the increase that could be expected on the basis of this proposal, so that I can put it in a slightly broader context. I think that if there is a lack of preparation, if the parties are called for a five-party consultation because the government has not yet been able to reach an agreement, and if we see that this is what they want to legitimise this process, then perhaps it is worth reconsidering. The debate on the budget will continue for a while, and if a new proposal comes in, we will certainly be able to discuss it. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2016-05-13-68	Thank you very much, Congressman. The next speaker is also Mr Imre Horváth from the MSZP Group. Here you go.
u2016-05-13-69	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, As an individual representative, I would like to comment on the subject in some thoughts, representing the interests of voters and the general public. We have also heard from the Secretary of State, Mr Gelencsér, that the aim of the bill is to simplify the system and that all procedures can be conducted electronically. This is a very positive thing, several of my fellow Members have said that this is eligible, but I think that this is part of Article XXI. This is to be expected in the first century to reach countries further west of us in terms of electronic data management. One thing, however, was less said by my fellow members of the Government, and this is the tax increase. There are significant tax increases for the population in two areas. What affects most people is the range of fuels: the rate of excise duty on diesel, petrol and petroleum is linked to the world market price of oil. I think that my fellow Member before me has also said that in the case of gas oil and petrol, this will ring in various areas of the economic sectors, which is related to transport, agricultural products and agriculture. There will be significant additional costs. Where the world market price for Brent oil at the end of a quarter exceeds the statutory threshold, the fuels shall be taxed at the excise duty rate in force. However, if the price is below the threshold, a tax increase will take place: 10 forints per litre for diesel and 5 forints per litre for petrol. If this is the way it's gonna be, it's gonna mean that for a $40 threshold, motorists are gonna fill up more expensive petrol if the price of oil is $39; they're gonna fill up cheaper if it costs $41. Have a gas stationer on his feet in this regard, who can adjust the price tables to this price in time. In addition, the urgent need for this is not visible. In theory, the government wants to spend it on road renovation, when the 2017 budget spends almost HUF 400 billion on road maintenance and road construction. Do we really need 18-20 billion forints from the public's wallet? Smokers must be stimulated by the 29 percent increase, but unfortunately quitting is not so easy. If we add that electric cigarettes will also be taxed, we can be sure that the black market will rise. I think - here you have positively mentioned the career of professional customs and finance officers - there will be a problem for your organisation around Zahony when this black-market cigarette business is about to start. You know, a 29 percent increase for criminals here is actually going to be a 29 percent extra profit. Ladies and gentlemen, It is understandable if we want to hear the government's answer to the questions raised not only in relation to the need for a tax increase, but also in the context of its effects, because for the time being the public has more questions than their answer. Thank you for your attention.
u2016-05-13-70	Thank you very much, Congressman. I will ask my fellow Members if anyone else wishes to speak during the debate. [[No signal.]] I do not see an application; the general debate is closed. I will ask Mr András Tállai, as rapporteur, whether he wishes to respond to what was said in the debate. [[For signal:]] Yes, he does. Mr. Secretary of State has the floor. Here you go.
u2016-05-13-71	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Again, I can thank you for the support speeches and also for those who have put questions or even criticisms about the bill. Allow me to respond to them in the first place. First of all - István Józsa has gone, although I was about to praise him and thank him for the fact that the only opposition Member who can say positive things in Parliament, and that is why he should be thanked for it; looking into the attitude of opposition representatives, his position is completely different from that of the others. It's true that you have to listen to criticism on six points first, and then you have to admit it on the seventh, actually, which is the whole bill. If I may, Mr Józsa, I would now respond to your criticisms, and therefore also to the criticisms of the other Members of the opposition, because opposition representatives have basically moved around two topics, creating the possibility of an increase in excise duty in the bill and raising excise duty on tobacco products. Unfortunately, neither the betterman, nor the LMP, MSZP representatives, nor others, have dealt with the comprehensive draft amendment of the excise duty law, which completely alters the system of excise taxation in Hungary and has a positive impact on these companies, the operators of the economy. So the A-, B-variation - what all the factions have said - is an unusual solution, indeed, that the government is presenting a bill to Parliament by putting it to debate and saying that, yes, it wants to link the amount of excise duty on fuels to the world market, and it wanted to hear a debate about it in Parliament. Well, there was no argument. It was critical, neither the MSZP nor any opposition party expressed their views on which they would otherwise consider beneficial and why. [[Z. Carpathian intervention by Daniel.]] This is a very simple position, especially on the opposition side, that there is no tax increase, that the budget revenue obviously does not excite opposition parties, that is why they are not responsible, so this position is clearly acceptable and understandable. [[13.20]] It's narrow-minded, by the way, but I have to accept it, because there's no responsibility, no thinking. [[Dániel Z. Carpathian intervenes.]] There is one opinion - which, of course, pleases the public, and the viewers like it - so that there is no tax increase, but there is nothing else behind it. There is no reason to look at the fact that we are a member of the European Union, and, for example, for tobacco products and cigarettes, there are EU standards that must be respected as members of the European Union. When the MSZP supported our entry into the European Union, why did it not think that this would mean that excise duty on tobacco products would have to be increased until 31 December 2017? What do you mean, I just don't support it? Those two decisions go hand in hand! When you supported our accession to the European Union, and unfortunately, this decision is linked. I do not say the other two opposition parties because they were not in Parliament at the time, they were unable to express their views on this issue. Returning to criticism: A-, B-variation should be welcomed and expressed, primarily on the basis of a professional approach. The fact that the bill is unprepared, I could also say that I challenge it, and in the name of my coworkers. For a year 20-25 organizations were prepared, no codification errors were made, a technical-calculation error occurred at the time of submission, this is true, which was improved within hours by colleagues, IT experts working in the National Assembly. So it's not true that there are 11 mistakes, that was just written by a press organ. There is a safety risk that fuel quality is classified in a regulation, says István Józsa. I would like to inform him that there is a ministerial decree setting out the quality of fuels, right now, an NFM regulation. In the future, it is precisely about the fact that, compared to the quality criterion in the NFM Regulation, the additional criteria set out in the standard will be included in the Ministry of National Economy's regulation, which does not pose any safety risk, and it is legally still in place. I would also like to report on the five-party discussion that we initiated today at 11:00. We initiated a five-party consultation not on the whole of the law, but on a single point of the law, namely, Rule 155. With regard to §2 which is a pass of a police law, it would be technically modified if this passage could obtain the two-thirds majority. It is simply a technical amendment, an interpretation clause, but unfortunately no opposition party accepted the five-party initiative, which would have been in the Fidesz fraction today at 11:00 a.m. The LMP promised to send an expert, but did not arrive; Jobbik said that it would be busy because it would be here in Parliament during the debate on the tax law, so it could not come to the faction 100 metres; and the MSZP refused to participate in any five-party negotiations. Therefore, it seems that if the opposition parties do not change their minds about voting in this technical phase, they will not change. Ladies and gentlemen, Returning to the question of the increase in excise duty, I would like to say once again that, in the case of tobacco products, it is entirely clear that EU standards are the ones that we need to implement. In the case of excise goods and fuels, an alternative option, which is obviously decided by the Parliament to support or not to support the initiative. I would also like to point out that the price of fuels has decreased significantly over the past two years, by more than HUF 100 where appropriate, and this increase in excise duty does not affect the business community, as it will be paid in the form of a tax reduction if an increase is possible. Thank you very much once again for the supporting contributions and also for those that have made criticisms. I call on the opposition parties to consider their attitude in respect of this passage, and I call on the pro-government majority to support the bill as a whole. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-05-13-72	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that it was possible to present the amendments by 4 p.m. yesterday afternoon. [[Dr. István Józsa: That's what I was laughing about. We're negotiating today, but we had to do it yesterday.]] But since the Member has already received it much sooner, it has not been a problem to prepare these amendments until 16:00 on Thursday, and allow me not to look at this topic in historical retrospect, because I could say something even more interesting, exactly from your time - but this is what it is like. Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, A general debate on the draft law on the foundation of Hungary's central budget for 2017 will follow until its closure. The government referral is T/10536. The Parliament's IT network is accessible to all. I would like to inform you that the proposal is being discussed as a minority item by the Parliament. I would also like to remind you that the Parliament has decided to negotiate the general debate on this proposal within a five-hour time frame. I'll let you know the time frame. The time frame is divided into 103 minutes for the Fidesz Group, 57 minutes for the MSZP Group, 47 minutes for the KDNP Group, 51 minutes for the Jobbik Group, 62 minutes for the LMP Group, and 11 minutes for the independent Members. First, I give the floor to Mr Péter Benő Banai, Secretary of State of the Ministry of National Economy, author of the item on the agenda, within a 30-minute time frame. Take a breath, Mr. Secretary. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2016-05-13-73	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Ladies and Gentlemen, The draft law on Hungary's central budget for 2017 clearly shows that the aspects determining our work have not changed, but that job creation, support for families and economic recovery remain among the most important objectives of the government. The bill proposes to amend 42 laws in order to achieve the objectives set out above. In addition, the law also contains a deregulation package aimed at reducing the overregulation of the legal system and repealing certain laws or legal provisions that are no longer suitable for legal action. This is why we are proposing to repeal certain provisions that do not require legislative regulation in order to bring them to a lower level of legal resources. Please allow me to highlight some of the proposals for amendments. The amendment of the Act on Hungary's economic stability relates mainly to the authorisation of local government's debt-generating transactions and concerns their relevant rules. The changes make it even more clear which operational loans are necessary and for which the government does not require its prior consent to the conclusion of debt-generating transactions. It also becomes more specific that the authorisation of a municipal guarantee or guarantee must take account of the provisions of the Public Finance Act and that the authorisation granted by the Government relates to a contract in the reference year. [[13.30]] The amendment also extends the authorisation obligation to the debt-generating operations of companies wholly owned by municipal companies. Further changes to the Act on Hungary's economic stability are the special authorisation given by the Government Debt Management Centre Zrt. for the technical uniform management of public expenditure to be incurred in financing the expansion of the Paks Nuclear Power Plant. This is justified by the fact that the project is partly financed by direct public borrowing. The bill concerns several aspects of the provisions of the Public Finance Act. The adoption of the Finance Act in spring allows the duality of the detailed budgets underlying the implementation of the budget to be replaced by a single rule in the central system of public finances. The amendment reduces the administrative burden for central budgetary bodies and removes the two-month transitional period for the implementation of the central budget. As we know, the government's primary objective is to combat tax evasion. One of the tools for this is to make it impossible for companies with an opaque ownership structure to receive any form of allocation from the budget. This is the purpose of the amendment extending the prohibition of the conclusion of contracts with non-transparent, i.e. offshore organisations, or the payment of payments to such organisations, to aid granted under the municipal sub-scheme. In order to protect public funds, the scope of the deletion of the tax number as a sanction for breaches of the rules on aid from the central budget has been extended. On the basis of the amendment, the so-called account holders' entities outside the treasury, as defined by the Public Finance Act, may be exempted from the obligation to keep their accounts with the Hungarian Treasury. The proposal also states that, except for certain exceptions, account holders outside the treasury should not be able to make use of their temporarily free funds by purchasing sovereign debt, since it is not justified that public funds received from public funds should be rolled out and interest income realised by those organisations. The transparency and traceability of the change in public debt is reinforced by the fact that the government must present not only the level of public debt but also the change in public debt. In addition, the deadline for the submission of the closing act to Parliament will be amended, which will allow more time to be available to the data subjects to verify the accounts on which the accounts are based. Dear House, Allow me to refer to section II of the bill. I should also like to say a few words about the important further amendments to the law in chapter 1 of this Official Journal. First of these, I would like to refer to the law on the status of civil servants. The bill clarifies the rounding rule applied in the setting of salaries and repeals the civil servant salary table, as it will be re-established by the Central Budget Act as of 1 January 2017. Older people's pensions are pension benefits for persons who are over the age of retirement, but who are not at all retired, or who have very low pensions. In order to improve the living situation of elderly people in need, we propose a 5% increase in elderly people's benefits in 2017 by amending the Social Administration and Social Benefits Act and thereafter by the rules on pension increases. By amending the provisions on home assistance and personal care, the government proposes that the number of persons entitled to assistance and care should be included separately in the case of home assistance. The bill also sets out the number of persons entitled to social assistance and personal care in the case of home assistance and makes it clear that, in the case of an association, the local government under the association agreement has the right to establish a decree on benefits. We also clarify the rules on the possibility of withdrawal of admission as regards home assistance. By amending the Law on Cemeteries and Funerals, we propose that in the future the funeral service provider carry out the administration of the deceased, thereby reducing the burden on the relatives of the deceased and the burden on the health care institution. An essential element of the regulation is that this activity is to be provided free of charge by the funeral service provider, so that the financial burden on funerals is not increased. The amendment prohibits the undertaker from entering into a contract with the buryer with an obligation to pay security in the event of withdrawal from the contract. In order to compare the prices of funeral service providers and to reduce prices, the bill provides for the possibility of charging only statutory charges for the service. Bearing in mind the promotion of fair management, the amendment will allow those whose company ceases due to public debt to start a new business in the same burial service area. Since the improvement of the quality of service is in everyone's common interest, the amendment of the law also requires that in the future the head official of the funeral service should have an adequate qualification. It is proposed that the National Assembly set the date for the introduction of a social funeral on 1 January 2019. [[Dr. István Józsa intervenes.]] If the proposal is adopted, there will be a further two years of preparation for local governments, churches and other cemeteries to create the conditions for a social funeral. By amending the Air Transport Act, we propose that HungaroControl Hungarian Air Traffic Management Service Ltd., while fully respecting the safety of passengers and of aviation in general, be able to provide air traffic control, flight information and alarm services at international airports in Hungary, where this is justified by a large number of passenger traffic of at least 100,000 passengers per year. The beneficiaries of regular child protection benefits receive in-kind grants of HUF 5800 on an occasional basis twice a year as a basic amount. With the planned amendment of the Child Protection and Child Services Act, we propose to increase the amount of the basic amount to HUF 6,000. For children entitled to regular child protection benefits, for whom there is a disadvantage, a cumulative disadvantage, we propose to grant an increased amount of HUF 6500 instead of the current HUF 5800. A differentiated increase in the level of aid is intended to improve the targeting of supply, thus helping children in the most difficult situation. In the case of the associated provision of the child welfare service, the proposal provides that the local government of the association agreement is obliged to maintain the child welfare service and to establish a regulation in that context. At the same time, we wish to make it clear with this amendment that the maintenance of the children's welfare centre can only be a local government. We are also proposing to amend certain provisions of the Motion Picture Act. According to this, the role of the Hungarian National Film Fund would be extended with the support of public authority tasks related to the use of public space and film training. The latter is necessary to increase and preserve the values of Hungarian film culture, to develop the Hungarian film industry and to increase its competitiveness in international terms. These goals will also be achieved by providing the Film Fund with real professional knowledge, valuable skills in both domestic and international terms, a human resource with considerable theoretical and practical experience for the Hungarian film industry through high-quality film training. The amount of revenue expected from the film training contribution, taking into account the payments made by Hungarian film producers and film-making companies performing foreign orders, is approximately HUF 200 million per year. It is proposed that this revenue will be awarded by the Film Fund to film training organisations through its tender system. In line with the tasks undertaken to train professionals with a knowledge of cinematography in both domestic and international fields, the proposal provides that film-making producers and producers contribute up to HUF 15 million to the financing of the film education system in the long term. [[13.40]] The amendment also aims to meet the professional expectations of film-producing and film-producing enterprises to contribute to the transfer of accumulated film-based knowledge by committing themselves to the employment of a limited number of trainees, thereby facilitating the acquisition of the necessary practical experience for those involved in film-based training, complementing the forms of education provided by the educational institution, in particular for the acquisition of theoretical knowledge. The proposed amendment also amends the rules of procedure for authorising the use of public space for film shooting. The lesson of the system currently in place is that the management of these matters is a profiler for government agencies, which, in addition to the application of public law, implies a certain knowledge of the film industry and requires an intermediary role between the owner and the film company. The Film Fund is the most appropriate way to provide this, and the proposal therefore creates the possibility for the Film Fund to set up, as its own organisational unit, its office for handling matters relating to the use of public spaces for film shooting, in the form of government windows. This office is proposed to take over from government agencies the handling and handling of requests for shooting that film producers have had to submit to government offices and to act as a public authority in the case of state-owned real estate. Ladies and Gentlemen, The bill amends the law on the more efficient operation of publicly owned companies. As regards the amendment, it should be pointed out that in the context of responsible management, publicly owned companies may operate within the constitutional framework of freedom of information in accordance with the laws governing the disclosure of data of general interest and that freedom of information should not disproportionately restrict national interests. However, access to data of general interest is not an unlimited fundamental right, and in view of this, it is possible that, in view of certain specific objectives, the legislator restricts the possibility of access to data of general interest at legal level, bearing in mind the principles of necessity and proportionality. In accordance with the fundamental principles and directions set out in the decisions of the Constitutional Court, the amendment makes it possible not to disclose the data, contracts, pre-contractual decisions relating to the activities of publicly owned companies and the undertakings they manage, or any other information that is classified as business secrets. The limitation related to the activity applies only to state-owned companies ensuring the security of the country's energy supply, while the provision on the ability to know the business secret applies to all publicly owned companies, but of course only if the conditions laid down in the law are fulfilled. We also recommend a change in the jurisdiction of the courts. The seat of the Ráckeve District Court will be transferred to Szigetszentmiklós and its name accordingly will be changed to Szigetszentmiklós District Court, but its area of competence will remain unchanged. Furthermore, according to the proposal, Fejér County is transferred from the jurisdiction of the Metropolitan Court to the Győr Courtboard, so that the customer turnover and turnover of each judge board becomes more even. The bill also proposes changes to certain provisions of the National Public Education Act, which are mainly related to the draft law on the central budget for 2017. When establishing the average wage-based support, it is appropriate to apply a sector-neutral rule based on opening hours at the place of assignment rather than a child's stay in kindergarten. We recommend a minimum daily opening period of at least 8 hours. Rehabilitation contribution has been stable since 2010. At the time of its introduction, it was comparable to the minimum wage at that time, as it was about thirteen times its monthly rate. Given that the minimum wage has continuously and greatly increased since 2010, while the amount of the contribution has remained unchanged, we propose to correct the rate of the rehabilitation contribution to encourage integrated employment of people with disabilities, while linking it to the minimum wage. Our aim is also to ensure that the measure does not impose too much burden on the organisations concerned by the obligation to pay, so the bill makes a proposal of ninefold. The mandatory level of employment remains unchanged, thus encouraging the employment of workers with disabilities in the primary labour market. In the framework of the amendment of the Labour Code, in accordance with the Constitutional Court's decision, we propose that the rules governing the possible proceedings of the employer be laid down in the event of notice following termination. In addition, the proposal re-establishes Law I of 2012 on the Labour Code 140. In the context of the regulation of the so-called equivalent compensatory rest period in accordance with the provisions of the European Union directive on certain aspects of labour organisation. It is proposed that, if the employer has been given less than 11 hours of consecutive rest, the daily rest period after working under this shorter daily rest period and the shorter rest period together should be at least 22 hours to compensate for rest periods less than 11 hours. The bill also clarifies the rules for daily rest in relation to the fulfilment of the obligation to ensure at least 7 or 10 hours of daily rest at the beginning of the summer and winter time calculation, by determining the level of daily rest to be ensured. Dear Parliament, The bill is set out in Annex III. In the context of the central budget, Chapter III of the Wesselényi Miklós Price and Internal Water Protection Compensation Fund and the Integration Fund of Cooperative Credit Institutions are proposed to be abolished by 31 December 2016. The termination of the Wesselényi Miklós Ár és Belvízvédelmi Indemnification Fund is justified by the limited number of persons who have a contractual relationship with the Fund and by the fact that today the activities of the Fund can be adequately replaced by the property insurance schemes offered by market participants. According to the proposal, it will no longer be possible to conclude a new contract, but the contracts currently in force will not be terminated, the contractual relationship with the Hungarian Treasury will continue. The funds of the winding-up fund shall be entered in a chapter-based appropriation for this purpose and the payments of the contracting parties shall also be entered in this chapter-based appropriation. We are proposing to abolish the Integration Fund for Cooperative Credit Institutions by the end of the year because this fund is no longer in place, and so there is no reason to maintain any further legal requirements for it. [[Dr. Lajos Szűcs will take his place in the notary seat.]] Dear Parliament, In conclusion, many of the provisions of the bill submitted and presented to us form a close union with the bill on Hungary's central budget for 2017 and serve as a basis for its implementation and effectiveness. That is why I ask you to discuss the bill and accept it later. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-05-13-74	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, It is now time for the speeches by its representatives. In the first round, as usual, the speech will be given by the lead speaker, but the time frame is 20-20 minutes. I give the floor first from the Fidesz Group to Mr Tamás László. Here you go, Congressman.
u2016-05-13-75	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, The government submitted the budget this spring as well, the general debate of which, as known, took place yesterday and the day before yesterday, so this House must discuss with the budget the bill on the foundation of Hungary's central budget for 2017. The motion before us amends a number of legislation, the main aim of which is to harmonise legislation in order to ensure that the budget, tax laws, are consistent and implemented smoothly. Allow me to explain some of the important points of the bill without the need for completeness. The Secretary of State spoke very carefully about almost all of them, so I will probably just rely on one list. [[13.50]] On the one hand, the amendment of the Act on the Economic Stability of Hungary settles or amends the borrowing conditions of the local governments, or gives authorisation to the Government Debt Management Centre Zrt. the technical uniform management of the public expenditure to be incurred in financing the expansion of the Paks Nuclear Power Plant. With the amendment of the Public Finance Act, the rules on closing accounts also change. For the sake of transparency, the government must present not only the government's debt but also the change in the government's debt. According to the proposal, the Aht. This amendment is justified by the clearance of the European Commission's financial resources, which are less than 5% of the last EU funds due to Hungary in the context of the use of grants for the 2007-2013 European Union programming period, given that these ex post amounts will no longer be used for the benefit of the programmes after the completion of the accounting period. By amending the Social Administration and Social Benefits Act, the benefits for elderly people in need will increase by 5 percent in 2017 and thereafter by 5 percent in accordance with the rules on pension increases. As we have heard, the Law on Cemeteries and Funerals is also amended in order to ensure that in the future the funeral arrangements for the deceased are carried out by the funeral service provider, thereby reducing the burden on the relatives of the deceased. It is important to note that this activity must be provided free of charge by the undertaker. Furthermore, the prices of funeral service providers will be comparable, since only the statutory fees can be charged during the service. The bill amends the law on registered partnerships, which allows other laws to provide for different rules for registered partners compared to the marriage of the spouses. The submission also regulates the lack of access to information relating to business activities. The legitimate interest in keeping business data and information secret may also exist for companies with State-owned or majority public participation. The broad interpretation of freedom of information which is not compatible with the social function of the economy should not unduly restrict legitimate national interests. With the planned amendment of the Child Protection and Child Welfare Act, the regular child protection discount will be increased from 5800 to 6000 HUF as basic aid. At the same time, for children entitled to regular child protection benefits for whom there is also a disadvantaged, cumulative disadvantage, an aid of HUF 6500 will be insured as an increased amount of aid. By supplementing the Law on the Hungarian Chamber of Agriculture, Food Economics and Rural Development, the bill designates the Chamber of Agriculture as proof of origin for agricultural products and foodstuffs. The government intends not only to reduce the number of background institutions, but also to review the number of separate public funds, so the Wesselényi Miklós Price and Internal Water Protection Compensation Fund and the Integration Fund of Cooperative Credit Institutions will cease on 31 December 2016. Not least, the bill also implements technical deregulation of certain legislation. In this context, it repeals certain laws or laws which have already been implemented, as well as provisions which do not require legislation. I think that the many measures listed above clearly guarantee the regularity and legality of the 2017 budget. That is why I consider it important and ask you to examine and support the articles which the bill intends to amend. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-05-13-76	Thank you very much, Congressman. The lead speaker of the MSZP Group is Mr Sándor Burány. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2016-05-13-77	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, The first question we need to ask about this bill is what to call you. I'm sure his address is inaccurate. The title of this bill is that such a number of legislative proposals on the basis of Hungary's central budget for 2017. If we look at the contents, we can see that it's the least of all about it. It is itself a comedian to talk about the basis of the budget during this period, even if, by the way, each section, each paragraph, is about this. It is a comic, honourable Members, because this year's budget changes will be discussed at the same time as next year's budget bill. How is this year's budget, in itself, justified that it should be amended already in May? How was that justified last May? How did the legislative proposals at that time ensure predictability, predictability, even that this budget bill could last more than a year without amendment? He couldn't stand it! Once again, if every step of this bill, every paragraph of it, were actually about the foundation of next year's budget bill, the fact in itself that this year's budget should be amended at the same time calls into question the government's foresight in terms of the budget. [[Adam Mirkóczki will be replaced in the notary seat by Dezső Believing.]] But let's look at it from the point of view of the content, and not even looking at whether the content is acceptable or unacceptable in itself. What does the amendment to the law on cemeteries and burials have to do with the foundation of the budget bill? It's definitely morbid. But to be more cheerful, what does the change of the motion picture law have to do with the foundation of next year's budget bill? I hope that after the previous morbid theme, you can even make comedies - I hope you will - in terms of moving images, but if you change the budget for this year, you will be able to take a moving picture of the next year's bill, it will be more tragic comedy than comedy. In itself, it is also questionable if we are already talking about the foundation of whether the government acted correctly in the preparation process. Two very important leaders came to me as chairman of the Committee on Budgets. Tünde Handó wrote meaningful comments on 11 May, addressing his letter to me - we are talking about the President of the National Court Office - and Attila Péterfalvi, President of the National Authority for Data Protection and Freedom of Information, made objections to me in his letter. In addition to the content objections, the common element of both letters is that the proposals submitted to Parliament differ substantially from those submitted to them for their own opinion. In other words, these important institutions and their leaders were deceived by the government, sending them a text of different content to comment than they then submitted to the Parliament. Therefore, both presidents had only one choice: to send their comments and objections to the Parliament by letter. I am the recipient of this letter, but as chairman of the Committee on Budgets, of course, I have made sure that the public of Parliament and the public can know these content and formal objections, and we have sent these letters to all my fellow Members. And then I could also ask what the legal provisions on registered partnerships have to do with the foundation of next year's budget law. How does this base economic growth or anything related to the budget bill? In fact, if we are to be good faith, then all that has happened is that on the government, approaching the end of the Parliament's spring session, a kind of mid-life crisis has taken over. And all the laws that came into being in the government, all the intentions that they were about to implement before the end of the Parliament Spring Session, were gathered together into a bill and presented to Parliament in a gigantic salad law. And this has been called the draft law on the basis of the budget law, since the government has such an obligation to submit a draft legislation on this matter. [[14.00]] Why should we be in good faith when we see that the government hides its true intentions in various laws, which it wants to do in the first place? And from this point of view, if we are to be very precise, then the name of this bill should be changed. In fact, this is not a bill on the foundation of Hungary's central budget for 2017, but a bill on the basis of encryption. That's the real purpose of this salad law. Let's look at some minor comments. Let's start with registered partnerships. This is not linked to the budget at all - this is one of them. The other: it is completely incomprehensible to me why Fidesz and the government are not satisfied with the principle of living and letting them live. It is perfectly right that a government should implement or implement its important values with different forms of support. It's okay. It is right that the government has a definite idea, even if it is debatable, about families, and it is okay to consider it important to support families, it is true that in practice this means supporting wealthy families, of course, but now I do not open this debate, it is okay, if in itself it is important for Fidesz and the government to support the family, then it seeks to provide support in various legislative proposals - whether well or badly, that is a different question. But why don't you leave people alone? So why does anyone who doesn't fit into this have to be punished for it? Isn't it enough that you support those who fit in? By changing the legal provisions on registered partnerships, you exclude these people from the possibility of inheritance and the possibility of various tax incentives that have been granted to them so far. Why should they be punished for living by different standards than you consider important? Why can't you just leave them alone? Why should they be punished? At the trial of a previous bill, I referred to the fact that it is the same with their view of society. Of course, I dispute the view of society that they primarily support the most sought after. If you want, you can support it. But why should those who earn little be punished in return? That's what you guys do all the time. There is a model that you would like to support, even if this model is controversial, but even the intention itself should not make a big deal. But they're not satisfied with it, they're punished by anyone who gets out of it. If they want to support the rich, they will not be satisfied at the same time by reducing their taxes, but will immediately punish those who earn little by raising their taxes. If they want to support families, they will not be content to support families in some way, even if it means primarily supporting wealthy families, but who, in some respect, has been left out of this family model and has enjoyed some kind of legal advantage so far, they will be punished by eliminating these legislative benefits. In addition to the fact that this has nothing to do with next year's budget bill, this mentality, that you are constantly violating the principle of living and letting live, and who, in some ways, you do not like it, does not like it, is quite simply amazing. But let's get to the encryption; well, it's not their first attempt. I hope the government spokesperson will say: "But it didn't work." It is more than charming that Tünde Handó himself objects to these provisions, these encryption efforts, and notes that, on the basis of the unbroken practice of the Curia, the data contained in the proposal must be issued by companies managing public money. Your eyes are fond of the Curia's unbroken practice. Therefore, provisions have been tabled in this salad law that basically go beyond what has already been tried. This bill, if adopted unchanged by the Parliament, will in practice lead to the absence of any important economic information in the energy fields, which will remain secret, and in all other state and municipal companies will essentially be left to the conscience of the data controllers to disclose. They will be responsible for what is acceptable in terms of proportionality. In practice, they even went beyond what the Constitutional Court had deleted in relation to the foundations of the Hungarian National Bank. There's a cryptography effort coming out of our eyes, which has only one purpose, so that the data of public interest that has been embarrassing for the government in recent times after they've been made public... - about the state companies, so to speak, shouldn't happen again. In the first place, the data owner may have, as a matter of fact, a statement of what is known, what is not. And that's basically encrypting the business in the state companies. If, by the way, these operations were immaculate, we'd say, well, it's not nice, but... There's no such thing as an impeccable reputation. What we see is that public money, wherever possible, loses its public money, the public wealth, wherever possible, loses its public wealth - if it otherwise depends on the leaders appointed by you. Ladies and Gentlemen, To sum up, this gigantic package of legislative proposals is not really intended to lay the foundations for next year's budget law. There can be no purpose, when the government itself, by amending this year's budget law, proves that it cannot foresee a year. The aim of this bill is that everything you are preparing for will be presented to Parliament quickly so that we can adopt it before the end of the spring session. And its main objective, hidden in detail, is to encrypt the operations that take place in public companies. This is quite simply amazing and quite simply unacceptable. Thank you very much. [[Dr. István Józsa applauds.]]
u2016-05-13-78	Thank you very much, Congressman. The lead speaker of the KDNP Group is Mr János Harghitai. Here you go, Congressman.
u2016-05-13-79	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, As regards the difficulties of negotiating the draft law before us, I agree with Mr Sándor Burány here in part, but this is due to the specific features of the law. Because a set of laws establishing a budget clearly amends countless laws in order to base the budget. Here we are now attempting to amend 80 laws. For the record, such laws have always been faced with this task and a number of laws are repealed. It's hard to break a law like that, no doubt. But as the government does here, it's commendable. Because in the first three chapters, the laws which base the budget law on substance, and in the fourth chapter separately, so that it can be managed not only for the Member of Parliament, but also for the legislator, provide legal provisions where it makes clarification of the content, or clarifies or proposes to delete certain parts of the legislation due to its deregulation obligations. [[14.10]] So what I expected - this time the government, not denying the difficulties of the genre, but we must rise to this task - is to present this legal salad law in such a way that it is transparent for us too, and I will say it once again, which is even more important, it will also make it easier for law-abiding people, because it is presented in this structure. That we have to negotiate this in a separate law? Well, we remember the time when this was part of the budget laws, and then a Constitutional Court made a different provision, and since then, the Public Finance Act, which was passed by the Parliament, obliges the current government to present it to Parliament in this form. So I think that if we are to be realistic, then the way we are presented cannot be criticised for the law. To argue that, moreover, this package of laws does not base the 2017 budget because we are also amending the budget currently in force, so it is difficult to follow these contexts. I do not consider it a tragedy if an approved budget is amended more than once by the government, because the government cannot foresee everything. I say to Mr Burány that, let us say, what tasks the asylum mystery is putting the government ahead of, we could not have foreseen that very much; you had foreseen when you said that this was a false problem. [[Sándor Burány: You don't have to submit it if you don't see it!]] Today they are suffering from this sentence, but we will always confront you with that sentence. If we need to create resources for such an unexpected and barely overcoming task, then we will enter the budget and amend the budget law. As I said, 80 amendments to the law here would be pointless to deal with all of them, so I do what my fellow Members do, or what I think is important in some way, to mention it, or what may affect many people. The local government world is important to me, and I would therefore like to mention the amendment concerning local governments. After the government took over the incredible debt burden of the municipalities, and the government consolidates this great debt from one centre - which we approved then, and we have seen the meaning of it ever since - the government has been absolutely right to ensure that this debt does not occur again. Local governments have already regulated and will continue to regulate the take-up of operational loans, i.e. the government has set certain limits to the municipalities, and this is explained by the fact that such a government licence applies to the reference year. I think it is important that the system also becomes more flexible, because so far it has been possible to modify the transaction's duration or payment obligation, but now it is also included in the law's text that the purpose of the transaction can also be changed. What is important in addition to these otherwise important content changes: the legislator extends the obligation to authorise companies owned by a 100% municipality. As far as financial flows from the Public Finance Act are concerned, it has been prohibited to conclude contracts in public finances that have taken place with opaque organisations, and in the future this ban will also apply to the municipal subsystem. The question that concerns many people, which means amending the Social Administration Act, is that the amount of benefits for elderly people would increase by 5 percent in 2017. The following is what I would like to say, and this also gives me the opportunity to respond to Mr Burány's criticisms, the amendment set out in the law on cemeteries and funeral services. It's an area you inevitably encounter in your life. When we use funeral services, we live in difficult moments, so we can only regulate this area well, not badly. I think that the amendments that are being made here will certainly improve the regulation of this area when the legislator says that the burdens that we have already imposed on health institutions - I am thinking about the administration of the deceased, the carrying out of various funeral services - will be passed on to the service provider in the future. It's a correct change. This is also where I find the link that Congressman Burány has not found as to why this 2017 budget is based. At present, hundreds of state institutions have done this job well or badly, but it is certain that they have engaged in staff and energy, if you will. In the future, this task belongs to the undertaker. As part of the funeral services, this amendment covers a number of areas and provides an opportunity, not only for the possibility, but also for the government to be authorised to set an official price here, which it clearly wishes to use. So if hundreds of state institutions did one job yesterday, I'll say it again, which so far has obviously had budget coverage in the budget of the institution, and they don't have to do that in the future, then it's obvious to me that this is related to the 2017 budget. The same is the other area that I did not think was so exciting to mention, but if Mr Burány mentioned the provisions on the Film Fund, namely the relationship between the rules on licensing of public use with the state budget, I would remind Mr Burány that so far the government offices have done this task, namely the regional government agencies, the county government offices. Those who know these offices know that there was not always a suitable specialist for this special knowledge, and we think that it may not be appropriate to create the conditions for this at every government office. If we do such tasks at each government office, then I can make the same statement as I said earlier in the case of funeral services: this requires staff, the employment of staff requires wages, and therefore has budgetary implications. In the future, these tasks, carried out by government agencies, will be carried out through a government window with a special small institution of the National Film Fund, if you will, and this is obviously rational because it can bring budget savings. As I said, it is pointless to bring up all the laws, and here to mention again how the law or the legislative change in question relates to the 2017 budget. The criticism that we have heard here, that the government has other intentions by submitting this law, I simply cannot interpret it. The KDNP fraction supports the modification of the salad law. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-05-13-80	Thank you very much, Congressman. The lead speaker of the Jobbik Group is Mr Dániel Z. Carpathian. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2016-05-13-81	Mr President, Dear House, It is very difficult for us to digest the knowledge-style government slogans that try to explain the inexplicable. It's not a budget salad, it's not a package that should be. It's actually something around the encryptions, a multilayer protective shell that tries to hide the essence of what the package in front of us is about. It is clear that state-owned energy companies, business, financial, technical, commercial, market, and virtually any data they provide will be released under no circumstances for a period of five years, and that within 30 years the data mass that they allegedly seek to hide from us in the interests of national security, central financial and external security would be disclosed only on the basis of the assessment of that company. The fact is, such an inexplicable, indefinable, indescribable reason will actually be able to hide anything from the public. [[14.20]] It shouldn't have anything to do with a salad setting up a budget. And, of course, I could now highlight a great deal of this, which is, where appropriate, about workers in stand-by jobs, because there is clearly a negative situation for them, too, that if a person was assigned to regular working hours on Sundays, normal working hours would not, in principle, be allocated to him by the Saturday immediately preceding, this was currently the legislation in force. This part of the legislation has so far clearly ensured that if a person was assigned on such a Saturday, it would have to be regarded as extraordinary working hours, so that the employee was entitled to a Sunday allowance. We've been having a lot of fights about this lately. This is exactly what the government is planning to do, this special opportunity for Sunday's bonus, which would also have nothing to do with the foundational package that we should discuss here in substance, and which would otherwise be desperately needed. What we see here is that public-owned companies are practically trying to take them out of the scope of freedom of information, all the other things that have been put into this area, are texts so that this is not the case, and when all this encryption process is being carried out in the interests of national security, central financial and - amazing - foreign affairs - at least that is the reason - it is clear that they do not actually want to disclose any data regarding the management, contracting or public-law transactions of public-sector companies concerned, which is unacceptable and outrageous in itself. At the same time, we also see other interventions and rapes taking place here recently with regard to the market economy. If we look only at the Hungarian National Bank and its foundations, it is not enough to mention that some HUF 200 billion has been applauded for the purchase of sovereign debt, which, in contrast to what rules it is against, we leave this, because we have explained many times within the walls, but this can manipulate and influence even the data relating to public debt in substance, because if these transactions take place before the investigation period and then turn these sources back to their original location, it can indeed manipulate a great deal, not only the statistics, but also the conclusions of the investigation period. And I note, as a last thought, that bringing provisions on social burial here is quite simply impertinent. I suggest you forget about this madness, the deadlines, and so on. In previous years, I have been very concerned with the legacy of Hungarian ancestors, and if anyone chooses this type of burial in the countryside in Hungary or in a Hungarian village, I claim that it should be possible for him to, say, accompany the deceased on his final journey, and that all possibilities should be provided if this is done voluntarily, on his own initiative, by the decision of the family. But to exercise any coercion in this area is a level of violence in the life of a Hungarian family, which would simply be unacceptable on your part. Therefore, my suggestion is not to push deadlines, not to refine the insurmountable, but to forget this madness, as it is, up to the point that if someone else is voluntarily open to participate in the last way in the case of their own family member, then make it possible to create a framework for it, but only on a voluntary basis, and to forget the coercion and violence at last from similar, otherwise very intimate and very intimate relationships. Thank you for your attention. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2016-05-13-82	Thank you very much, Congressman. The lead speaker of the LMP Group is Mrs Erzsébet Schmuck. Here you go, Congresswoman.
u2016-05-13-83	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, With regard to the salad law on which the budget is founded, we have to say the same thing we said in the tax laws. Although the government claims that the budget and related laws are created in the spring because of predictability, this only manifests itself in the fact that the result will be predictablely flawed. It is no coincidence that the established system in most countries is that the tax laws, the budget and the underlying salad law will be negotiated for several months after the adoption of the previous year's accounts. It is very important that what is accepted by one can be incorporated into the other, so that there is also an opportunity to reject certain proposals. This is not the case in Hungary today. Even though there are proposals for amendments to the salad law, there is almost no possibility for them to be included in the budget. That is, the government presumably assumes that there will be no change compared to what it has submitted, and that it will pass the Parliament, by the majority of the pro-government votes. And, unfortunately, they're right about the pro-government vote. As far as the content of the law is concerned. Paragraph 253 of Section 85 is clearly more than to allow for consultation, discussion and responsible changes and decisions to be made within a week. But the government, as we see it, doesn't have that purpose, I mean, that Parliament should function in a normal and responsible manner. There are a number of technological changes in section 85. There are minor positive changes in the financing of certain social benefits and in labour law regulations for parents with children, although mainly under pressure from the European Union. At the same time, there are a number of stages, which are harmful or unacceptable changes. These are the ones we're taking into account, because of the shortness of time, dealing with only the most serious cases. The most revealing measure of the bill is the encryption of the management of public energy companies for 5-30 years in the 21st century. Section 2 and Section XXI In the century. On the basis of the proposal limiting the freedom of information, no relevant management information in the energy field would be available, and for all other public and municipal companies, the legislator would essentially entrust the conscience of the data controllers with what is being made public. This is another level of state-organized robbery, which is completely unacceptable. In an amendment motion, we also propose that the section be cancelled, that you consider how far you will go through a shameful cut-off of public funds, and what awaits you at the end of this journey. If the previous measure was shameful, Article 20 shall apply. §, which amends the registered partnership, may be called sly. The government's shady proposal to base the budget would emptify the registered partnership, eliminating the most important provision of the registered partnership law, the so-called general rule of reference. This general rule of reference makes it possible, where the legal system grants or imposes obligations on spouses, to automatically apply to registered partners with the narrow exception provided for in the registered partnership law. The amendment hidden in the budget salad would allow any law, which is even more dangerous, to treat spouses and registered partners differently. The adoption of the proposal makes the application of the reference rule completely impossible. The intention of a government to separate a registered partnership from a marriage is unacceptable and thus to evacuate it. According to the LMP, it is untenable to ignore the government in real-life family relationships and to ignore acquired rights. Changes and changes to the salad law establishing the budget concerning foundational and private public education institutions should also be addressed. From September this year, the 28th would enter into force. The amendment contained in paragraph 2 of this Article, namely the withdrawal of budgetary support from pre-schools which are open for less than eight hours. So far, they have been supported in proportion to the opening hours. Even if not in bulk, there may be institutions that will be forced to close unless their opening hours are increased, but this also entails an increase in costs. However, part of the cost increase is likely to be passed on to parents, not to state institutions. We see that this amendment has no technical basis whatsoever. The second change usually puts foundation and private institutions in an uncertain and unpredictable position, which follow alternative curricula and alternative pedagogical programmes. [[14.30]] According to the text of the amendment, the kindergarten education programme and the framework curriculum may differ in some cases from those laid down in the Public Education Act and in the legislation adopted on the basis of its authorisation, provided that the derogation constitutes an additional service. The Public Education Act does not define the concepts of additional service and alternative service, the identity or differences between the two. What are the consequences of this for non-State public education institutions? Is there any public education institution operating in Hungary that would be forced to change or cease its current operation if this provision entered into force? Let us ask this in particular, for example, to schools of Waldorf following an alternative curriculum, other than the National Basic School. Please clarify the situation. We strongly request the resolution of the representative of the Government here in the parliamentary debate. The salad law deals with environmental protection and water management in several stages, not in the sense that it builds these public services, but on the contrary: it destroys them. It is a well-known phenomenon that a government, as a builder of domestic oligarchs and foreign multinationals, is reducing environmental and social barriers to profit hunger, only to this extent we thought it existed only in the third world. For the purposes of this Decision, the following definitions shall apply: § of the Wesselényi Miklós Ár és Belvízvédésvédelmi Indemnítéségényi Fund, the government again hits the poorest and the vulnerable, instead of repairing a well-intentioned construction, it withdraws from the case, as it should be able to do so in case of insufficient resources. At the same time, the Fund would be an important instrument for the operation of a separate public fund to encourage voluntary participation, which could benefit those who could still be entitled to compensation in the event of flooding by means of regular payments, budgetary support and international aid under a contract and resulting in damage to their residential property, with whom insurance companies do not conclude or extend insurance contracts. The reason is a small number of persons with a contractual relationship. According to the government, asset insurance schemes offered by market participants are currently capable of achieving the fund's function in the longer term. It is proposed that a new contract should no longer be concluded. Article 64 The Act on Water Companies would be amended. This is the final bleeding out of aquatic companies, which were local institutions for voluntary and self-interest water management, and could play a significant role in adapting to climate change with appropriate regulation. Instead, last year's amendment of the Water Management Act provides for a state task, as defined by the relevant government bodies, to provide for, for example, channels, which areas need to be watered from state resources. This is expected to be again about the benefits to the oligarchs. The bill is 9. In its section, the Mining Act is amended - this should not be done either. Another example of the government ignoring the protection of the environment and protecting our health is meaningless. The deadline for the recultivation obligation has already been amended several times, and further deferral would mean declaring that the State is imposing on society the burden of using the environment instead of on the injured party. Dear House, Article 16 is replaced by the following: Paragraph 2 determines that the Government will no longer be obliged to report on progress in the construction of the motorway network and on the use of budgetary resources and other means of support. It's the shameful category again. On the one hand, everyone knows that most of the money is spent in road construction, and on the other hand, the government is pushing highway construction to the extent that it exceeds Gyula Horn, throwing our future and our money into concrete insanely. Finally, it should be mentioned that new licences will be granted to the public money pump, the illegitimate agricultural chamber, and the funds for managing forced nationalised cooperative credit institutions will be removed, thus covering the tracks. They also nationalise and fully centralize territorial development, as it worked so well in other areas as well. That doesn't have any principle or professional justification either. Regional development should be coordinated at state level, not managed. Subsidiarity, efficiency and all common sense contradict the fact that an area should be told from a remote centre what it should be developed to be good for it, and of course the aim here is not to be good for the individual areas that may break down. This is supported by the measure in Annex 3, which deprives the municipalities of the right to receive money for the redemption of the gas utility assets built with a public contribution - another requisition and acquisition of spoils. On this basis, the bill is clearly unacceptable to LMP. Thank you for your attention.
u2016-05-13-84	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. In the absence of an independent Member's opposition, the voice of the minority advocate invited by the committee representing the nationalities will now take place. I give the floor to the German ethnic advocate Ritter Imre, who will present the first sentences of his speech in his mother tongue and then translate them into Hungarian. Here you go, Mr. Speaker. You have the floor.
u2016-05-13-85	Danke schön! Sehr geehrter Herr Vorsitzender! Sehr geehrtes Parliament! Erlauben Sie mir bitte, dass ich im Namen und im Auftrag vom Ausschuss der in Ungarn lebenden Nationalitäten unseren Standpunkt bezüglichdes GesetzesvorschlagesNr. T/10536. über die Grundgesetze derHaushaltsbudget Jahr 2017 - im Zusammenhang mit den Nationalitäten übergreifenden Teilen - erörtere. Mr President, Dear House, Allow me, on behalf of the Committee on Nationalities in Hungary, to express our position on the basis of the T/10536 establishing the central budget for 2017. Bill No. 1 on national issues. I'd like to split my comment into two parts. In the first, I would like to talk about an issue that is not yet included in the underlying law, but we believe that it must be in it, and in the second part I would like to take a look back on a general but very important procedural principle, which I would like to raise once again. Then for the first time, which is not included, namely 174. § XXI of 1996 on territorial development and spatial planning Law III/A We would like to add to this chapter. 18/A. § ( 1 ): the National Regional Development Stakeholder Forum is the government, as well as the county authorities, here we would like to place the county minority self-governments, the metropolitan self-governments as members of the Metropolitan Government; we would like to place the delegate of the National National Government (National Association of County Local Governments) in point (b), the President of the National Association of County Local Governments and four delegates. The reason for this is that CLXXXIX of 2011 on the local governments of Hungary. LXXVIII of 1997 on the formation and protection of the built environment. Act No XXI of 1996 on territorial development and spatial planning It is also clear from the law that the development of settlements must take into account the strengthening of the identity of the local population, the preservation of the diversity and richness of their cultural heritage. The 2011 CLXXIX on the rights of nationalities. Act 118. According to § (1) (d), the national minority self-government exercises the right of agreement on issues directly affecting the national minority, such as county development plans. [[14.40]] According to point (d) of paragraph 1, the national minority self-government exercises the right of agreement on issues directly affecting the national minority, such as county development plans.(14.40) Further, the same law 2. According to paragraph 2 of Section 2, the fundamental interests and interests interests interests of the ethnic communities are the national authorities, and therefore the obligation to consult the county authorities on their local levels cannot be contested. That is why we recommend the involvement of county ethnic authorities in the work of OTEF. As county ethnic authorities do not have a national organisation, only national governments, we recommend naming the delegate of the National National Government Association among the members of the OTEF. In this respect, the Committee on Nationalities in Hungary will submit an amendment, and I would ask for its support. For the record, this was an exercise years ago. When the county bodies of the national minority authorities came out of the OTEF, I couldn't look back on this, but their participation in the former was a real practice. And then a little flashback. Nearly a year and a half ago, in the absence of a month, exactly one and a half years ago, on 12 December 2014, I made the following speech here in Parliament. In the context of the bill on the foundation of Hungary's 2015 budget, which is a draft of dozens of amendments to the law, I would like to say the following on behalf of the Committee on Nationalities in Hungary in relation to our experience in preparing the law in the last six months. Our fundamental problem is that the preparatory of the legislation does not, at least not always, carry out the consultations required by law with the national minority self-governments, the nationalities living in Hungary, prior to its referral to Parliament. What exactly is this about? The national minority self-government is CLXXIX of 2011 on the rights of nationalities. Act 118. Article 1 (1) (a) provides an opinion on the draft legislation affecting the nationalities represented by it in that capacity. Secondly, the 2010 CXXX on legislation. Law 19. In accordance with paragraph 1 of this Article, if a law expressly grants a state, local government or other organisation the right to comment on the draft legislation concerning its legal status or function, the preparatory of the legislation shall ensure that the body concerned is entitled to exercise that right. In addition, on 30 May 2011, the 13 national minority self-governments concluded a strategic agreement and a contract with the Minister of Public Administration and Justice responsible for preparing legislation, which aimed to establish legislation in the area of nationality that is capable of ensuring that the educational, educational, cultural and linguistic rights of nationalities living in Hungary are respected. In other words, if, incidentally, there were any legal interpretation doubts regarding the consultation clearly required by the cited legal instruments, we even concluded a separate strategic agreement with the Minister of Public Administration and Justice to take into account and enforce the rights of nationality in the preparation of the legislation. Despite this, some of the draft laws and legislative amendments submitted to Parliament concerning the rights and interests of nationalities living in Hungary have to be stated without prior consultation with the national minority self-governments, i.e. they are sometimes submitted to Parliament in a way that does not comply with the legal requirements. Finally, I would also like to make it clear and clear that the election of parliamentary spokespersons, the establishment and operation of the Committee of Hungarian Nationalities does not in any way trigger or replace the obligation to consult national national governments in the preparation of legislation affecting the rights and interests of national minorities in Hungary. On the one hand, the possibility and task of the parliamentary advocates, the nationality committee, is to check whether the consultation with the national authorities during the preparation of legislation has taken place, and on the other hand, the comments of the national minority authorities have been taken into account in the draft legislation submitted, if not, why. On the other hand, it is up to us to give an opinion on the draft legislation submitted, to discuss its representatives and Commission amendments, to submit Commission amendments where necessary, and to represent the interests of nationality during the parliamentary debate in the given timeframes. They do not replace, but complement, the right of national minority self-governments to comment by law. In order to change this breach of law and to prevent its future occurrence, we also call to the attention of the pre-legals here to the public of Parliament to comply with their obligation to consult national minority self-governments. I heard it a year and a half ago. When I looked up this speech from a year and a half ago and read it again, I was shocked at it myself, as if I could sense what was coming. After that, the smaller or larger landmines in the law establishing the budget came in line. In the so-called salad law establishing the budget law of 2015, on which I spoke, we were overlooked - we too were wrong about it and we were not warned about it - an amendment to the redeployment of the management organisation's tasks, in which the 2011 CXCV on public finances. Law No. 10. Pursuant to paragraph 4a of paragraph 4a of the first subparagraph of the first subparagraph, the tasks of the economic organisation, if the average annual statistical staff of the budgetary body is less than 100 persons, shall be performed by the managing body, by the municipal government office of the general government, or by another budgetary body under the control of the managing body. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. This paragraph had to enter into force on 1 April 2015. We learned about this at the end of February 2015 and therefore, on 16 March 2015 we tabled an amendment as a matter of urgency, with the aim of maintaining their economic autonomy for the exercise of their fundamental rights by the office of national minority self-governments and the budgetary bodies established and maintained by the local government of nationality. This is why we proposed that the office of national minority self-governments, as well as the national government budgetary body, may have an economic organisation even if its average annual statistical staff does not reach 100 persons. During the negotiation and decision-making of our bill, Parliament made it possible to derogate from the regulations of the decree, it was adopted unanimously in practically two days, and indeed on the last day before its entry into force, the offices of the national minority self-governments in Hungary and the institutions in the maintenance of local minority self-governments could retain their economic autonomy. Following this, additional smaller or larger mines came, such as the amendment of the definition of budgetary support with effect from 1 January 2015, whereby national and local self-governments were excluded from the exceptions and, with effect from 1 January 2017, the authorisation provision for Government Decree No 428 on the conditionality and accounting of grants from the appropriations for nationality purposes is deleted. [[14.50]] According to my current knowledge and current knowledge, I do not know of any amendment in more than 80 legislative amendments to the law establishing the Finance Act 2017 that would affect the nationalities living in Hungary to the same extent as the amendments listed above. I would add that I did not know when we discussed this in December 2014 that it would be like this in the bill that was then adopted. I would also like to add that I know that there is a great deal of time to prepare the laws. In particular, I am also personally certain that the reason why this was not negotiated with national national minority self-governments was not because they did not want it because of some ulterior or bad intentions, but I am quite certain that in this case the legislator did not think that there were national government offices and that there were institutions maintained by national self-governments, and what problem this could cause. After all, in February we realized what this meant in the reserved institutions, but it was only in preparation for the legislative amendment proposal that the law on the Office of National National Governments was quite simply inapplicable, because they would have taken away the powers of farmers from the office and had no one to give it to. I think that this is a force majeure situation or can be seen as a force majeure situation, but, at the same time, in amending the definition of budgetary support, the exception of national authorities is by no means, because there it is de facto about who I take out, with whom I amend it, and in addition, it affects the fundamental activities of national authorities. I would also like to ask, and once again, that, of course, this is not the competence of Members of Parliament and parliamentary groups, but the responsibility for preparing the law is to take seriously the fact that all laws and all areas where nationalities are substantially affected should be dealt with in advance with national minority self-governments in order to try together to prevent, where appropriate, amendments which could have been preceded by conciliation. I would also like to add that in the last few weeks, in relation to the central fiscal law of 2017 we have been consulting with the relevant specialists almost every day because the Government Decree 428 will cease to exist, and this must have been done by the foundational budget law of 2017. But with regard to the foundational laws, there was no topic that was asked to be discussed. I take this as my belief, and I hope that I am right, that this happened because there is no amendment in it that will perhaps prove to be relevant in February or March, not to give to the nationalities living in Hungary, or to adversely affect them. Thank you very much. Danke für ihre Aufmerksamkeit.
u2016-05-13-86	Thank you very much, Mr Speaker. We now have a two-minute speech. I give the floor to Congressman István Józsa.
u2016-05-13-87	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I am shocked to hear it here in this debate, although it is only to the extent that it does not form the basis of the budget, because it then discussed the laws that Mr Ritter Imre, the German ethnic advocate, said that they had to conclude a strategic agreement with the Ministry of Justice to enforce their legal rights. That's absurd. In the rule of law, concluding a separate agreement on the rule of law to ensure that it is respected is, in effect, proof that the legislation does not work or does not comply with it. I could say that the power is powerful, because it is his decision whether there is, in the interpretation of the law, a part that belongs to the minority self-government, whether it affects them or not. How much easier it would be to share the drafts with them at the preparatory stage and decide on this. The other thing I was shocked at, and that is why I asked for the floor, what Congressman Nitrai said - listen to me for a moment - was never said by the MSZP that the immigration wave was a false problem. You are trying to instruct us on the basis of some of our Members' unsubstantiated opinions in solo. The MSZP fraction never thought that the immigration wave was a false problem. We consider it to be a very serious problem, and as you have seen, we only lack the humanity of your behavior, the humanity which, according to some classic quotes, the good Samaritan was able to present at the time, and you are somehow not. Thank you very much.
u2016-05-13-88	Thank you very much, Mr President, for the record only, that you spoke to Mr János Hargitai, and not to Zsolt Nyitrai. [[Dr. István Józsa: I'll follow you, I'm sorry.]] Thank you very much. You'll be more careful next time. State Secretary Péter Benő Banai asked for the floor on behalf of the government. Here you go.
u2016-05-13-89	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Allow me to respond to the suggestions made in the main speakerial round. At all, Mr Sándor Burány questioned the date of the hearing and the way in which it is appropriate to discuss next year's budget bill and the laws on which the bill is based. I think that the foundation of a budget law is not primarily determined by when the bill will be discussed. We know of budgetary laws that were adopted before their entry into force, i.e. at the end of the previous year, but the budgetary processes have evolved in a very different way than that contained in the approved budget. We have often talked about the fact that, of course, a summer adoption means less information than a year-end acceptance, but these uncertainties can be eliminated by the system of maintenance. The debate at the spring session and the previous adoption of a budget have no doubt the advantage of strengthening predictability. I repeat that this predictability is confirmed by the domestic and international opinions on the 2016 budget bill, so the positive part of the previous budget adoption has been confirmed by previous opinions. I repeat, the risks can be avoided by means of reserves. I also think that the 2016 budget bill, as well as the negotiation of this last year and the 2016 budget itself, is on the footstep. The amendment, which is before the Honourable Parliament, concerns the use of the additional revenue seen in relation to the adoption of the budget, so that the deficit target and the debt reduction can remain unchanged. I think that the date alone does not question the credibility of a budget. As regards the simultaneous discussion of the budget and the laws underlying it, I must say that, as Mr János Harghitai referred to, the practice so far in relation to the past of the Hungarian Parliament was that the Parliament had always negotiated these laws at the same time. [[15.00]] It was possible, and is possible now, to transfer the effects of the amendment of the underlying laws through the Finance Act, and vice versa, if the budget figures change so as to make it necessary to amend the underlying laws, it is possible to do so. I consider this to be a virtue, and this is the virtue I see in confirming that this was the practice, regardless of the parties that supported the governments. This was the practice of Fidesz-led government, and this was the practice before 2010. [[István Jakab, vice-president of the Parliament takes the chair.]] I agree with Mr Burány, Mr Burány, that the basic bill before you also concerns amendments to laws that directly affect budget figures and everyday processes - see increases in care fees or support for regular child protection benefits - and there are proposals for amending legislation where relations with the budget are not so direct. However, I must quote Mr Harghitai once again, the amendment of this cemetery law affects the responsibilities of hospitals and the cost of hospitals, or the modification of the motion picture law mentioned by you has an influence on the work of government agencies, the budget of government agencies. But if you have mentioned the motion picture, I must also say that Hungarian film production has now reached such a level that there is a shortage of qualified professionals. This production here, taxation here and the production of films added to economic growth require that there is a proper replacement in this field, which is also proposed by the bill on which you are founded on the budget. I do not argue, therefore, because it is accurate that this comprehensive, very extensive bill contains laws directly and indirectly affecting the budget through several referrals, but I repeat, these proposals have an impact on budgetary processes and I believe that this has been the practice in recent years, namely that the legislative proposals that directly and indirectly affect the budget have appeared in a single package before the Parliament. In view of the comments made by President Tünde Handó, President Attila Péterfalvi, I must say that these organisations were consulted. I am saying that it is perhaps understandable that there is a difference between the materials sent for consultation and the final bill submitted, since the final bill includes the comments received during the negotiations. [[Dr. Tamás Bellozó: That's not true!]] At the same time... Congressman, allow me to finish. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] At the same time, we will, of course, consult the organisations concerned and respond to all comments. As far as family policy measures are concerned, Mr Burány mentioned that next year's budget itself and the legislative proposal on which it is based are punishments for poorer groups in the area of family policy. I must make it clear that neither the budget bill submitted in 2017 nor the underlying bill contains any discrimination in the case of families with poorer incomes. I also have to say here - that I should mention one or two numbers - couples earning around two thirds of the average salary in the case of family policy subsidies and family tax relief, where the income of the two earning spouses is HUF 155 thousand gross each, are already able to make maximum use of the tax relief of the three children. This is 99 thousand forints a month, thanks to the fact that the family discount is available not only from personal income tax but also from contributions. Mr. Sándor Burány, Mr. President and Mr. Dániel Kárpát Deputy Head of the Group - [[Z. Carpathian Daniel: Not anymore.]] - as regards the restriction of information from Mr President's comments, I must say in general that public-owned companies which operate on the competitive market, where the activity of those companies is determined by market processes, I think that the restriction of information can be justified precisely because of competition neutrality. It is not appropriate for competitors to have information that they can use against the company concerned, and indeed there are areas - energy - where, in addition to competition aspects, other national and, where appropriate, external interests are to be taken into account when issuing the data. With regard to the proposals made by Mrs Erzsébet Schmuck, first of all, let me say that the proposed abolition of the Wesselényi Miklós Fund does not mean that the relationship between persons currently under contract under the Fund would be affected by any disadvantage. It is important to know that insurance opportunities did not exist at the time of the establishment of the fund in areas at risk of flooding. Thus, when the fund was created, a deficit replacement measure was created. It's different now. Today, market insurers offer insurance cheaper than contracts concluded with the State. This fund manages contracts previously concluded, the contractual stocks of which are reduced year by year. At present, we are talking about 600 contracts in scale, which, I repeat, the State will continue to maintain, not within the framework of a separate state fund, but within the framework of a chapter budget allocation. And the Integration Fund of Cooperative Credit Institutions, as I mentioned in the contribution to the bill, is a fund that is emptiness in terms of its tasks. Of course, information from the past on what revenues and expenses have been achieved through the basis will continue to be available, so all relevant information can be provided by the government. There are some questions that I think my State Secretary colleagues can provide additional information on, so allow me to respond to Mr Ritter's voice, which was also mentioned in his later statement by Mr Józsa. First of all, I have to say factually that the bill establishing the 2017 budget was sent by the government to the national authorities before the submission, and we also received feedback from the Roma, Croatian and Slovak municipalities. So there was consultation with the national authorities. There are questions about which we have had debates, debates, issues that we have not seen in the same way, such as the unification of the system of rules on budgetary support, but I must say again that we have conducted formal consultations with the national authorities, and I hope that the spokesperson can confirm that in the event of any conciliation initiative, the authorities of the government have been and are available. On this basis, I therefore believe that, overall, it is possible to discuss a bill that will have a substantial impact on next year's budget. There is an opportunity to change the underlying law and the number of budgets, and, of course, the government is open to discussing possible amendments and proposals for amendments. Thank you very much.
u2016-05-13-90	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Welcome, fellow Members. Dear Parliament, We will continue our work with further speeches from our representatives. I give the floor to Congresswoman Mónika Dunai, Fidesz Group.
u2016-05-13-91	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen of the State Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, On the basis of the 2017 budget before the Parliament, the tax laws and the laws establishing the budget, we expect a financially stable, predictable and successful 2017 year for the Hungarian people. Each year you find the Parliament in a different, new situation when it comes to establishing the budget, which in a new situation is essential to amend a number of laws and regulations. We are pleased to see that, in addition to the improved performance of the economy, the laws on which the budget is based reflect this improving trend. At the same time, further steps are being taken to ensure that the use of public funds is tighter, more rational and more responsive to social needs. [[15.10]] Many of the changing legislation also affects public education, vocational training and higher education. It also refers to recognition of foreign certificates and diplomas. The Public Education Act defines weekly hours financed by the state in public education institutions. In the case of kindergarten, this is 61 hours a week for which the State provides cover. The current amendment states that 11 hours of this is the timeframe to be devoted to the specific development of children with integration, learning and behavioural difficulties, and to the health, pedagogical, rehabilitation and rehabilitation of children with special needs. This change will therefore be a provision for the protection of children whose development requires extra professional effort. With better protection of their development interests, we can reduce the differences between children today at school. A further provision of the Public Education Act allows all kindergartens to provide for 8 hours for children whose parents work. Or children for whom it is appropriate to spend a longer period of time in kindergarten in order to develop them. The bill differentiates between basic and additional services in kindergarten and school, which, however, do not affect the current system of support to maintainers, and this is worthwhile and important in particular. The section which also identifies the national self-governments as regards the establishment or maintenance of public education institutions includes a text-focusing provision. The Law on VET contribution and support for the development of training will also be amended. In this context, it will be possible in the future to contribute to the operating costs of state-owned vocational education and training schools, as well as to the training part of the National Employment Fund. In the future, the public vocational training and adult training organisation may receive support from the central framework of the fund to carry out the planned audits in its budget, to operate the National Vocational Training and Adult Education Council and to produce professional and adult training journals. The central framework of the base will also ensure the award of the Hungarian competitors who have won medals at the WorldSkills and EuroSkills tournaments. At the same time, the remuneration can increase the honour of the profession and of the professional skills in the eyes of young people studying the profession. In the case of grants under the tender, the public vocational training and adult training body shall carry out the tasks related to the applications. 1 per cent of the grant allocation for the public vocational training and adult training body may be granted for the operation. Another amendment: a new provision will be included in the amendment of the Act on the recognition of foreign certificates and diplomas and on national higher education. The mandate of the Ministerial Decree to regulate administrative service fees shall be supplemented by the authorisation for the recognition and naturalisation of foreign certificates and diplomas and for the regulation of administrative service fees relating to official certificates issued on diplomas and certificates. Ladies and gentlemen, They say that we Hungarians have been thinking extremely twistedly, so we have been successful in recent years, or in decades our laws have become so extensive, or even as complex, even unhungarian, in many cases lengthy and bureaucratic. I therefore particularly welcome the effort to reduce bureaucracy, to clear legislation from obsolete, obsolete provisions which are detrimental to transparency, because this will greatly facilitate people's information, easier access to legislation, and quicker handling of matters. For this reason, from time to time, bureaucracy reduction and deregulation packages will also appear here in Parliament to ensure transparency and simplification of our daily affairs. Deregulation provisions also appear in the bill concerning education. These are justified by the cancellation of the recruitment procedure, the need to remove outdated transitional and other provisions, and the need not to fix a number of minor issues at the level of law, because this only increases the inflexibility of the system, hinders a rapid and professional response to their simplification or change needs resulting from practical experience. For example, the definition of annexes to a certificate, an application for recognition of a diploma, a certified translation, a certified copy, and the definition of detailed rules for the application for international legal assistance do not require any legislation. I believe that these are useful steps in deregulation. But what we see very well is that we still have plenty to do in order to deal with our affairs faster and easier, with rights and obligations, with the self-confidence of a man looking at the process. Ladies and gentlemen, I see that in order to achieve this goal, we can take another step forward once this package of laws has been adopted. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2016-05-13-92	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Secretary of State László Palkovics, Ministry of Human Resources. Secretary of State, please.
u2016-05-13-93	Congressman, I'm sorry, I'll be very brief. In a short two-minute comment, I would like to respond in part to the previous and to the legislative changes to kindergartens and foundation schools. The package of laws establishing the budget is 117. § 3 of the Nkt. 9. It amends paragraph 9 of Article 9 of the Act, which includes a clause whereby all alternative kindergartens and schools must be financed according to their own specialty. This literally says:. The budgetary support of alternative institutions is based on the mandatory provision of tasks in their kindergarten programme or in the given framework curriculum. In addition, the additional costs involved in their operation shall not be subject to a central budgetary bonus. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm This basically means a technical amendment. This is obviously an excessive provision and, moreover, an unenforced provision, since the Finance Act does not contain lines that would set a specific amount of support for alternative institutions based on their own programme. These schools are entitled to average wage-based support in the same form as any other private institution. [[15.20]] It amends paragraph 1 of this Article, which includes a clause whereby all alternative kindergartens and schools must be financed in accordance with their own specialty. This literally says:. The budgetary support of alternative institutions is based on the mandatory provision of tasks in their kindergarten programme or in the given framework curriculum. In addition, the additional costs involved in their operation shall not be subject to a central budgetary bonus. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm This basically means a technical amendment. This is obviously an excessive provision and, moreover, an unenforced provision, since the Finance Act does not contain lines that would set a specific amount of support for alternative institutions based on their own programme. These schools are entitled to average wage-based support in the same form as any other private institution. (15.20)In summary, the 2017 legislative package does not mean any change to these schools compared to the 2016 funding. The second question is eight o'clock kindergarten time. Here is our professional opinion that this is the level of care at which the basic programme for kindergarten education can be provided at an appropriate level. There is also a very important other aspect of this, that parents' work can really be provided with at least eight hours of kindergarten care. We typically fund 50 hours for a kindergarten. Anyone who deviates from this will not receive funding in eight hours, but if he increases the retention time to eight hours, this funding will continue to be available. We've been negotiating with several private operators who used to operate their kindergartens during a smaller period. They faced an administrative burden in the case of the previous system that they decided to lift it up to eight o'clock. I think that we will continue to negotiate with several of these institutions, and hopefully they will make the same decision. Thank you. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-05-13-94	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Statement will be made by Mr Tamás Harangozó, MSZP Group. You have the floor.
u2016-05-13-95	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, I would like to comment on a part of the bill that we can safely say that this is not the bill on the foundation of the central budget for 2017, but we can simply call it the bill on the basis of the smooth return or theft of public funds. The most insufferable element of the bill is certainly public ownership, i.e. the basically full encryption of the data of companies owned by Hungarian taxpayers. Of course, there is a strong argument here about all market conditions, and we have heard it from the Secretary of State, but we are no longer living in the times when Fidesz can convince anyone, and I would like to hear with special interest from the experience of the past few years, what a market disadvantage the Hungarian electricity industry has suffered by having to account for public funds. For years before that, we listened to the President of the Central Bank of György Matolcsy, who boasted that the Hungarian National Bank's money was not public money. Orbán's right-hand man evidently imagined that he was the Hungarian nation, so he could have its money on his own. However, when the spirit of the system of national cooperation has not yet been sufficiently understood by the courts, you have submitted to Parliament an equally brazen bill concerning the encryption of the management of the Hungarian National Bank. This political pull, born of despair, was uncomprehensible and transparent to which János Áder and the Constitutional Court, who understood Fidesz, did not assist. Today, the cause of their desperation is perfectly understandable. It became obvious that hundreds of billions of the National Bank were used to build a clientele, to pay off friends. If their encryption law had then entered into force, they could continue to pump the public money unhindered, and the castles could continue to build for the fidesz new aristocracy. Shockingly, after being caught, they would not only have apologized to the Hungarian people and stopped stealing, but they are looking for another money tap, and they are not even hiding it, and they are even proud of it, as Viktor Orbán's little railway on the road to Felcsút. This time it's the state-owned companies. They put me in the eyes of voters, and they bring in this law, in which they want to encrypt the public money by the same method as they tried to steal the foundations of the National Bank. At least they've figured out that the laws of justice are slowly grinding, but I'm sure. Even though they try to do all kinds of legal twists, judgments are now in place in data release cases launched months ago. And the data that has been sued prove beyond a doubt what everyone had previously suspected: there is an unscrupulous theft going on in the background. That's why they want to use the means of lawmaking to encrypt all data once and for all. In order to ensure the established practice of unhindered public finances, can they legislate that public money has nothing to do with taxpayers? What's the next step, Mr. Secretary? Will it be statutory that it is not stealing if someone has the Fidesz Party Book to steal public property? And what's ridiculous is that they're trying to argue with legal arguments that their bill doesn't serve abuse. The President of the National Court Office, which you yourself referred to, describes himself that the bill disproportionately restricts the fundamental right to access data of general interest. Similarly, the National Authority for Data Protection and Freedom of Information took a position. Allow me to quote literally the written opinion of the president of the OBH, which he sent to this bill. The amendment limits the visibility of the information relating to the business activities of the publicly owned company and the company it manages. The regulation is justified by the potential for a disadvantage from the point of view of fair competition in the market and by the protection of the legitimate financial, economic or market interests of the publicly owned company or the undertaking it manages. However, the proposal disproportionately restricts the fundamental right to access data of general interest in the case of this category of subjects. According to the Curia's unbroken practice, companies managing public money must, in any case, issue the data which is also covered by the proposal. This restriction does not constitute a necessary restriction on the interests of national security, central financial or foreign exchange policy or foreign affairs relations and international relations under the Act on the right of information self-determination and freedom of information, so there is no doubt at all whether there is a legal basis for what you have just submitted to Parliament. This is written by the President of the National Court of Justice to the Hungarian Parliament, making it very, very clear that the legal basis is questionable, and it is perfectly clear that whatever laws you are making, these companies will be obliged to publish these data. It is also a lie to claim that public companies would currently be at a competitive disadvantage due to excessive transparency. By the way, the claim itself is so ridiculous that you don't know, cry or laugh. In fact, it is still the crystallized court practice that the data controller is not obliged to comply with the request for data if it really proves that the release of the data would be disproportionate. So much for your so-called legal arguments. This proposal is as transparent as in the case of the National Bank. My fellow Members, Fidesz, are also better off learning from that case, from the previous veto of János Áder, the decision of the Constitutional Court, if they listen to the warning words of the President of the National Court of Justice and the NAIH. They'd rather withdraw this proposal with their anxious warning than be forced out of you later by the anger of the people. Thank you so much for listening.
u2016-05-13-96	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, We now have a speech from Congresswoman Bernadett Szél, the LMP Group. I give you the floor, Congresswoman. There you go. You have the floor.
u2016-05-13-97	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, I have to start by thanking Secretary of State Palkovic for his previous words, his reaction to the changes he made to foundation schools. I therefore thank you for the words, but I am very obliged to debate the Government's position in its content. I think that it is a completely inappropriate policy to put into any law questions involving thousands of people without consulting those whose fate they decide on in the first place. I think you have also received the letters sent to all Members of Parliament by the Association of Private Schools. I'm sure I've received it, the LMP fraction has read it, and many of us are responding substantially to it. On behalf of the Hungarian Waldorf Association, this letter was sent by President Péter Marosváry and President György Horn on behalf of the Association of Foundation and Private Schools. I think that the right policy would be to negotiate in advance and communicate with people who take very serious tasks and burden off the state in order to provide services to Hungarian people and to Hungarian children, which I believe are of value to this country. In addition, Secretary of State Palkovic also used the expression that they would continue to negotiate with these institutions. I don't think it's right that there are moments of decision-making first, but there's some sort of negotiation going on, and then there's a decision to be made, and then we'll talk about it. About what? Then we're in business. I think that's a problem. Moreover, it is quite clear to me that this proposal, as included in the law, makes preschools open for less than eight hours a day impossible. [[15.30]] So far, it has been the legal criterion that these institutions receive less funding in proportion to their opening hours. So it was a proportionality system. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that there are many different families and many different children in this country. I think it is wise for the government to try to take these needs into account and politicalise them, not make statements that it believes are valid for all families. I do think that there are children who can spend half a day in kindergarten in such a way that it would help their upbuilding and health, and then if the family can solve it, it can even develop at home, in harmony with the family. I do not think that these institutions should be forced to change their daily lives on command. In addition, let me draw your attention to the fact that I would like to introduce this provision on the withdrawal of budget support from September 2016 onwards. We are now in the year of education, these children have already been admitted into these institutions. Families brought their children to this institution knowing that they would spend the next year under specific conditions. I don't think it's a good thing that you're trying to interfere with the operation of such a system, so I think it's important that you see that it's not necessarily a good thing for you to force institutions by 8:00. I would like the negotiations to be conducted with representatives of the institutions concerned. I am convinced that they can speak more convincingly about this issue than I do, and then there would be legislation that takes these interests into account. However, I would very much ask you to acknowledge that during the year, in the middle of the education year, changing regulations is the most unfortunate thing. Masses of families are in a situation that they can rightly say that we weren't prepared for. There is another measure, which has also been brought to our attention by the representatives of those concerned. I do not think that this strengthens the guarantees of the survival of the foundations and private institutions, because a law is good then, and I think that all those who codify laws are striving for a law to be interpreted only in one way. Although to me, Mr. Secretary of State's words meant that there will be no change compared to the current system. [[Dr. László Palkovics nods.]] Thank you for indicating this by metacommunication, and I appreciate that we can talk about this in substance, but the voice of concern has not come up by accident in the last few days in this country and we have received these letters. I ask you to try to correct the text of codification then, so that these words and these sentences can mean one and only thing for everyone. I welcome the fact that the Government's intention is not to make these institutions impossible, but I would like to ask you to make it very clear in the bill. I think that the concepts need to be clarified precisely, that uncertainties should not be included in an education system. A situation should not be created where survival of foundational kindergartens and schools would depend on the convenience of the lawyer. We have submitted our own amendments to these two items. Please take a look at it, and if you think it's gonna improve the situation, you're gonna have to back it up. If you have an even better proposal, we will support it. The point is that it should be clear that the foundation and private institutions will not suffer any damage, so the current situation will not change so that these institutions can expect to operate under previous conditions. I would like to add once again what I have just said in relation to kindergarten opening hours and funding, I will maintain it. I think that it would be wise for the government to turn back from this path, and may Other Politics is asking you to do so. And let it sound between the walls of this Parliament in this Chamber that I really think that foundational and private schools give this country a value that we must appreciate, protect and protect. The work of these people gives much to Hungarian children. We value them, and we do not bring them from the legislative chair into a situation where they are forced to worry that something is changing in their lives, which is why they cannot accomplish their earlier intentions. The other moment I would like to address in the salad is obviously the May Other Group of Politics has a statement on several issues, but I would like to talk to you about a very serious issue. This is a question that, I think, exhausts the category of abuse of workers' rights. The government has chosen a very shady method to make workers impossible. In particular, I would like to address a few words to the government on Saturday's stand-by, because with the deepest indignation I have received this sly amendment in the foundational salad. It's just that you guys from the labor code would basically take out the Saturday allowance for those who work in a stand-by position. This is the current Mt., which is your Labour Code, honourable government parties, because you have forced this through Parliament, according to the current Labour Code, if, for example, people work in a stand-by kind of job, such as railwaymen, so we are talking specifically about railway passengers, and these people are assigned on Sunday to regular working hours, then their previous working days, their Saturdays, should be accounted for not as regular working hours, but as extraordinary work. This is the current Mt. There was a huge scandal about that, and I think there is. 'Cause what's happened is that in recent years, the MÁV simply didn't pay these people any overtime on Saturday. This is their right, and I am not the only one who thinks so, but also the Hungarian court. Because against the law-breaking practice, the railroad union also raised its word, sued the MÁV and won a lawsuit. A final decision was reached at the Szeged Tribunal on 25 February, which resulted in the payment of HUF 5 billion to the MÁV as an overtime allowance to ten thousand affected employees, going back three years. Now, Secretary General Fónagy has answered my question on this issue here in Parliament, and I would like to quote the answer of Secretary General Fónagy. He said that the employers of the MÁV group have not been in violation of the law for many years by assigning workers with stand-by jobs to work in line with the characteristics of the 170-year railway plant on Sunday and the Saturday immediately before that. Yes, I do. The Hungarian court has spoken. The Secretary of State added that the obligation to pay the allowance was introduced into the system by the 2012 Labour Code, so this is not something going back a long time. But that means five billion forints to ten thousand people who were taken from them. And then one more quote:, This provision of the Code of Work is contrary to those which are unfortunately now less and less known for continuous work. Now, translating this into Hungarian so that everyone who is watching our broadcast can understand it, Mr. Secretary of State Fónagy said that the practice of MÁV did not violate the law, because the law was overwritten by 170 years of practice. That's not happening. If the court said something, it's true, and the government has to admit it. Fidesz didn't step forward and say that he was going to change the rules by, first, paying all the allowances that were left behind, that's the court's decision, no one has the right to appeal against it. And you didn't come up with a bonus system where you avoid similar situations and give the workers what they deserve, but you took yourself and you smuggled into this foundational salad the clause with which these people are virtually deprived of the money they deserve. Because in doing so, it will be possible if this is accepted so that the MÁV does not have to pay the extra for the stand-by jobs for the Saturday days. Now, that is completely unacceptable, because if this foundational salad law passes the Hungarian Parliament, then this means that people working on standby can be forced to work Saturday and Sunday without paying them any allowances. This would, according to our calculations, result in a wage reduction of about 10-15 percent for these people, who work up to 16 hours a day. All this by increasing the salary of the MÁV leaders by 2.5 times. The thing is, there are situations where you can't find words. I'm going to try, and I'm going to ask you to turn your back on this road as soon as possible. You can't do this to employees. Technically, you, honourable government, have been idly watching the MÁV violate its law for years, and now you want to avoid legal obligations, with individual agreements that are less favourable to workers. We find this totally unacceptable. [[15.40]] I don't think it's an attitude that customs are above the law. I think no one can afford that, no government anywhere in the world can do such an exercise. In any case, Possibly Other Politics does not tolerate this without a word, we have submitted our amendments. I ask you not to make a clown out of the Hungarian courts and the Hungarian legal order, and do not put Hungarian workers in such a position, or put railway passengers in such a position. Be kind, accept our amendments and behave as required by the law. Thank you.
u2016-05-13-98	Thank you, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to State Secretary László Palkovics, State Secretary of the Ministry of Human Resources.
u2016-05-13-99	Mr President, I would just like to respond very briefly to the voice of the Member. The fact that foundations and private schools represent value in Hungary, I think that no one doubts this, and this regulation does not call it into question. He drew attention to the importance of the consultation, which is exactly how I see it. The problem, however, mentioned the Association of Foundation and Private Schools, Mr. György Horn, who wrote this letter. Mr.György Horn wrote another letter a few weeks ago when we invited the Association of Foundation and Private Schools to attend the meetings of the Round Table of Public Education as one of the relevant maintainers. Mr.György Horn replied that he would now accept this invitation, but he will not participate in these discussions until we have settled our relationship with the Teachers Movement. I couldn't quite understand it, because it's about school affairs, not just about this type of thing, but also about each other's affairs, but because we're very happy to discuss it with him, of course, if he's involved in these forums. I would like to ask the Congresswoman, if she can help, to persuade Mr Horn György to come to these discussions. This is exactly the type of case we're discussing, for example, the preparation of legislative amendments, so we'll discuss it. Three weeks ago, I had several hours of consultation with the Waldorf Schools Association, and for days we have been talking about either the previous case or any other matter. So I would like to ask you to help me to ensure that if education is a single issue in Hungary, it means a single matter for everyone, and that the Association of Foundation and Private Schools participate in these discussions, that their invitation is continuous, and that they do not try to participate on all political grounds. Thank you.
u2016-05-13-100	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to the Secretary of State, András Aradszki, Ministry of National Development. Mr. Secretary.
u2016-05-13-101	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, I'd respond to Tamás Bellozó's comment, but I see he's out of the room. He can take part in a very exciting presidential campaign, and I wish him good luck from here, too, to participate in a successful democratic presidential campaign in the MSZP, taking down the cursed past, and to consider it more important than taking part in Parliament's meeting here. The thing is... [[Dr. András Schiffer: They're not from KDNP either!]] The KDNP is here with at least two, honourable Member. If I may introduce myself, I am also a representative of KDNP. I would be very careful, please, with this provision governing the information transfer issue. The idea of what we want in energy, electricity, gas and nuclear industries has been raised by limiting the issue of information. I'd start from afar. In November 2015, we have already laid down several basic principles for the Energy Union, and in addition to the security of supply, the decarbonisation route, beyond the development of research innovation, there is an important role to play in energy regulation here in the European Union and through it there is an important vision for market participation in Hungary, the market definition of energy prices, the broadest possible cross-border marketisation of services. This process has started, the Committee has issued several packages, most recently its so-called winter package is being researched, but for example there is also a process for developing the electricity market, which will be an important part of the integration of renewables to a higher degree. So this is how you can see that energy and the market are not two separate things, it is increasingly an organic unit, and more and more energy actors in Hungary are beneficiaries of this market. I do not know how it happened in the past, how it could have been that Hungarian public-owned companies are so defenceless from data requests that are often not expressed without any ulterior thoughts, but it is obvious that, for example, such lawsuits are not against OMV in Austria, a significant proportion of which is state-owned. Of course, the OMV was always the home sheep of the Austrian socdems, even Vranitzky gave the Prime Minister the OMV. So I think that the case law or regulation could be such a mistake, because, by the way, Nord Stream 2, a Russian state company, has simply tied it up with other Western European state companies, I think about EDF, RWE, and I don't know who, I think, is still in this thing, which is also a state company. It was easily concluded, without even knowing a letter from that contract, we could have even learned the economic reasons for it, we could have learned the underlying economic calculations. This is part of the market, and I believe that we cannot put Hungarian public service undertakings at a more disadvantage in terms of how safe they can manage their business portfolios against their competitors, how safe they can protect their business interests and their business data. So I am starting from this, and I appreciate this bill from this point of view that there is a legitimate economic interest, in addition to the fact that the info law itself allows the restriction of the provision of data in the central financial or external interest of national security, or these elements limit the provision of data, but I think that a proportionate regulation must in any case be a place in the Hungarian legal order, because if we do not do this, then we are going to undermine precisely the competitiveness, the ability of public companies to produce taxes, and their ability to create jobs. You can argue about what's proportional or what's not. Proportionality is also a matter of taste in many cases, depending on the view of a judge, it may be his sovereign right to regard what is proportionate or not, but the proposal submitted seeks to do so and maintains the values that it is possible to turn to a court against the permission to provide the information in question, but the fact that it has an economic reason, it may have a rational and public interest justification, it is quite clear that there is no debate between us. [[Dr. András Schiffer's intervention:]] I don't think there's any discussion between us. We may need further consultations in this respect, but I am very confident that this bill will be endowed with content, consensus, constitutional and all kinds of needs and taste-ful content at the time of adoption, which will ensure that Hungarian public companies are sensitive to energy, storage of gas and telecommunications activities, and that their important data, which will determine daily business policy, should not be subject to any data requests that are not specifically supported by the strategy. I think that this protection is a right for Hungarian economic organizations, and I therefore think that, apart from the Presidential campaign of the absent Member, it is possible to debate it intelligently here in this House, and I think that it is in this direction. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2016-05-13-102	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, We now have two-minute speeches. I give the floor to Mr Dániel Z. Carpathian, Jobbik Group. [[15.50]]
u2016-05-13-103	Mr President, Dear House, It does not seem that meaningful debates can be held in this House as to why the government wants to encrypt public contracts and transfers once again after it has failed recently. They're going to fail again, so let's be clear, they don't stand a chance of concealing the fate of the tax forints and concealing any circumvention. Even if, where appropriate, you could identify existing economic interests here. So far, they've only been able to do general, soft, elusive slogans. But because I pressed this button, it was said about 40 minutes ago that the conditions of a stable Hungarian economy now need to be improved and established with this salad. At the same time, this stable-growing economy was able to grow only 0.9 percent in the first quarter, even the most modest government expectations spoke of 1.7, and market expectations were rather around 2 percent, slightly above. While the neighbouring country, Romania, had a multiple of this in the same quarter, where, behind the Romanian growth, it was said that domestic consumption was the main driver of this increase, where in this neighbouring country, Romania, the normal VAT rate declined from 24 to 20 percent, and in terms of food, they moved from 9 percent. There is one question that we have already asked today: why does the government insist on the high level of taxation of consumption in such a climate, when all these indicators show that, in terms of a dried-up economy, we should rather move towards spinning and spinning? This would require a comprehensive VAT reduction, not a braked foam course that you have submitted. But it is a fool's errand to talk about a stable Hungarian economy in these circumstances.
u2016-05-13-104	Thank you, Congressman. For a two-minute speech, I give the floor to Mr András Schiffer, the LMP Group.
u2016-05-13-105	Thank you very much, Mr. President. What we heard here from the Secretary of State was a high school of cynical bullshit. First of all, I'm not in the presidential campaign, so you won't be able to address this to me, but let's be clear before anyone here falls for the texts of Secretary of State Aradski that the current Freedom of Information Act and the former Ptk were in force. 81. §2 of the Act also protected the legitimate business interests of companies in the public domain in the case at hand. So much - and this was said by several opposition groups when the Postal Act was amended - that, for example, Magyar Posta won a lawsuit not so long ago when someone was curious about the newspaper subscription data. Yes, someone, Mr Secretary of State, is the fact that in a normal democracy, a citizen does not need to justify why he requires data. In fact, you don't remember what it was like in the opposition - but you'll learn after 18 - when you were in opposition before 10, you sued with the Gyurcsány-Kóka rule and applauded that if you managed to sue your predecessors for secret contracts. You're nodding, it's just that there's either freedom of information or there's no freedom of information. If it's selective that it exists against the ballib governments, but if Fidesz is in power, it doesn't exist, it doesn't exist. Answer me the question - don't excuse me here, if I may ask you to interpret the law - answer the only question you want to hide. All the other bullshit. The word of the Constitutional Court was clear in relation to the Central Bank Act: obviously an unconstitutional solution where any small, even indirect, violation is likely, let's say, an energy company, no longer has to balance the aspects of freedom of information. As a result of the decision of the Constitutional Court in April, this regulation is clearly unconstitutional and it is also obvious why you do not want to add to the number of the Constitutional Court.
u2016-05-13-106	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, We will continue our work with the speeches by our representatives. I give the floor to Mr László Teleki, MSZP Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2016-05-13-107	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Before I begin my professional contribution, I would just like to make a comment to Mr Aradszki State Secretary that at least the Hungarian Socialist Party has a presidential candidate campaign and a presidential candidate election, unlike in your party, Fidesz, where it has been the same party president for 26 years. [[Dr. András Aradski: That's not true either.]] And there's no way anyone else can fight. So I think it is absolutely important, because I do not think that such a law should mention why Tamás Harangozó has left or where he is or what he is doing. I could ask you why Flórian Farkas wasn't here at yesterday's budget debate, their Prime Minister's representative. [[Dr. András Schiffer's name.]] or even their parliamentary representatives, because I think there are issues that affect the Roma population in Hungary in the budget that we discussed yesterday. So I don't think we should throw highballs back and forth. And to his professional part, I was very happy to listen to Mr. Imre Ritter, who very exclusively outlined today's situation and pointed out some shortcomings, mine - he called it - that are important for the government to pay attention to him, because I think that they do not take seriously the problem that nationalities in Hungary today have. I would like to say a few words about the Roma, because the contribution of the Vocational Training Fund will change. I'm just starting to figure out why the Vocational Training Fund's contribution is gonna change. Because there is also a vocational training law, and I see that these two are not synchronized anywhere, because they are trying to manage the resources and costs of vocational education and training schools at some level. I would ask Mr Secretary of State whether I feel badly that vocational training will be re-depreciated, and I see that vocational schools are trying to make use of the resources that they will try to pass on from this fund as operating costs at some level. I hope that I will not be right, because if vocational training is again put at a disadvantage, there will be a very big problem in Hungary, because skilled workers who are no longer present today will not be able to take part in competitive trades in the next period and will not be able to participate in the competitive market. Therefore, I think it is important to make it clear here that it is not just a matter of giving vocational schools a source that serves their function, but they cannot start vocational training. It was said that there was a consultation with the national governments, including the National Roma Municipality. This did not reassure the Gypsies in Hungary, believe me, if that is what you have said. Not even because yesterday, who was watching Ákos Hadházy's press conference, announced that out of HUF 5 billion, HUF 100 million had been made available to Roma children, the sources of catching up who were supposed to receive this source in education. So I think that if they propose where the funds should go, they will not reassure the Gypsies in Hungary. Therefore, it is important to pay attention to what Imre Ritter said that the nationality committee should definitely go through the budget that concerns nationalities. I myself have tabled quite a lot of amendments, and I hope that the National Roma Municipality will not judge which of them will be realized, but that the minority committee will perhaps receive and express its opinion that it sees, for example, in the part where we would set up a model school in Budapest and in several cities with county rights, in order to promote the education of disadvantaged people. As a result, I think it is a very important activity. You said, and what we see in the material, Mónika Dunai, what he said, and I think it is very important, in his kindergarten section I should agree that kindergarten development work can be seen, and I think it can be said that all praise is because children from the age of three have to take part in kindergarten care. However, I would also like to express my opinion in this legislative package, which has appeared in recent days on my part, that prevention is not given sufficient emphasis either in the Finance Act or in the Basic Law, because from here on out, if we say that children with multiple disadvantages need extra pedagogical methods, I agree with that, only where prevention is. There are 550-600 Gypsy colonies in Hungary, 110 thousand Roma live in these settlements, and those who live there need not only what they need, but it is also important that they receive a supplement by educating people with multiple disadvantages, but to change the life forms there, how do you see structurally on housing, employment, health care and education, whether you can get children who are there at the moment. [[16.00]] Because in this programme, however, I do not see that they can get along properly, even if I welcome again the fact that the framework for caring for children has risen to HUF 6,500 per capita, which is important, but I will say it again: it will not reach the children I am talking about. Therefore, I think it is very important that you deal with this complex programme, all the more so, because in 2011, you adopted it, your government adopted the national Roma strategy, which consists of four pillars, and we do not see from these four pillars in the budget and in the underlying laws that there will be a synchronous situation at some level. I therefore believe and believe that if they do not think structurally in the budget and in the underlying laws, they cannot carry out their task; they have never been able, by the way, to do so, but I see that in 2017 they will not be able to deliver even better on the commitments that have been projected, for example, in education or employment or housing. Here we were talking about one million jobs, one million jobs, and now we see that it will take place in one area, and that is the area of public employment, which is not bad anyway, I would like to add, but I think that those who are in the number of public workers are cruelly good at cosmeticizing statistics, but this is not good at finding a way out, how to get out of there. Therefore, I think it is important - once again with a thought to the Vocational Training Fund - to manage the Vocational Training Fund and to allocate financial resources from which you can see that either basic training or adult training can start, because otherwise what I said to those who are otherwise in need of a profession and are able to get out of public employment, from the trap they are in, is that there is only one way to do it: if the state brings these people to the profession, and these are mostly people from disadvantaged families, whether they are Roma or poor, but the only thing is certain that you have something to do on this issue, and you have something to do. One more thing for vocational training. I mentioned that what I see in this is that they want to strengthen the operational resources of graduation institutions, not vocational training. I also think of this because you have eliminated regional retraining centres, employment centres, vocational training centres, which have worked well, worked well even in your time, and you have been able to measure absolutely how many vocational workers there are, how many apprentices there are, and how much of these are adults, and how much are young students. Then there was the research and training institute István Türr, which also ceased, transformed, and now took over in the entire structure of the state. On this basis, it can be said that they are rushing into vocational training and that the work they are doing is opaque. So I ask again whether vocational training is only by developing, rethinking or synchronising the vocational training law, because my fear is that it is not. Once again, I would like to underline that I should like to pay close attention to what Mr Ritter said, Mr Imre spoke, that it is important to comply with the conciliation processes, because that is what I am seeing and, by the way, what my colleague István Józsa has said in recent years, that we are trying to put the existing laws into smaller cooperation systems to talk about them, but the action is not behind it. Therefore, I would reverse it: if there is a law, then an action programme must be established, as is the case, and the action programme must be implemented and financial resources allocated to it. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of MSZP and ethnic advocates.]]
u2016-05-13-108	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Secretary of State Péter Banai Benő, Ministry of National Economy. Secretary of State, you have the floor.
u2016-05-13-109	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Mr László Teleki asked three questions, asked questions in three groups, so allow me, Member, and allow me, ladies and gentlemen, to answer these points in order of what has been said. First of all, we sent the bill on the basis of which the 2017 budget was based - I repeat - to the national authorities, and the opinion agreed by the Roma municipality. Regardless of this formal discussion - I repeat, and I hope that the spokesmen can confirm us - we have been open to all formal and informal discussions and we are open to it. As far as national minority subsidies are concerned, it should also be pointed out in this context, specifically in the case of national minority subsidies, that monitoring on nationalities is not only a formal and informal consultation, but I also think it is evident that, over the last two years, national minority self-governments have doubled, and we have discussed and agreed on the 2017 budget bill that we see a further chance for this doubling of funding to increase further with the 2017 budget bill. I therefore think that from a financial point of view, the support of Hungarian ethnic minorities can be characterised by a very positive process. As regards the second part of the comments raised by the Member, vocational training, the government has often received criticisms that put vocational training too much priority over, for example, high school training. The importance of vocational training on the basis of labour market processes, I think, above all issues. The Member, too, I think you can see that in many sectors in the country and in many regions, we are no longer faced with too much unemployment, but with a shortage of labour. It is precisely because of this lack of labour that the government has decided, or Parliament has decided, to transform the system of vocational training. We have tried to follow the best examples, I can mention the German vocational training system, the dual vocational training system, and the government has transformed the institutional system of vocational training through the model of this system, these best examples. The primary objective of institutional transformation is, as appropriate, to provide young people leaving educational institutions with knowledge that can be used in the labour market. In addition to this institutional transformation, the amendment of the 2016 Budget Act before the Honourable Parliament, and the 2017 budget, according to which vocational education and training schools will receive additional resources, will also serve to strengthen vocational education and training. Of course, vocational training has another channel: active employment tools. The government intends to spend more than HUF 100 billion from domestic and EU funds in 2017 to ensure that labour market demand is as high as possible. It's a community service program. I agree with the Member that the public works programme is a solution for those who want to work, but cannot work in the competition sector; to put it simply: instead of 22 800 HUF, they will receive a net employment of at least 50 thousand HUF, which means more than 50 thousand HUF. And I also agree that this is an optimal transition period. This is precisely why the government introduced incentive elements to simplify and financially support the transition from public work programmes to the primary labour market. Allow me, Mr President, to debate the comment that the positive employment data would be primarily due to the public works programme. Over the last five to six years, employment growth has been largely achieved through additional employment in the competitive sphere, which is supported by the statistical data available to us. I repeat: I agree with the Member that the focus should be on vocational training, both the bill on which the budget is based and the budget for next year, in this direction. [[16.10]] As regards the situation of the Roma, and if it is not about the Roma, but about the situation of disadvantaged social groups in a different approach, Mr President also pointed out that the regular child protection discount in the bill on the basis of the budget before us will increase from HUF 5800 to HUF 6000 twice a year and to HUF 6500 in the case of people with cumulative disadvantages. This substantial financial contribution is, of course, part of the catching-up of disadvantaged groups; I think that compulsory preschooling is a significant step in this direction; it is a significant step forward to extend the feeding of children, since the possibility of later catching up is ensured by compulsory and compulsory feeding of children in the eradication of child poverty, such as education systems, kindergartens, school training and child poverty. Here - just to mention the numbers - the 2017 budget bill for the children's meal accounts for nearly HUF 74 billion, which is more than double the level six years ago. I therefore think that there is progress in the areas mentioned by the Member, and I agree with you that the issues raised are important, whether in terms of vocational training or catching up with disadvantaged groups, I repeat: I believe that in these areas, too, there is progress in the next year's budget and the related rules. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-05-13-110	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Statement will be made by Mr András Schiffer, Member of the LMP Group. You have the floor.
u2016-05-13-111	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, An interesting situation has arisen because the bill, which is being debated, is called the bill on the basis of the central budget for 2017. Compared to this, there are several points that can be associated with relatively complicated logic buffers in the 2017 state budget, because if you think of some private budgets, then the relationship may be more understandable. So out of the four issues that I would like to address, the first of these is, of course, a continuation of the previous debate to try to permanently obscure the operation of public and municipal companies by embedding them in the budget base salad. And yes, what this has to do with the central budget is hard to understand. I note here that, after the Constitutional Court made a decision before 11 - true - setting the framework for salad legislation, a more serious legal certainty problem can be raised when the government explicitly submits a bill to establish the budget, and there it also deals with areas that are not in any context with the foundation of the budget. But to get to the point, it seems like you're acting like when you're thrown out the door, you're crawling back out the window, or vice versa, because the Constitutional Court's decision in April was pretty clear and black and white. There has been only one thing since the Constitutional Court reduced its number to 11 people, and you may think that this is already a more favourable number for you. The amendment that has been put before this House obviously involves the permanent abolition of transparency in terms of public money, public wealth, in so far as it concerns public companies, municipal companies. Because let's be clear: the Freedom of Information Act, the same law as the one previously in force, was Ptk. 81. § 3 (), he treated the situation with a very fine three-step system that, if a public-owned company is otherwise competing in a market, how to balance the business interest in competition and, moreover, the public interest in transparency and freedom of information. Moreover, in the last quarter of a century - since we are talking about at least a quarter of a hundred rules that were previously laid down in the Civil Code - as my fellow Members pointed out earlier, there has been a very precise practice of the courts to apply this consideration. An example of this was the case I have already cited when Magyar Posta Zrt. in connection with the various sales numbers of the newspaper subscription business, and Magyar Posta Zrt. has won this case under the laws in force. Therefore, it is not true that the existing legislation would otherwise not consider the legitimate business interests of companies competing on the market, but publicly owned. However, in contrast to the legislation in force - which I note: it has been 25 years in the Hungarian legal order - you have made a proposal here that if and if a public-owned company is likely to harm any or all indirect interests, then the lawsuit can be closed and the public-owned company can be declared as a winner, because in this case there is a public-interest violation, there is nothing to see here. In addition, they give special benefits to public companies in the energy sector. Why? Somehow we didn't get an answer from the Secretary of State. Is it not, by any chance, that István Garancsi, who belongs to the narrower circle of the Prime Minister, or to MET of his interest, would again like to give a discount that they do not want the public to know about? What does the draft legislation refer to the foreign interest of energy companies? That's very interesting. What do you want to hide? What kind of dirty business are they up to with the Russians? What's the foreign interest here? On three points, the unconstitutionality of this regulation can be raised. One of the things I have just said is that the Constitutional Court's decision on the amendment of the Central Bank Act in April under the current Fundamental Law is clear: freedom of information may be limited by reference to business interests, as long as there really is a serious business interest, which the court will weigh with due consideration on the basis of the rules in force. It should therefore not, in itself, touch the existing legislation. Everything that goes backwards from the current legislation is also against the law on the basis of the decision of the Constitutional Court in April. Moreover, the situation is that, in fact, in 2011 you created a more favourable situation than the previous constitution in terms of freedom of information. Because the Fundamental Law does not merely declare the right to freedom of information or the right to freedom of the press, the right to know and disseminate data of general interest, but it is very well developed that the fate of public money, of public property, must be transparent. So it seems that they were still in momentum in 2011, how to distribute the former government because of its corrupt policy, and in a hurry they forgot that here the Fundamental Law was about to be poured into concrete and the ice cream could lick back. Well, that's what's happening now, because if we compare Article 38, we compare Article 39 to Article VI. The fact is that the current Fundamental Law does indeed protect freedom of information in the case of public companies even more than the former Constitution. That's the thing. The following is an illegal and legally binding story and begins with the fact that you wish to amend a law here in the underlying salad, but also the functioning of publicly owned companies is subject to two other laws: the Law on State Property and the Law on National Property. All 2007 CVIs. Act 5. §2 and the 2011 CXCVI. law, so the relevant provisions of the national property law are at least strangely embarrassed by the law that is now being amended. It is simply a matter of adding to the Freedom of Information Act the law on state property and national property, then simply what we are about to create will not be understood. It is also a 20-year constitutional practice that, if there is a contradiction between laws that otherwise hinders the enforcement of fundamental rights, it is in itself an unconstitutional legal certainty breach. But let's keep going, as it were, the Freedom of Information Act - which, by the way, is Article VI of the Fundamental Law. Article 2 (2) of the Act on Freedom of Information, issued on the basis of a basic statutory mandate, does not say that if you copy those words from this law with copy paste that you have an interest in business, financial, national security or foreign affairs, then the farmer is free, everything can be veiled, and from tomorrow everything can be taken home by the Fideszes. That's not what the Freedom of Information Act says. The relevant pass of the Freedom of Information Act (a) to (h), if I remember correctly, lists the interests on which a sectoral law may restrict the ability to know certain data of general interest. You can limit it, so it doesn't rule it out, so it doesn't mean that you can't know anything from here on out; on the other hand, that that law has to regulate it then. [[16.20]] The latest amendment to the Central Bank Act is also against the law precisely because what they did - after the President of the Republic commented that there was a glitch here, he sent it out to the Constitutional Court with a constitutional veto - was that they had taken over the term of central, financial and foreign exchange policy interest, because, oh, this is in the Freedom of Information Act as a restrictive interest, and they thought it was settled from now on. Well, it's not like that. On the basis of the amendment to the Central Bank Act, the story seems to be that the central bank, say, has an interest in the banknote printing works, I am prepared to believe that there are elements in the activity of the banknote printing company, where there can indeed be a central financial, foreign exchange policy interest, on which the public should be restricted, I believe, but I would have liked to have written that down in the law. So it is not enough to describe that it is a central financial and foreign exchange policy interest, it should have been described that, for example, in the context of banknote printing, such data and such data are not available in this regard. That would be a fair regulation. That's not what they did there, and that's not what they're doing now. It's not enough to write here that it's business, foreign affairs, central financial interest. At least they would have taken the trouble, Mr Aradski, to write it down, for example, for foreign affairs, what extra agreements we make with the Russians after the nuclear pact. This is clear, if you will, in some ways, a constitutional solution. But to make it look like it's for foreign affairs? Well, the paper can handle anything. Whether the Constitutional Court can handle everything, if it doesn't work badly, is, of course, a separate question. Finally, there is also a serious constitutional objection to the bill and also in the context of the grounds on which the energy sector is privileged. If the State participates in market movements - I am not opposed to this at all - to maintain different companies, on what basis can it be highlighted with regard to the enforcement of a fundamental right as an even stronger interest when a public company is motoring on the energy market? Why is the energy sector better than, say, post office, telecommunications? Why is it better than, say, shipments of waste? Because the fact is that since 92 the Constitutional Court has had an unbroken practice, unbroken, because in the last six years it has not been broken that anti-constitutional discrimination is any legislative technique that makes unjustified discrimination within a homogeneous group. And the concept of a homogeneous group applies not only to natural persons, citizens, but also to farming organisations. Thus, the unconstitutional nature of this legislative solution also exists because there is simply no reason to discriminate between public companies or exactly between public participation markets. Why is the state's involvement in the energy sector more secret than in other sectors? Once again, I would like to point out that, if you want to protect MOL, I would like to draw your attention, Mr Aradsk State Secretary, to the fact that, in the wake of the Civil Code and the Civil Code, the current Freedom of Information Act, which you have created, is currently protecting the legitimate business interests of MOL or other companies that are typically competing in the market, which are also engaged in state action. I would stress once again that Magyar Posta won a lawsuit within a year when someone - I think it doesn't matter who it is - is a fundamental right that I don't have to justify it if I want to use it - was curious about their newsletter subscription data. So I'm going to say it slowly so that you understand that the law protects the legitimate market interests of public companies or public-owned companies competing in the market. What you're doing here is more than that. If someone indirectly refers to the possibility that I might have a violation of the public, then there is no transparency. And let me tell you one more thing: when it comes to the contractual partners of a public or public company, I think that if someone is contracted in a state of law with a public-owned company, they demand a public-government order, then the business discretion includes that these business data, these market information, these contracts can indeed be made public. It should be considered whether a person wishes to enter into a business relationship with the state or with the municipality. It is not the case in Hungary at the present time, and it has not been the case in the last 25 years that different businesses would have broken their hands there, that it is not so certain that I would like to do business with a local government or a state, because, oh, what will happen, such information will be made public. The situation in Hungary is quite the opposite. Today, in recent years, there have been no real economic successes in Hungary. Take a look at the development of the investment rate by stripping it away from the effects of development resources and assembly plants. Today, those who make big money in this country break up big money because they deal with you, for example, through government communications, or go into the state-controlled energy business. It's not much of an achievement that people suddenly get on the top 100 list. Someone who's a gasman suddenly turns into a billionaire. It's not a great intellectual achievement, it's not a great innovation, it's the fact that people are close to the porter and want to do business with the state, they want to do business with local governments. Remember, this is going to be a very bitter fast. I'm not just referring to the election result. He will have a bitter fast because it is not possible to run an economy without punishment for a long time when the government boasts, in fact, that there is not a real achievement behind some economic successes, but that there will be billions of people as a result of mercy management. This means that innovation from such a country is virtually destroyed, and at the level of the Hungarian-owned enterprises that are actually competing and want to show some performance, investments will cease if they have not yet ceased. The fast of this will be that simply the sources of long-term sustainable development will be slowly, but surely blocked. That is why I think that the amendment that permanently depends on the movement of wealth and money of state-owned and municipal-owned companies will be in force only until 2018 and, on the other hand, there should be no doubt that after 2018, it will certainly look beyond this curtain, speaking with bad Hungarianness. A new government will look at what you have done behind the curtain that is now being pulled, and this will have legal consequences. You can't play this unpunished. I think it would be much clearer to stand up to the pulpit and tell you exactly what players' interests are. Dear Parliament, There is something else here which has little to do with the foundation of the budget, namely: this is the only letter amendment to the law on registered partnerships, which my colleague Bernadett Szél also spoke about. [[16.30]] And it is also obvious that the registered partners - and not only the LGBT people, but even if not a large number, but also special couples have resorted to this legal institution in recent years - who have trusted in the word of the law, have acquired rights, the small amendment to these couples, these fellow citizens, which is that instead of this law, the law must be applied, at least to dissuade their position, the right of succession, the legal position of their assets at all. It is about the fact that the general and implied rule allows that, where the legal system grants or imposes obligations on spouses, these automatically apply to registered partners, with obviously the narrow exception laid down in the registered partnership law. I want to say here that if the motivation behind the amendment was for the CSOK, or for the first married couple's benefit, it would have been a much clearer, more honest thing to do with this law in such a way that they specifically tell me what they think, because I think that perhaps even some kind of agreement could be reached in this. But that is not what they did, but the amendment hidden in the budget salad will allow any law to treat registered partners differently from now on, and from then on the application of this reference rule will be completely impossible. There are two cases here: one is the law, unless otherwise provided by the law, and the other is the law, if the application of the provision is not excluded by the law. In addition, if the law does not otherwise provide for the change of turnaround, it simply provides registered partners with the right to self-indulgence, including the LGBT people, the same-sex couples and those who have resorted to this legal institution as separate couples and partners after 2009. It would have been unfair, it would have been shady, it would have been more straightforward, if you had thought of the CSOK and the sjai discount, then, in view of this, the government's family policy goals would have been explicitly passed through the registered partnership law. I think it would be much more straightforward to speak openly, not to keep people in check with sly, stigmatizing hints and different horse-zungs, keeping couples in check, who have simply done nothing but build their lives in trust in the word of the law, and from now on, we will have to watch with lawyers how various amendments make them completely disenfranchised. Dear Parliament, I would like to say two more things, which have already been affected by my fellow Member, Mr Bernadett Szél. One is the position of alternative schools, alternative pedagogy. I understand the reference made by Secretary of State Palkovics that there is a serious problem, if the parties are not constructive in the negotiations, but with the fact that he may even have the truth in this, we, as well as the Members, are still waiting for a meaningful response. On the one hand, the 117th. § explicitly recognizes only the additional service, so if an alternative pedagogical program is used quite simply and the power does not recognise this as an additional service, then this alternative pedagogical institution can be virtually closed. So, 117. Paragraph 9 of Article 9 quite simply disqualifies these foundations, these private schools. In this regard, what is the purpose of this regulation - we are here in the discussion of the underlying salad - it would be appropriate to put clean water in the glass, where appropriate, to initiate an amendment to the Ministry, which makes it more clear that the government's aim is not to make alternative pedagogical schools impossible. The other case concerns kindergartens, where budget support cannot be claimed for opening hours of less than eight hours. Once again, the private kindergartens, the kindergartens working with alternative pedagogical methods, are completely impossible. Once again, I ask that, if this is not the aim, here in front of Parliament, no matter who else has been offended here in the course of previous discussions or negotiations, let Parliament make clear what the intention is, and if it is not a goal, and I very much hope that the aim is not to make the kindergartens working in alternative pedagogical methods impossible, then the author should use a clarification amendment. And last but not least, there is also a proposal of no doubt linked to the budget in so far as Andy G. Vajna's budget is sufficiently supported; this is the amendment to the Film Fund in the budget salad. They're giving the Film Fund powers, it's unprecedented. There have been a lot of crazy ideas in this House over the last 25 years, but to give the Film Fund authority as the Orbán government has established the National Film Office, which works under the supervision of the NMHH with authority! It seems that this is not enough, because Andy G. Vajna, the bravest Hungarian, has to be given special licenses and authority permissions, so from now on, if anyone wants to shoot in Budapest or anywhere in the country, then Andy G. Vajna must be applied if we understand this proposal correctly. But that is not enough, because they also deal with the training of film professionals, which is once again difficult to interpret as a proposal to base the state budget. This is also indirectly, but the proposal for the foundation of Andy G. Vajna's budget, because what kind of, not even a professional reason is it, but what good taste is it that basically assigns the entire Hungarian film production to a single Hollywood producer? So now we are not only talking about the Film Fund, but we are also talking about the authority's permissions, so the authority's permissions related to the locations of the shootings in Hungary are there, and he will have the right to provide for the training of the film professional as well. And then you're gonna put the....national adjective next to the Film Fund and the Film Bureau? Can they really sell this cynicism to their own voters? ! It is worth finally having an answer as to why you are constantly passing out a person, who now has authority powers who are sitting on the top of an offshore network, so by your legislation you are helping the income flow from Hungary through offshore channels at even higher speeds. But speaking of Andy G. Vajna, you can't just walk past yesterday's big event. Obviously, it is a coincidence that one day after Andy G. Vajna's interest in the cartel was found guilty by the Hungarian Competition Authority, János Lázár realized that it was still necessary to amend the public procurement law, the public procurement law which was the second in Hungary only during your regency, and since it came into force on 1 October, this is now the second amendment. What was the first amendment about? The first amendment was about allowing family members of the Fidesz Chorephites to participate, but let the Prime Minister and the ministers and members of the various Fidesz powers participate in public procurement. In the Legislative Committee, Bence Tuzson defended that by keeping this conflict of interest rule in place, the public procurement market would be impossible. Well, the question is, what do we think of the public procurement market? If the only way you can imagine public procurement is if relatives and buddies compete with each other, then that's gonna make it impossible. Now the second strike seems to be quite rightly included in the autumn law that it should not participate in public procurement - and the opposition agreed - who was caught by the Hungarian Competition Authority for carteling within a certain period of time. One day after the decision of the GVH, this obviously purely professional bill arrives, that from now on it is an optional exclusion: if the power is in the mood, it will be allowed to compete, if someone is, to say, a good cartel, our cartelist, can compete, be in the public procurement market, if someone is bad cartelist, not our man, and we exclude it from the public procurement market. This is the kidnapping of the entire Hungarian national economy. This is what this story is about, and in many respects, the salad that underpins the budget is not a foundation for the central budget, but a foundation for the budget of some oligarchs, some families with fidesz, and that is why we will reject it. Thank you very much.
u2016-05-13-112	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, We will continue our work with two-minute speeches. I give the floor to Mr László Teleki, MSZP Group. [[16.40]]
u2016-05-13-113	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, I asked for the floor in two minutes because I think that Minister of State Banai has given a very fair answer and not an arrogant answer. That's very important, because most of the time, we tend to get arrogant answers. But I hope that if I commend you, you won't be harmed inside the government. This is important because you see well that the vocational training fund and the institution systems giving you a diploma must be connected somewhere, so we do not have a debate with this, but you also saw very well that the system that comes out of public employment can only be established by strengthening the professional worker system. You said with a sentence that the National Roma Municipality finds the budget and the foundation law that we are discussing today to be in order. I am not talking to you, I am just saying to the protocol that this violates the Roma in Hungary, that the National Roma Municipality does not see the problems that we have and does not indicate when preparing the budget that we should put in the budget line for the eradication of Gypsy colonies that can address that problem. You can see that every budget year in the last decades - last year and the year before - has not been in - there has been, by the way, an amount in your administration and in our time, a small amount, but at least this amount, but the national government does not say that there is no source for this right now. I think it is important, as I said, that it is important, as Mónika Dunai indicated, that it is important to deal with children with multiple disadvantages, to prevent as few children as possible from being disadvantaged as possible, who should be educated, because if that situation is eliminated there, the nearly 100-120 thousand people will come out of the Gypsy settlements, then there will be no need for so many children to be snipers or participate in the education of any number of disadvantaged people. Therefore, I think that the national government has a great responsibility, and I think that it is politically woven when it says that it finds it okay. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2016-05-13-114	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Mr István Józsa, MSZP Group, has applied for a speech. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2016-05-13-115	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, The character and preparation of the salad law has already been mentioned, and I think it can be seen from the simple use of words that this is not a preparatory, but a follow-up. The salad law shares the fate of the budget, so it may even be worse in a certain approach, since on the one hand there are many, perhaps not excessive, slang terms, that there is a sly provision in this salad law which is not at all linked to the budget, and many amendments are only very indirect and very remote in relation to the budget proposal. The salad law consists of a total of 253 paragraphs, so it is a grandiose law, and in this very complex salad, many laws are based on non-budget amendments, including the 2004 II on the already mentioned motion picture, with the government's two favorites. The amendment of Law 78-96 is very extensive in the law on the basis of which the budget is based, in a comprehensive manner. In addition, the amendment of the 2008 Act on the Promotion of Artistic Organisations and Specific Employment Rules has been included in the list of laws on the basis of which the budget is based in two places. Section 2 and Section 206-215. §. On this basis, I ask why it could not be included, for example, in the regulation of specific activities in the field of health, in the regulation of effective action against curiosity, when we heard these days, following a court decision, that there was a death of a small child in certain branches of unspoken curiosing, better known as natural medicine, or in the conduct of parents. Why can't a foundational law deal with the burning health situation? We held a health debate here, and Mr Secretary of State made several points of admission. You can see that the health system is in a spiral of collapse, the nurses are in such a number, they are already in such a small number that it could be dealt with in a foundational law that they are committed to drawing them back to health care and restoring the functioning of hospital departments, clinics, or, for example, to curb activities related to health care, but not always linked to health, which are bordering on curiosing. Why don't you deal with an important issue of trust that is very closely linked to healing, which means trust in health care? So if someone has any doubt that if they get into a hospital care that, in addition to the fact that they may be treated for their diagnosis, what additional infections they may be exposed to, what else can happen to them simply because you are underfunded by health care, you do not deal with it in substance, or in the budget, by providing 168 billion more resources for the following year, out of which hundreds of billions of debts will be settled immediately. I have only done this as a small detour in relation to the specific regulation of performing arts, and it may be worth saying more about it. Although it is morbid that you are barely related to the budget, you can say that the horse's foot hangs out, that the 1999 XLIII on cemeteries and funerals. Laws 65 and 75 are also to be amended. the description of the article between the sections of the article. So this doesn't exactly fit in here. The provisions on spatial development and spatial planning are also amended by Articles 167 to 177. I'm sorry, but I'm sorry. Or what really isn't exactly the basis of the budget, although it may be linked to health care, which I've missed before, is that the amendment to the 2005 law on general regulation, on medicinal products for human use and amending the laws governing the pharmaceutical market is described in quite detail in the 193-199. I'm sorry, but I'm sorry. An amendment to the 2006 law on the provision of safe and economical pharmaceutical and medical aid and general rules for the distribution of medicinal products has also been included. I'm sure it's about the drug register, but there are areas of health that I've already referred to, which is as important as that, and it's not in the salad law. It is quite obvious that the legislative package on which the budget is based does not have the importance of pushing through the legislative preparation tasks of government bersers and increasing the budget salad with proposals that do not fit at all. In fact, the government withdraws the proposals from the debate in Parliament with these constrainments, since, in the midst of many laws, these inappropriate provisions, otherwise, are subject to a lot of sensitive issues for the government. [[16.50]] So the government did not undertake to come up with independent legislation on burial, cemeteries, moving pictures, performing art, land development, and tried to hide it in a set of foundation laws. The lack of preparation of the proposal is also reflected in the fact that in the days following the submission of the proposal on 3 May, the various organisations started, if you will. Attila Handó Tünde and Attila Péterfalvi's wearout indicates that they were not even able to come to terms with the negotiations. On 11 May, the President of the National Court of Justice submitted substantive observations to the Chairman of the Committee on Budgets, listing the objections directly affecting the courts through five pages, objecting to the amendment of laws which were not originally included in the text sent to the administrative conciliation, at least as shown by the five-page document he had listed. On 9 May, Attila Péterfalvi, president of NAIH, expressed his position through 14 pages, in which he expressed two substantive objections concerning the fundamentals of freedom of information and the right to information self-determination. Péterfalvi also refers to the fact that a different version from the text sent to the administrative conciliation was submitted to the Parliament in essential elements. This is also a violation, if you like, of the legislative law, because it can be regarded as a proposal in accordance with the legislative law, which has been fully passed through the administrative conciliation. What, even at Attila Péterfalvi, cut the fuse? This is CXXII of 2009 on the more efficient operation of publicly owned companies. amendment of the law. The present proposal is 99. In its section on the more efficient operation of publicly owned companies. The proposal would secretly exclude publicly owned companies from the requirement of data disclosure, i.e. they could essentially hide whatever they wanted. It is not taxatically defined what is detrimental to the market interest and what is not. The 99th. § 2 would supplement the law on the more efficient operation of public-owned companies, and it was smuggled in here that the public-owned economic company providing electricity production, electricity trading, gas trading, distribution of electricity, gas storage, transmission system management, district heating, central data collection processing system operation, as well as the public-owned economic company providing public-owned services in support of regulatory record-keeping or carrying out these activities, as well as the contract of an undertaking managed by it directly or indirectly under the law on unfair market conduct and on the prohibition of competition, in connection with the function of a trustee in support of that activity or its conduct, as well as its business, financial, technical, commercial, market data relating to the preparation, conclusion of this contract, or the establishment of decisions relating thereto, in the light of the law on information self-determination and information freedom, may not be recognised for a period of five years, but no longer than 30 years after the termination of the scope. This long list for these three words, or if I add the duration a little more precisely, these data will not be available for 30 years. So you want to hide what, according to the Transparency Act, should be basically familiar with the requirement of transparency in public finances. Furthermore, the information relating to the business activities of the publicly owned company and the undertaking managed by it relating to the acquisition or disclosure of which, directly or indirectly, in relation to its economic activity in the management of the public-owned company or the undertaking managed by it, may, in particular from the point of view of fair market competition, cause a disadvantage or disproportionate damage or jeopardise the legal, financial, economic and market interests of the public-owned company or the undertaking managed by it. Now, there's nothing to categorize, it doesn't take too much imagination that basically all management data can be encrypted. The case of Chancellor OMV and Chancellor Vranitzky has been discussed here. So it is possible to implement the public with the tools of the cleanliness of public life, with the supervisory board on a par-based basis, even if they do not put the data on the wall, but this would not require unilateral supervisory authorities, it would not require encrypted data, but a restoration of public confidence, which you do not even seek in the system of national cooperation, which you can very unilaterally see through theft of 266 billion of György Matolcsy, which means you intend to exercise. In particular, it is inappropriate to take your approach if the acquisition, exploitation, disclosure or disclosure of data by another person would give undue advantage to the competitor of the publicly owned company or the undertaking it manages. This is interesting only because you want to create a monopoly position for state-owned operators, so competition on the market is becoming less and less possible. The real problem of MVM, the Hungarian Post and other public companies operating on the competitive market is to meet the expectations of the public money they spend, the public service they manage, so that they do not suffer market disadvantage. However, the task can also be solved within the framework of the laws in force. The new bill on the limitation of the public's rights, which the National Authority for Data Protection and Freedom of Information has now attacked, has made excuses, so it does not strike the balance, but rather eliminates it, even as it has tried so far, it intervenes roughly on the issue of information freedom. At last week's press conference, János Lázár founded the amendment by saying that the Hungarian State is also engaged in market activities, and that there was a huge amount of state wealth, which is partly operated by the State under market conditions. The question is whether the State is entitled to the protection of market secrets on the market as other operators. When Magyar Posta is in a liberalised market, as a bank or any parcel service is entitled to the protection of the business secret, Magyar Posta is also entitled to this. This is true of all public companies operating under market conditions. In all of this, János Lázár is basically right, the problem is that this bill does not limit confidentiality to information concerning competition in the market, but rather generates secrecy. János Lázár forgot to mention that this is exactly the case at present, so sensitive market data is still protected by the law. [[17.00]] It is not the case that today everything about the management of a publicly owned company would be public, you want to introduce it now, but the general principle is the public, at present the public, so that the data can be made known, but if the controller can prove a disproportionate breach of the data's release, then he is in a position to hold it back. Ladies and gentlemen, Compared to this, the ownership rights of publicly owned companies are exercised in vain by the Hungarian National Asset Manager, a minister or local government and its final owners, however, are the taxpayers, the Hungarian citizens. Thus, to claim that their private privacy in terms of their management data is as complete as that of a private company is, to say the least, excessive and unfounded. Indeed, by evacuating and decrediting the glass pocket rules adopted in Europe, the situation will lead to the fact that public-owned companies which are part of the public wealth, often fulfilling government orders or doing political favors, would not be involved in the affairs of those taxpayers. You also want to eliminate the possibility of control. [[Dr. János Latorcai, vice-president of the Parliament, takes the chair.]] NAIH President Attila Péterfalvi also pointed out to the legislator that several aspects of the salad law raise serious constitutional concerns. It is particularly interesting that Tünde Handó himself objects to these provisions and states that, on the basis of the undisturbed practice of the Curia, companies managing public money are obliged to issue the data contained in the proposal. Ladies and gentlemen, The situation is spookyly similar to what you have put forward to encrypt the National Bank Foundations, to encrypt your spending. So, just as the Curia stated in the case that public money does not lose the character of public money because the National Bank has unpacked its people's profits into foundations, so does the wealth of state public property companies not lose the character of public money. So the legal situation is quite analog, the encryption, as it was not permissible there, is of particular concern in this case as well. We suggest that you find a much more correct solution. Let's just say they're not trying to reverse the current situation, but they're introducing forward-looking categories of information that clearly define what is sensitive market data and what is useful for transparency when it's known. Given the fact that this year's budget needs to be amended now, this will be the next agenda, so it seems pointless to discuss next spring's draft budget, and the discussion of the underlying bill before us is equally uncertain. After all, the amendments to the relevant sectoral laws will take place at least once before the end of the year, and the government would be better off helping the legislative work by drawing up specific fair laws. I would just like to make one last point on the social area. Despite some minor changes in the social field, the government is still not making any meaningful progress in order to reduce the number of people living in poverty in Hungary today, so that people in need, especially children and older people, can obtain adequate quality and quantity of social services and subsidies. The government still does not correct its crimes in the field of poverty, in the training of scapegoats and in the area of severe austerity. On this basis, we propose this salad law to be revoked, and we propose that they try to clean up this legislative chaos within the framework of specific sectoral and sectoral laws. Thank you, Mr. President.
u2016-05-13-116	Thank you very much, Congressman. I will ask my fellow Members if anyone else wishes to speak in the debate. [[There's no candidate.]] I do not see an application; the general debate is closed. I would like to ask Mr Péter Benő Banai, as rapporteur, whether he wishes to respond to what was said in the debate. [[For signal:]] Yeah. Here you go, Secretary of State. You have the floor.
u2016-05-13-117	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Allow me to begin by discussing a bill containing amendments to quite a number of laws. At the same time, some of these broad legislative changes have been criticised. I have also included in that that that is why the Honourable Parliament agrees with a significant part of the amendments tabled. These included significant items to which I could refer back, such as the extension of the prohibition of contracting or granting subsidies to offshore companies to the local government sector, or amendments such as the clarification of borrowing rules, the rules of municipal companies, or amendments to the closing accounting law, such as a new proposal to present additional information on government debt developments. There were, of course, issues in which the speakers disagreed in the debate. I think it's natural. However, on a conceptual genre issue, namely whether it is necessary, whether it is appropriate now to discuss the laws establishing next year's budget and to make a decision to the Parliament at the end of the session, I think that the information that has been given has not led to the poor practice that the government is following. Both during the foundation of the current 2017 budget and in previous years, the practice was that the budget and the underlying laws were discussed at the same time by the Parliament. I therefore think that this practice is right, and it is also appropriate to negotiate the budget and the underlying laws in line with the Parliament's negotiating schedule. I also believe that it is appropriate to include a number of provisions of the underlying laws in a comprehensive law. I repeat, the proposals tabled have a direct and indirect impact on budget figures, and the laws raised in the debate, where this relationship has become questionable, such as the change of the cemetery law or the film law, I think it has turned out that these are also amendments which, I repeat, have an impact on next year's budget figures. The question of transparency, the amendment on why it is necessary to clearly regulate the provision of information to public companies, has given a clear answer to the criticisms by Secretary of State Aradski. Allow me to say, in summary, that I do not think that the regulation that stands in most countries of the European Union, and which indeed limits the provision of information to public-owned companies, would be against the law in Hungary. When we talk about what is in the public interest, whether it is in the public interest to provide information as widely as possible, whether it is in the public interest that public-owned companies can disclose information to everyone, we also need to put it on the table so that, many times, I think the public interest is in the direction that public-owned companies and public-owned companies can preserve this property. In many cases, the release of information would result in a deterioration in the position of these companies and in the position of public-owned companies, so I think that, also on the basis of international examples, which were discussed in the debate, the change submitted is justified. [[17.10]] Of course, it is the government's duty to listen to comments and opinions from independent bodies, to conduct discussions, and, as we said in the debate, I repeat that the government is open to these discussions during the negotiation of the bill. If the negotiations result in an amendment to the proposal submitted, then the legal form of this is possible, the necessary clarifications will be made later, I believe that it can still be done. There was a debate on the purpose of the amendment of the Public Education Act, namely the amendment to non-State institutions. In addition to the fact that Secretary of State Palkovics drew attention to the negotiation process, I must say in the amendment of the content that the provision on the opening of non-State preschools referred to by the opposition representative, Mr András Schiffer, is also in the interest of the parents. What's this about? The proposal submitted states that the provision of budgetary support for these non-State institutions is subject to a minimum daily opening period of 8 hours. I repeat, this 8-hour opening is in the interest of families, so not only the interests of the institution but also the interests of the families, and this proposal for a rule is supported by the range of statistics available, according to which the average opening hours are greater than 8 hours, between 8 and 10 hours for those institutions. There was a dispute as to how, although the proposal submitted does not contain any specific figures, the basis for the 2017 budget is affected by the range of economic growth figures. I have to say that the budget proposal provides for reserves for 2017 that do not affect budgetary stability even in the case of processes that differ from projected, and the feasibility of expenditure and tax reliefs in the next year's budget. In this respect, therefore, the bill establishing the budget before Parliament does not affect the fact that next year's budget can meet its basic objectives, home creation, tax reductions, wage increases, health, education and other sectors. Finally, allow me to refer to the amendments concerning minority self-governments and say once again that the government will, of course, continue to carry out the necessary consultations under all the relevant rules. This was also the case for the law establishing the 2017 budget, and I repeat, both for nationalities and for other stakeholders, if still necessary, the government is open to consultations and possible amendments. Overall, I think that the bill setting up next year's budget can serve the goals that the government has set in the 2017 budget and which are a step forward for Hungarian society. With all due respect, I call on the Honourable Parliament to adopt the bill. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-05-13-118	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that it was possible to submit the amendments on Thursday, which is 4 p.m. yesterday. Our last item is on the agenda. The general debate on the draft law amending Act C of 2015 on Hungary's central budget for 2016 will follow. The government referral is T/10534. Available to all of them on the IT network. I would like to inform you that the proposal is being discussed as a minority item by the Parliament. First, I give the floor to Mr Péter Benő Banai, Secretary of State of the Ministry of National Economy, author of the item on the agenda, within a 30-minute time frame. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2016-05-13-119	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, The Hungarian economy has been on a balanced growth path in recent years. The economic environment and effective economic policy measures have increased the scope of the 2016 budget. The measures so far, the reforms so far, the responsible fiscal policy together, allow us to expect significant additional revenue compared to the initial budget for 2016. The government's aim is that all Hungarians can experience the effects of these processes from the more favourable processes, from the more favourable budgetary situation. The amending budget therefore provides additional resources for a number of areas while maintaining stability. It is important to stress that this does not affect the lack of cash flow in the budget law of the additional resource insurance proposal, as the amendment proposal changes the total revenue and expenditure of the central subsystem in 2016. In order to increase expenditure appropriations, tax, contribution and levy revenues, which are higher than expected, are the necessary cover, and are also the result of continued growth in the economy and of successful government measures to improve tax morale and to whiteen the economy. The changes in appropriations in the bill are balance-neutral, as I mentioned, and therefore do not affect the development of public debt. Therefore, the main macroeconomic indicators remain unchanged, with a budget deficit of 2 per cent. Dear Parliament, Allow me to explain some of the key points in the bill below. One of the most important elements of the amendment is the provision of additional resources to the 2016 budget of the Klebelsberg Institutional Support Centre and the Vocational Training Centres. The government takes responsibility for the financing of education, thus creating a stable budgetary background for the debt-free and continuous performance of the public education institution-keeping system, and these surpluses also contribute to the improvement of service standards. A decision was made on the location and construction of the new campus at the University of Physical Education. The investment included in the bill is specifically designed to make the complex one of the world's most modern sports and sports science bases. One of the keys to the development of the countryside is the potential for the development of rural metropolises. To this end, the government has set up the Modern Cities programme. The amendment provides the necessary funds for this year's implementation of the agreements with each city with HUF 50 billion. Dear Parliament, The government's intention is clear in protecting the country against the masses of illegal immigrants who could endanger the security of Hungarian and European people. For this reason, it will create a new appropriation in the chapter of the Ministry of the Interior for further financing of the management of mass immigration, amounting to HUF 1 billion, as in 2015. In addition, it is necessary to provide cover for additional expenditure on anti-terrorist measures, which is also enabled by a new so-called top-up appropriation of HUF 10 billion. It is linked that the Parliament has decided to take action against the terrorist organization Islamic State, i.e. the Hungarian participation in the international coalition. The bill creates the necessary resources for this. The driving force and long-term growth of the Hungarian economy lies partly in industry and foreign trade. By implementing the guidelines set out in the industrial strategy plan named after Irinyi János, the government will further strengthen the national industry, build on the strength of innovation, help create new jobs, and promote the competitiveness and export capacity of domestic companies. To launch the Irinyi Plan, the proposal contains HUF 2 billion in support of the EU funds already available. Dear House, According to the government, the existence of a home is one of the most important prerequisites for civil setting up, which is why it has launched the most important home creation programme of all time. [[17.20]] As you know, from 1 January 2016 the housing support system has been significantly expanded. The proposed amendment includes a surplus of the budgetary coverage of housing subsidies related to the family home-building benefit scheme. With the help of the program, families with three or more children can receive a HUF 10 million non-refundable grant for the construction or purchase of a new apartment, and can also use a loan with a public grant of HUF 10 million with a low interest rate. In the case of families with two children who build or buy new apartments, there has also been a significant increase in the level of support. In order to allow the aid to be used by as many people as possible, the amount of the benefit that could be used for the purchase of used flats on smaller floors has also increased and a number of previous restrictive conditions have been removed. In addition, the forms of aid for the purchase of used dwellings have been extended. It should be noted here that the appropriations concerned, which are therefore subject to a significant surplus in the amendment, are also open from above, i.e. there is no budgetary limit for all beneficiaries to obtain the aid granted. Dear Parliament, The Hungarian dairy sector has been experiencing market difficulties for many months. The economic difficulties of the sector are felt by the government and, in view of this, a comprehensive action plan has been developed. This comprehensive action plan includes the 5% reduction of the VAT to be applied in 2017 as from 1 January and the provision of additional resources in the proposed amendment of the 2016 budget as part of that comprehensive action plan. The General Assembly of the European Olympic Committees decided in 2012 that Hungary will host the 2017 European Youth Olympic Festival. The special sporting event series will be held in Győr in the summer of 2017, where fifty nations are expected to be represented. Széchenyi István University has undertaken to build the Olympic village, and the government intends to provide the necessary resources for the expansion and renovation of the available college infrastructure. The Government of Hungary prioritises the development of border areas and cross-border relations. The conflict in eastern Ukraine and the economic difficulties it has created in Ukraine have weakened significantly and reduced the conditions for the progress of Transcarpathian Hungarians, which has intensified the process of emigration. One of the most important conditions for the Hungarians of Transcarpathia to remain in their homeland and prosper is the return to economic development and job creation in the region. To this end, the Government has developed a strategy for economic development in Transcarpathia. With the current bill, it will be possible to support the achievement of the objectives set out in this proposal. The amendment also allocates a budget of HUF 69.3 billion to improve the state of the national road network. This is to be used by the government to refurbish the main and secondary networks of Hungary, if this proposal is accepted by the Parliament. In addition to the above-mentioned proposals for amendments, a number of expenditure items will be included in the proposal to help keep cultural and sporting events to a high standard this year. Finally, the proposed amendment also includes an increase of HUF 20 billion in the appropriation of extraordinary government measures for the purpose of the general reserve and HUF 10 billion in the estimate of the National Defence Fund for budgetary balance. Thus, new measures for the remainder of the year and possible unexpected situations will be covered. Dear Parliament, In accordance with the legal requirements in force, the Government has sent a draft amendment to the Central Budget Act to the Fiscal Council. In its opinion, the Council stated that it did not have any fundamental objections to the credibility and feasibility of amending the budget's revenue and expenditure appropriations which would justify their disagreement. The Council considers that the increase in revenue appropriations is justified and stresses that the changes in the appropriations contained in the bill increase the total revenue and expenditure of the central budget in equal amounts, i.e. null and void. Thus, the general government's cash flow deficit and debt do not change. The Council considers that the deficit target of 2% of the general government in accordance with the EU methodology for 2016 can be met with higher expenditure and considers that the sovereign debt rule is also met. Dear House, Thus, by amending the budget, the government proposes to provide additional resources for a number of areas without this increase in deficit and public debt. The economic performance of our country makes this possible. In view of what has been said, I would ask you to support and subsequently adopt the proposal to amend the 2016 Budget Act. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2016-05-13-120	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, Now we're going to hear the speeches from the lead speaker. The lead speaker of the Fidesz Group is Mr Attila Szabolcs. I give you the floor. Here you go, Congressman.
u2016-05-13-121	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr. Secretary of State! Dear fellow Members, The bill on the 2016 budget was adopted by the Parliament at the spring session in 2015, which strengthened predictability and stability. This amendment preserves this stability, but at the same time responds to the needs and processes that have arisen since adoption. The changes in expenditure and revenue appropriations included in the amendment of the Act are null and void, do not affect the cash flow deficit and do not increase public debt as a result of the balance-neutrality of the changes. The additional revenue on the expenditure side is covered by higher tax revenues resulting from the 2015 processes, corporate tax, general turnover tax, excise duty, tax revenue and other favourable processes. Government measures to improve tax morale, including online cash registers, e.g. the EKÁER system and others, have contributed to the increase in the surplus resource. The bill amending the 2016 Budget Act contains the following major amendments, and here I am obliged - but I am happy to - to refer to the Secretary of State, as these figures show that the Hungarian budget is not as big a problem as many say. So, as the Secretary of State has said, an additional HUF 91.5 billion is available to solve the budgetary problems of Klebelsberg Institutional Support Centre and Training Centres in 2016. Mr. Secretary of State also mentioned the construction of the campus of the University of Physical Education by providing HUF 4 billion. It was also mentioned about the programme of modern cities, which applies not only to the county seat concerned, but also to the settlements in its surroundings. The bill provides 50 billion forints. Mr Secretary of State also mentioned the problems caused by mass immigration. The new appropriation for expenditure related to the management of mass immigration is also supported by Hungarian participation in the international coalition on counter-terrorism measures against the Islamic State terrorist organisation. It is very important that the government strengthens the national industry and the industrial strategy plan named after János Irinyi receives HUF 2 billion in support when adopted. The Secretary of State also mentioned the CSOK, the family's home-building discount, which has been criticised here today by several opposition representatives. However, you can hear every day that more and more people are interested, and they are not only interested, but they are also joining this opportunity. [[17 .30]] It is very important, because the state of the Hungarian roads is not best because the government would provide HUF 69.3 billion for the road renovation program, i.e. to improve the road and road surface condition. The Metropolitan Municipality would receive HUF 6 billion to provide temporary liquidity for suburban transport. It is very important that the Hungarian Government has already decided that all municipalities not benefiting from debt consolidation will receive support. This aid promised in advance, the remaining amount will already be granted to these municipalities in 2016, so that the municipalities have more time to implement the planned development. For this purpose, the law contains HUF 10 billion. The Secretary of State also mentioned the European Youth Olympic Festival, which will take place in Győr. The Fidesz fraction, the Fidesz-KDNP fraction - I can safely say this - is concerned about the situation in East Ukraine, and we are very happy to support the help that the Hungarian government gives to the people living there in their homeland, and there is HUF 2.2 billion in the bill. There are non-specific tasks, such as the appropriation of extraordinary government measures would be increased by HUF 20 billion; the National Defence Fund. It is very important that the government conducts ongoing consultations on the wage situation of healthcare workers with interest representatives and professional organisations. Where, as a result of these consultations or at the discretion of the Government, additional resources are required for health in 2016, it shall not be necessary to amend the budget law separately by increasing certain appropriations for the provision of preventive medical care under the mandate provided for in the Finance Act. Dear fellow Members, As the Secretary of State pointed out, the Budget Council noted that the changes in appropriations would increase expenditure and revenue in the same amount, i.e. they are null and void, so that the budget deficit and debt do not change. On the basis of the above, I request that the amendment to the 2016 budget be supported, as in the Fidesz fraction. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-05-13-122	Thank you very much, Congressman. The lead speaker of the MSZP Group is Mr István Józsa. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2016-05-13-123	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, The fact of this proposal itself shows that what the Secretary of State said earlier last spring and the correctness of the budgetary method adopted this spring session does not really stand in place, because it would not be necessary to make this amendment now, before the end of the semester, if they had not tried unorthodoxly even to reform budgeting, so to speak. This reform, Mr Secretary of State, does not work very well, so aside from the fact that you say qualitatively that it increases predictability, you could not say anything concrete about the advantages of last year's adoption of the budget in the spring session or that it will be accepted again in the spring session. You may think that this is a matter of taste on our part, and I think that there are more professional reasons for that. Following the analysis of the facts of the last year, following the discussion and adoption of the tax laws, the revenue could be better calculated on the basis of more serious, more precise projections of the previously adopted and, let us say, similar to other methods used in Europe, in the autumn session to discuss the country's budget for the next year. I therefore believe that, as they say in court practice, this is a physical proof that this reform is not working. This statement is independent of the fact that the amendment here reflects a positive factual change, namely that the government is forecasting more revenue than it did last year, and this is indeed the result of favourable economic processes. I would add that before György Matolcsy and your own merits are overdimensible that there is a favourable economic climate in Europe and in the world, there is an abundance of money. Fed, the bank of the United States of America, has recently completed its quantitative recovery programme known as quantitative eating, which has had a beneficial effect on the world's financial markets, so it has also resulted in an abundance of money in the European money market; when they have stopped, the European Central Bank will now continue, so there is an abundance of money, under these circumstances the condition of growth and farming is better, the chance. As can be seen from the Budget Council's opinion, it will increase the revenue and expenditure of the 2016 budget by more than HUF 400 billion, i.e. the deficit target will not be increased, but it will expand by another HUF 400 billion and the government will provide more resources. According to the justification, tax and contribution revenues have so far entered the budget in addition to the plan, obviously there is truth in this, but there are still items that are outstanding, and I would like to mention the major differences that call into question the Tao and the professional merits of the design, such as the difference in corporate tax of nearly 290 billion, the difference in general turnover tax of 37 billion, the difference in excise duty of HUF 29 billion, the difference in personal income tax of 30 billion, the difference in social contribution tax of 86 billion and the difference in public taxes of 16 billion. [[17.40]] I would add that this is, in the end, mostly a positive fact, although the increase in household contributions may not be a pleasure for everyone. As you have noticed, the small levies have been reduced. That is very right; it may not be necessary to raise money for everything, even opening the door, if someone goes into an office. In the case of tao, the growth tax credit is expected to be referred to in the technical justification. According to this, if a company achieves a profit of 100 units in the first tax year and 150 units in the second tax year, it does not have to pay tax in the second tax year after the difference of 50 units, but, at its choice, can pay it in the third and fourth tax years. This is a rather complicated, but according to the market information of companies that also operate in our country, there is no such thing as a multinational company based abroad; it may be that the government created this complicated, but fundamentally positive, amendment on their initiative. Thus, these companies can tax their subsidiaries here in Hungary with a more favourable tax rate than at home. But, of course, their own governments are probably not so happy about it. Not that Hungary should pay too much attention to this, but this also contributes to the tax haven, not offshore, of Hungary. As a member of the Union, we can create very favourable tax conditions. With regard to the allocation of additional funds, the Ministry of Finance provides a fairly significant source of more than 90 billion for educational purposes. In this regard, similarly to the financing of health care, the question of the MSZP is why only now. I have noted Mr Secretary of State's previous closing statement, which he said at the end of the foundations, that the economic performance of our country allows for this increase of 400 billion; I am adding this; you have said the economic performance of our country in a sufficiently pathetic manner, which you can rightly be proud of. I'm proud of him, too. What I'm not proud of is what happens in health care and what happens in education. It was also you who acknowledged the need for additional funding in both areas, referring to compliance with budgetary discipline. Well, Mr. Secretary, here comes politics. It's a political decision as to how long they're going to let health care rot. How long will it be allowed for nurses to use a third of the necessary disinfectant, because they have no money, that they cannot find a toilet in any medical facility with toilet paper or paper towels when doctors are able to sustain themselves by taking numerous side jobs or accepting gratuity? So what we are putting in the government's eyes - and behind this, if they were to perceive it, there is serious social pressure - is that not only education must be sacrificed, there must also be a greater recognition of what is needed for teachers and technical workers. In a guilty way, a significant number of technical workers in education have been left out of the career programme, i.e. all of them have been forgotten; I just want to say that they represent such a ratio of 20% among the staff of educational institutions. So a very large layer was forgotten earlier. However, according to this proposal, healthcare seems to have been completely forgotten. So what this 17.7 billion will mean to support vocational training and adult education, I think they have impact assessments, although professional organisations have not given us any feedback that they have actually seen. Promoting home creation: I would like to reject the fact that we do not welcome this. Welcome. We find the rush scary and hurtful. So when such a civil society organization is set up that the CSOK-damaged association and association, so when it's so diverse that they've carved up their trust in the government, they've set out to get a family home-building discount, they've made a commitment, and then they'll find out that they've had vain hopes, so let's just say that it's irresponsible, that it tastes propaganda. They would have worked it out in detail and then set out for practical implementation. Similarly, it is noted that, to a significant extent, it is proposed to extend the appropriation by HUF 1 billion in the chapter of the Ministry of Interior in order to ensure the smooth financing of the management of mass immigration. In addition, for anti-terror measures, a chapter-based appropriation of HUF 10 billion will be set up in the chapter of the BM titled expenditure related to the implementation of anti-terrorist measures. The reasons for the proposal are that this will be used to cover the additional expenditure in the chapter of the Ministry of Home Affairs and the Ministry of Defence. Both new chapter appropriations may be exceeded with the government's permission. I would like to add that you probably missed it, although there is also a number of copies that the Hungarian Socialist Party submitted T/9121 on 15 February this year. draft legislation, which also proposed HUF 10 billion to finance the budget for counter-terrorism. At the time, the governing parties did not support this amendment. Now it's almost all over the place. The proposal of the MSZP differed in that it envisaged the HUF 10 billion extra funding against terrorism as a provision, not as a chapter-based appropriation, specifying exactly what the government could spend it on. With the solution proposed by the government, the Ministry of the Interior determines the rules for the use of the 10 billion-dollar resource. We think it would be more appropriate if it were to remain in government control. Finally, in the one and a half minutes at my disposal - 15 minutes in the frame? - I'd like to tell you not to forget about health care. So what they say about next year's budget is necessary, but it is not enough, and this year's funding is a disaster. So the spiral of degradation, which is accelerating in health care, requires immediate action. I would like to stand for a raise in doctors' salaries, a raise in nurses' salaries and an immediate improvement in the conditions for healing. I do not know why they do not realize that when the government has an extra HUF 400 billion, at least 100 billion of it should be spent immediately on health care and not hesitate to include HUF 173 billion in next year's budget. Look at how tragic the indebtedness of hospitals is, the state of labour supply, and the mood in health care, both in the field of workers and those who are provided. I would ask, Mr Secretary of State and Members responsible in this Chamber, that, if you have the opportunity, you focus on this. It's very nice to have a world-class building for the College of Physical Education to be the best campus in the world, but if you'll excuse me, what's in health care is more urgent. That's your first move. Thank you, Mr. President.
u2016-05-13-124	Thank you very much, Congressman. The lead speaker of the KDNP Group is Mr János Harghitai. Here you go, Congressman. [[17.50]]
u2016-05-13-125	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen of the State Secretary. Fellow Members! We are discussing the amendment of Act C of 2015, which was adopted last year, around the middle of 2015. Congressman Józsa says that because we have this amendment before us, this also proves that this change, which the government has made, is not at the end of the year, according to old habits - I remember the time when, say, two hours before Christmas, the Parliament was able to do this, we adopted the budget for next year - but it was already six months before. This did not work because, well, this budget needs to be amended, and he still does not see any reason why we are doing this. I can only repeat what Mr Secretary of State has already said on an earlier agenda in this regard, because it has been revealed even then that we see the meaning of it. If I'm a local government, if I'm an entrepreneur, it's not true that I don't understand how good it is for me, if it's the information I need to have, if I want to plan my future, they don't come crashing at me at the last minute on Christmas Eve, but a good six months before it makes life more predictable for those who farm in this country. The Secretary of State also added that international competent public opinion is responding to this positive, and for the second time here we are hearing a solid criticism of the fact that the socialists do not approve of this procedure. And I say hello, and I say, if we can, let's stick to this exercise. The fact that there may be large differences between a planned budget and a fulfilling budget, we are used to doing so, but not in this direction. I still remember the socialist times when the revenue side of a budget was planned, it was not achieved in any way, the spending pages were also overachieved at the price of borrowing, and the result was that there was a period when, say, the general government deficit was around 15 percent during the year. Now, this world had to be fixed. Now some people are moaning or complaining that there is a difference, then 400, more than 400 billion forints. Yeah, but let's just say it's a positive difference. The reason why the government can now present a bill amending the budget is that it says to understand with me, you Members of Parliament, this 407 billion is spent for such and such purposes, because the conditions for this on the revenue side have been established. So when we say that the Hungarian economy is doing well because it has created these resources, we all want to be proud of that. That's where I go to health care. We do not see any concrete proposals here in relation to health, but Congressman Józsa knows that it is not that we see that HUF 407 billion plus has been created in last year's budget, and we spend it until the last fillet, we have arrived here, we can record here, too, that the material is also about this, that the government has every means of movement in the 2016 budget, if things are crystallized in health, using free movement to provide resources and then bring this to Parliament. This amendment of the law reminded me of something else, Mr honourable Member, and that is, when, a good month or two months ago, I remember when we amended the Public Finance Act, and there we gave the Government a procedural opportunity to spend surplus resources, plus a procedural opportunity or a more flexible procedure, then you came up with the threat of death, the rule of law started in the country, and the government can spend all the resources of Parliament, without even asking Parliament. Interestingly, now that we have this bill before us, we do not see regulation governance. What we're seeing is that the spending of surplus resources is being transferred to the budget, so these siren sounds from two months ago, thank God, they're not gonna turn up. I bring this up because, let's say, in the media or especially in the left-wing media, this has been going on ever since, because there is no other way to say this, which is obviously being forced by propaganda. This is also proof that there is no such thing, the Parliament amends the budget for 400 HUF, slightly greater than HUF 407 billion, and this is a zero-residual amendment, which the government brings here, and we want to spend this additional revenue for useful purposes. I think that the usefulness of no purpose is debatable, there is a place where we are moved by compulsions, so when we put an extra 10 billion in surplus resources into the chapter of the Ministry of Interior, we are moved by compulsions, it is not a joyful spending, we must do it, seeing how many immigrants are flooding Europe and how much the terrorist threat has increased with immigrants. So we have to spend on these areas because of our foresight. As the Hungarian state is able to act against the Islamic State in some way according to its own means and provide resources to the soldiers there, this again shows the strength of the Hungarian economy, but most things are essentially joyful, even the modernisation of the University of Physical Education, even if it is to replace the burnt-out object. If we are already doing something, let us do it in a way that is one of the most modern units in Central Europe or Europe. But I can also mention other things in order that my socialist fellow Member's criticality is somewhere on me... I've been looking for a item where I say if you say there's been a design error here, then I'm telling you that I'll admit it. I can confirm this in one area, and I, as a pro-government Member, believe that this is an additional contribution to the Klebelsberg institutional centre. We have transformed the education system, defined this area as a state task, but at the same time we have washed the operation together in many areas between the state and the municipality. This system worked moaningly, we can see there's not enough resources there. I am convinced that this was not precisely planned, that we have seen this mistake, that we are making a correction. In all other cases, I do not think that a design error prevented budget planning. I think it is absolutely positive that I should just mention a few other things, such as the programme of modern cities. We know very well that all county seats, even the more advanced ones, need development. From Baranya we always say that until we can change the poverty of Pécs, the baranya periphery, the Baranya countryside will not change, the Ormany cannot move the Baranya economy. If programs are successfully implemented in Pécs, then this may be possible. I note that last year's budget has already provided funds for this, from 20 to 22 billion for the Secretary of State [[Péter Banai Benő: 25 billion.]] I remember more than HUF 25 billion, and here the government now provides an additional HUF 50 billion. Lajos Szűcs was just here in the Chamber, my fellow Members, who is a MEP in Pest, and I am right to admit that as a baranya, he has every right to regret how much less development resources the central region has, as a result of EU legislation, than possibly another region. The government also makes corrections here, of course, but I am also happy to see as a country that additional resources are available for projects of the merciful order, for the hospital in Vác and for the renovation of the hospital in Buda. The Secretary of State spoke about the additional resources to be allocated to the Iriny industrial development strategy, which is again the thing to help mobility, and we have already talked about this on another agenda. Public service contracts for bus and coach transport expired at the end of 2016 and will obviously have to be renewed. If we want to do something again, and the state acts as a customer in this market, then its orders will have to be paid, and the Parliament will spend 4.4 billion on this. Staying in the transport area, knowing the country's road network, Baranya's will be a very good place to spend 69 billion forints on road development or renovation. [[18.00]] In the same way, 6 billion forints to serve Budapest suburban transport. And what I think is very important, and this is what I like: we promised well-owned municipalities resources, not only did we promise but we gave them, we wanted to extend these resources for four or five years, and now the government, because the Hungarian economy creates these resources, we will practically pay the promised funds not when we promised, but we will bring these amounts forward. That's 12.2 billion forints. The HUF 11 billion development to be delivered to the dairy sector is also obviously important. In relation to sports development, we will all be pleased when we host an Olympic Youth Festival in 2017, the budget provides the additional resources for this. And I could tell you more about it. I therefore think that I will be happy as a pro-government representative, and also as an opposition representative - if I relive it - I will give a commendable voice if we can discuss budgetary amendments that need to be discussed in a given budget year when we need to talk about the allocation of surplus resources. This is the greatest tragedy we'll ever face. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from the Fidesz ranks.]]
u2016-05-13-126	Thank you very much, Congressman. The lead speaker of the Jobbik Group is Mr Dániel Z. Carpathian. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2016-05-13-127	Mr President, Dear House, If my coaches had not highlighted my monotony tolerance when I was an athlete, I would now lose hope that I would be able to pull my pro-government fellows back from the other side of the Stargate and show a little bit of Hungarian obsession. But my tolerance for monotony may have been my only outstanding ability in the sports years involved, so I'm going to do this with the same determination as I did before, because I'm amazed at what we've heard here. There is one lucky situation, so that more than HUF 400 billion in surplus can be shown, and this is not distributed, but can be properly channeled for normal purposes, it is an excellent opportunity, and it should be discussed here with a view to the seriousness of the situation, and indeed about the direction in which this channel could be introduced. On the other hand, we have heard here a reason for how good the budget previously submitted is, but there is still no professional argument or justification for it. So there is only one real reason for this - and be honest in this respect - that you wanted to be nice to the international credit rating companies from which you were hoping to qualify. They didn't get this, unfortunately they didn't get it, because I want this to be done, too, and I still think that they will treat Hungary at least one category lower than we would deserve, so it would be in our common interest to change it. But, in itself, to throw away the tradition and professional arguments of a century and a half, again not to introduce a rule of n-2, not to create a national inventory of assets, so they missed a lot of things, which would be a prerequisite for a decent draft budget, this is a serious mistake. However, what we see here is clearly an increase in tax and contribution revenues, a transfer of positive revenue data due to the continued growth of the economy, in the justification that this is why we need to negotiate this amending budget package now, and we are reassured that these amendments do not increase public debt. There is another item, which, in turn, potentially corrects expectations and statements of public debt, and this is the mass of sovereign debt purchase through the foundations of the Hungarian National Bank, which, according to some assumptions, exceeds 200 billion. If this happened during the investigation period and happened in the way we assumed it would, it can be measured that it also corrects - for you in a positive direction - the relationship between Hungary's indebtedness. Then, obviously, after the investigation period, they can trick again with the same crowd in the other direction, but if we are reassured here that the sovereign debt will not be changed by what you want to do in this package, they could do this in another direction, so let us say, by clarifying the circumstances of the purchase of sovereign debt through the foundations of the Hungarian National Bank. We are very pleased that at last there will be a kind of failure on the part of the government, as well as additional resources for the KLIK and the vocational training centres, in order to provide the system with debt-free and continuous tasks. Let us leave the professional reasons for how to channel resources more effectively in another direction, at least here they try to plasticize their own mistakes, and this is certainly commendable. At the same time, it would be very important to add a strategic package to the programme of the modern cities, where I can accept perfectly that it does not go to the metropolitan areas without strengthening them, and obviously this must also affect the area of attraction at some level, but I do not think that they have met with the forecasts of the HCSO, which, by 2050-60 for the majority of Hungarian districts and regions, will forecast up to 30 percent depopulation, and it is quite obvious that if this catastrophic scenario becomes a reality, these processes will indeed occur, then no sustainable economic activity in these regions can be imagined. So we need to intervene here, try to stop the depopulation of the countryside at this level. We also see that anti-terrorist measures may benefit from general support. So we can find an issue where even the balliberal side will acknowledge the intervention after a while, because the need for all of this is visible. At the same time, we also see that the resources available could indeed be used to set up an independent border guard, since you rightly indicate the problem, the need to eliminate the threat of terrorism itself, but we do not understand how 12 thousand people have crossed the border that you have hermetically closed. So, if they really want to reduce the threat of terrorism, could it not be possible for an independent border guard to do border protection much more effectively? And obviously, this would also be a social interest and demand, which cannot be resolved by transferring units within the police force into border hunters, where appropriate, because our police officers, our soldiers, are needed in their own territory. It's the same as respecting all doctors, but with stomach pain, we don't go to ophthalmology, regardless of respect for the internist and respect for the ophthalmologist. In this case, our soldiers and our police officers are elsewhere, we would need them elsewhere, and the creation of an independent border guard could prevent further escalation of the terrorist threat. With regard to the industrial strategy plan, I should like to express my appreciation that the need for this has come up at all, so that something can be developed on a trail similar to the restoration of the old Hungarian production capacity. But according to the proposal, it has grouped around HUF 2 billion in the sea, and there is little, so thinking about a real strategy here would require a much larger amount of money, and a production support tax system that channels tax benefits into our key sectors, generating measurable economic positive effects. With regard to the CSOK, we see that although the programme is welcome - we welcome it - its circumstances and its development, which give rise to concerns. And whatever amount of budget resources you can channel here, 90 percent of society and potential interested parties will certainly not be able to use CSOK, 10+10, is a heavily pressed, braked-foamed discount that is available when buying used property, even though it is so low that it does not provide substantial help. So somewhere between the two, we should find the middle road that the CSOK should open at least the total discounted loan mass of a wide range of social classes for expansion and energy modernisation and the purchase of used real estate, and perhaps we should take it back from pushing towards the new builder, as this can be good for residential park building companies, it can be good for familiar businesses, but the majority of Hungarians simply cannot afford it. What is a little annoying about this package of proposals is that even if we were to deduct from more than 1,400 billion of the money that is roughly forced investment or compulsory investment, I would think of measures relating to terrorism or putting a burned building and a new campus rooftop, there would still be enough money left to intervene in two key areas. There would be money here for an extensive VAT reduction programme that, in addition to basic foods, could reduce the VAT content of child-rearing products to 5 percent, so that could be the source mass. On the other hand, I have to say that a public-based housing programme could be launched with a smile of a fraction of this amount, so we should not use hundreds of billions here for this purpose. But once again, we see the narrow-mindedness of the government when it wants to give property to as many people as possible, which in itself is a good goal, but they do not see that 90 percent of society cannot afford it. For them, a rent-apartment program would be the solution, so that in Budapest you would not have to think over a hundred thousand forints in the case of a flat of an average size, plus rents, of course, and the amazing supply shortage on the market would have to be mitigated. [[18.10]] So here we would have the source, there would be an intervention, there are the necessary ideas, but the government will start elsewhere. That is why we call on you to reconsider this package and, in these two directions, to move towards a substantial reduction of the daily burden on families through an extensive VAT reduction programme; and with a public-based housing programme, we should create opportunities for living and staying at home for Hungarian citizens who, in many cases, are forced to seek their prosperity abroad. It's not necessarily a good thing that everyone in this country should be able to manage, so it would be a dog's duty to think about the roads that go this way. Thank you for your attention.
u2016-05-13-128	Thank you very much, Congressman. We will continue with the keynote speeches. The lead speaker of the LMP Group is Mrs Erzsébet Schmuck. Here you go, Congresswoman.
u2016-05-13-129	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, It is a bit of a joke that when this year's budget changes to such a large amount of 400 billion dollars, they are still talking about this year's budget being characterised by predictability and planning. Predictability, in our view, means that processes, rules and frameworks are as planned a year ago. This is the case even if the difference is now positive for the state. We believe that they should not be proud of this performance if we take a closer look at what this surplus is made of. We see this as a surplus of one-off and partly harmful activity, and should therefore be more responsible for spending it than the current law does. So, most of the extra income, the HUF 200 billion increase in corporate tax comes from Hungary's becoming a housemaker for tax fraud multinationals. Viktor Orbán's government is blindly serving the game of global capital, playing countries against each other, shortening them. The key word is growth tax credit. With the construction introduced last year, global multinationals can, so to speak, optimize their taxation. There is also an American-bound multinational group of companies whose daughter in Hungary is taxed on a significant amount of royalty income in Hungary. Here he has a tax liability of HUF 500 billion, which he pays into the Hungarian budget for three years. His profits will thus be about HUF 1500 billion compared to the fact that he taxes normally in the operating countries. With the introduction of the growth tax credit and the 10 percent low corporate tax rate, Hungary has become exactly the tax haven that should be combated worldwide, and this action is growing. Last few days ago 300 renowned economists, including Nobel Prize winners and others, published an open letter stating that countries with low tax rates for companies or individuals, i.e. tax havens, do not serve a useful economic purpose, while at the same time benefiting some people at the expense of others, thus increasing inequality. The poor countries - including Hungary, I add - are the biggest losers in their proportions. At least 170 billion dollars per year, i.e. 47 600 billion HUF tax revenues, are lost, this is 130 percent of Hungarian GDP. Of course, the existence of tax havens is a crime of great powers protecting them, such as the United States or Britain, but Hungary seems to be enthusiastically assisting this system. The modest increase in income - income, contributions and VAT - was largely contributed by the EU's support allocated at the end of 2015. And the big question about revenue is this. The revenues of state land sales to around HUF 300 billion are not reflected either in the 2015 budget or in the 2016 budget. This is worrying, since these resources could only be used to increase the wealth of the land. If they just make it disappear, they're breaking the law. After the proceeds, let's look at what the government is spending these resources on. First of all, it supports KLIK with HUF 90 billion, which is then quite rightly charged. For years, we have been saying that the 200 billion annual out of public education is missing, the government is always running after the events, and every few months it fills the gaps in the distributed education system. Instead of a viable system, the government continues to be a mindless nationalization. According to State Secretary László Palkovics, schools are not returned to the settlements because there are no suitable professionals in the municipalities who can control the operation of educational institutions. But what kind of government expertise is KLIK's failure to fail and state maintenance? The Fidesz-KDNP government criticizes the settlements, when the municipal school system worked better than the bankrupt KLIK in spite of all its problems. Only a small part of the settlements, typically the smallest villages and villages, can really have problems with the maintenance of schools, also because they have been constantly deprived of all the resources. Make no mistake, the mixed system so far was also an extremely unfortunate solution when they separated the maintenance and operation of schools. But now they're replacing a bad solution with another, worse solution. The LMP has been saying for years that a completely new maintenance model is needed: the municipality that requests and is able to maintain it can get the school back together with the appropriate state aids. Any local government that does not ask for or is not able to do so shall retain some kind of public responsibility. This is a smart compromise and an effective intermediate solution. The further use of additional resources is also doubtful, in particular 50 billion of the campaign tour called the "Modern Cities" programme. Tens of billions given to vocational training and non-indebted settlements may even be useful. Home creation, i.e. 50 billion of CSOK, is an excessive funding of an inefficient programme, but we have seen worse. What should I spend it on instead? Investment in housing, energy efficiency and renewables that would build the future and benefit those who earn less. There is a great need to re-establish the resources of education and health. And we always have to remember, it's a one-time gift that should be invested well. Today's news is that Hungarian growth collapsed in the first quarter, while the 2016 budget was planned to increase by 2.5 percent. We think this should be a warning signal for you, too. Thank you for your attention.
u2016-05-13-130	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. As an independent Member is not present, no independent representatives will be able to speak. Now, Imre Ritter, a German ethnic advocate, will speak at the request of the ethnic advocates invited by the committee representing the nationalities. Here you go, Congressman.
u2016-05-13-131	Thank you very much. Sehr geehrter Herr Vorsitzender! Sehr geehrtes Parliament! Mr President, Dear House, Please allow me, on behalf of the Committee on Nationalities in Hungary, to express our position on the national parts of bill No 10534 amending Act C of 2015 on the Central Budget 2016. The submitted bill does not contain any amendment directly or indirectly to the nationalities of Hungary. At the same time, a compromise solution has been reached in the settlement of the national needs of the 2017 Budget Bill, which will result in an amendment of HUF 400 million to the bill submitted by the Committee of Nationalities of Hungary to amend the 2016 Budget Act by the Ministry of Human Resources chapter, chapter 20 appropriation 60 for the promotion, investment and renewal of national minority institutions. [[18.20]] We ask for an increase in the initial budget of HUF 882.4 million to HUF 1 billion of HUF 282.4 million. During yesterday's minority contributions to the 2017 central budget bill, President János Fuzik has already presented and analysed in detail the increased tasks that have been entrusted to national and local minority self-governments and their associations, which have taken over and maintain and operate national minority institutions. It also explained in detail what specific national investment and renovation works are already under way from HUF 882.4 million in the initial allocation. During yesterday's general debate, Mr Demeter also pointed out that today the vast majority of 110 ethnic institutions are public education, but there is also a museum of nationality, a collection, a cultural institute of nationality, a research institute of nationality, a national minority theater and other ethnic institutions, of which 74 are national minority authorities, 35 are local minority self-governments and 1 is also active in the association of local minority self-governments. This number will increase by about one-and-a-half dozen ethnic institutions and more than ten other local minority self-governments and their associations as institutional guardians by the implementation of the already decided and authorised institutional takeovers by 1 September 2016. The importance of the tasks taken over by the institutions taken over is well felt by the fact that although the exact current number of children will be available after 1 September 2016, from autumn more than 10 thousand children will be required to perform their educational and educational tasks only in ethnic minority public education institutions, minority kindergartens, ethnic primary schools and ethnic secondary schools. The long-term performance of national minority tasks makes it essential to ensure coverage for the continuous renovation, necessary and required expansion, investment work of national minority institutions and to provide the necessary part of themselves in the case of potential applications. Even on the basis of partial ex ante needs assessments, we need to talk about more than 10 billion. Nationalities in Hungary, the Association of National National Governments and the Committee of Nationalities in Hungary felt this growing need for renovation and investment already in 2014, so they treated this as a priority and managed to achieve that the 2015 Central Budget Act provided HUF 441.2 million for this purpose in a new title order. This was raised to HUF 882.4 million in the 2016 Central Budget Act. These work, as I mentioned, is in progress or at the last stage of preparation. We believe that we can take a very significant step in 2017 with the amendment of the 2016 Central Budget Act of 400 million and the HUF 882.4 million in the 2017 Budget Bill to improve the consistency and infrastructure of national minority institutions operating in the maintenance of minority self-governments. I therefore call on the honourable Parliament in advance to support our amendment to be tabled and to adopt it later. Finally, let me say a few thoughts and sentences - I did this yesterday - adopting the budget instead of December in June, on the one hand, for nationalities and, on the other hand, as tax experts and auditors - although these activities are now suspended - professionally. Without any political debate, I think that making the budget move forward by six months is a very positive thing. As in economic life, so in civilian life, planning, organisation and security in advance may mean more than a specific financial increase. If, for example, we took out applications for the general operating support of national minority civil society organisations, for ethnic cultural programmes, for the native language camping of students, the practice so far was that after the budget adopted in the first half of November, in the middle of December or on Christmas for 30 days, or even on 29 December, and then there was 30 days of Advent, Christmas, New Year's Eve, winter break, and when the school started, the first week was the opportunity for teachers to apply for summer camping. And even if the educator went into the institution for his freedom, he couldn't find anyone there, he couldn't talk to anyone. The invitation to tender was simply during a period that was unmanageable. Then the applications were evaluated at the end of April, in May, at the beginning of June, when 75-80 percent of the ethnic programmes were long over. Let me tell you that in the German ethnic area, all the ethnic student races, poems, proses, singing, music, dance and everything are in spring. Only in the northern region, Pest, Heves and Nógrád county, we organize regional semifinals and then the finals in eight schools in the poetry and prose tournament. Only more than a thousand children participate in the poems and proses in the northern region, but there is still dancing, singing, music that had to be broken apart, because so many participants cannot be arranged together. These regional and national tournaments require tremendous organizational work, preparation and funding, and this cannot be done without knowing whether I will receive support and how much, and I will receive the money in July or August, even though these would be prefinanced proposals. The only way to do this is to try to create reserves in every possible way. And to tell you a personal thing: I am the president of the Association of German Local Governments in Northern Hungary, and I currently have some HUF 3 million of private money in the association, because we have not been able to finance our programmes in any other way. These will come later, but this is the case. What you can't expect from a teacher is that if I get paid, then it's good if I don't, then I'll pay for camping. Now we have been able to agree with the EMMI that since the Budget Act will be adopted in June, all applications will be issued to nationalities by mid-October at the latest, all applications will be accepted by mid-December, all applications will be notified, supporting documents can be made in January and everything will be paid in early February. This is even more important to raise the funding by 10, 20 or 50 percent. I told you that last night. The same is true of investments. The adoption of the 2016 Finance Act in July last year meant that in two to three months we could normally negotiate with the 13 national self-governments in all aspects of the minority committee, and that Minister could approve the division in the autumn. [[18.30]] We have started preparing concrete constructions, the supporting documents have been completed a long time ago, at the beginning of this year. We were able to get money from Germany, the Ministry of the Interior, we were able to get money from Hermann Stiftung for it, we had the public procurement of the construction by summer, and as the summer camps went down, we could start the construction. If the budget had been adopted in December, we would now say that the distribution of these funds might have taken place. But even in the case of individual decisions, it is very important that what is not reserved for force majeure, money is available, decisions can be made, and let's say that if a theatre receives a grant from a separate framework, it will not be received in August or September, but can count on it already in January or February. So what I'm saying is that in Landesrat, which is a national organization of 263 ethnic cultural associations, in February we didn't just accept the 2017 and 2018 full-year project and programme plan, and now we know where it will be on 12 November 2018 - say, the qualification of the bands of the Baranya region. But the only way to do that is to know what it can do before the year, in the fall, what it can do. Serious, organized, well-established, lasting development and quality cannot be done differently, it cannot be designed and operated from one month to the next. Sorry, if this was a little personal, but we suffered a lot, we struggled that once a tender was pre-financing and 100 percent intensity, no matter how much it was paid, it should not be paid in August for the January, February and March programmes. I think that the fact that the budget has been brought forward by six months is a matter of great importance for us, for national governments, for civil society organisations. I apologize for this small detour, but I did not say yesterday in the debate on the 2017 Central Budget Act that, let's say, we did not ask the local ethnic authorities for any general operating aid by 2017. Because we believe that the optimal, rational use of regulatory issues and existing secured money for the purposes considered most important by the given community is more important for us now than trying to raise something on this framework. Thank you so much for listening. Danke für Ihre Aufmerksamkeit!
u2016-05-13-132	Thank you very much, Mr Speaker. I will ask my fellow Members if anyone else wishes to speak in the debate. Yeah. Member István Józsa has applied to speak again. Here you go, Congressman.
u2016-05-13-133	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, This is an interesting debate about planning. I very much agree with the idea expressed by the German advocate on the feasibility of their activities. Planability and reliability are two very important elements of every operation. Even for poetry competitions. So if the Orbán government didn't have the practice of putting everyone in an absolutely vulnerable position, and then, if they change a little bit compared to that, everyone is extremely happy, then, let's say, in the poetry competition, you could know in advance that there will be 80 million forints. Because this is not an item for which a contract could not be concluded for five years in advance in the context of strategic cooperation. I think you should. So I am not saying that it does not help planning, but, at the same time, if such a budget operation is reliable, I merely referred to, as Congressman Harghitai said, with solid criticism, that what lies before us is an amendment of 407 billion is tangible proof that this is not so perfect. In any case, I also say that, particularly in the field of civil society organisations, where, I say, it continues to give such a positive opinion, it includes the deterrent practice of previous years, which has put Viktor Orbán into everyone's head who is the god, who is the king, where should be adapted, if they even want to exist. I believe that this is not a practice to be followed in a civilised Europe. If a person really thinks about equal opportunities, thinks about cultural prosperity, then this should not be strengthened by a regime such as the MMA. The other part of the debate. Here, too, Congressman Harghitai attributed me things that I didn't actually say. I think, of course, it is good to have additional income. But if you recall, a few years ago, it was your government that first closed 10 percent of the wallet budget, and then once again closed 10 percent. So there are situations in which you have experienced it, and don't give it to me, that this fall in growth now brings such a situation, when there are serious risks that they will announce something that they expect six months earlier. I would never take it from the rhyme contest. Let me quote Churchill's comment in a budget debate during the war, when his experts made a proposal to reduce cultural subsidies, and he's out of breath so we don't fund our culture? Then why are we at war? So there are weights. Changes in public finances. Just because someone doesn't commit the case of lily-dipping, even though he has everything he needs, doesn't mean that rules have to be created that make lily-dipping acceptable. So now there is the opportunity for the government to redeploy budget lines by means of regulations. [[Dr. János Harghitai: Nonsense.]] Well, you may have read this from the amendment to the law that it is silly, and now you see evidence in the current budget amendment that this is a fictitious case, but there are interpretations of law that say that this amending the budget with this regulation could in principle lead to an uncovered commitment. There may be an uncovered commitment, which is an outlaw state, so there is no legal cover for a certain commitment. In civilian life, it's called a felony. This has never happened to the government, so somewhere has always been covered for commitments, but now lawyers say that it was actually in Germany in Hitler that the chancellor asked for absolute authority for himself, and from then on we know what happened, he neglected to operate in parliament, in one person, ruling the country where it was governed by decrees. I'm not saying that's what you want, so this country isn't so nasty, even in this competition, who's more afraid of immigrants. I'm not pro-immigration. You don't want to bake it on me because you said you'd always tell me that. But over-dimensionalizing certain moods leads to real distortions. Virtual overemphasis can lead to real distortions in social consciousness. So I'd like to protect you from that, and I'd like to focus on humane in the first place. [[18.40]] In particular, I continue to miss what you see in the amending budget as an opportunity to move resources and resources quickly to health, and I say that it is already a mistake in the current amending budget that there are no concrete proposals to address the most pressing health problems. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2016-05-13-134	Thank you very much, Congressman. I will ask my fellow Members if anyone else wishes to speak in the debate. [[No one's reporting.]] I do not see an application; the general debate is closed. I would like to ask Mr Péter Benő Banai, State Secretary, if he wishes to respond to what was said in the debate on behalf of the rapporteur. [[On the sign of Péter Benő Banai:]] Yes, he wants to answer. Here you go, Secretary of State. It's got a 30-minute time frame. Here you go.
u2016-05-13-135	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, If I may, I will group the arguments made in the debate and respond to these arguments, these opinions. The first issue was whether the budget that should be amended in May, after its adoption, during the implementation of the budget, could be predictable. I think that we have been given an answer to predictability, and I would also like to thank the rapporteur, Mr Ritter, who made it clear that, in terms of the predictability of budget expenditure, the fact that the 2016 budget was adopted earlier by the Parliament compared to what used to be. If we ourselves look at what an earlier knowledge of a tax system means as a private person or, in the case of an undertaking, as a matter of course, as a positive measure, we will be able to plan the expected expenses and revenues much ahead if we know what taxes and how to pay them to the central budget. Therefore, predictability has also been referred to as a virtue by both domestic and international organisations, as has been repeatedly formulated. The other question is whether the budget is reliable. On behalf of Mrs Schmuck Erzsébet, it has been said that the significant difference, even if positive, can be considered as a quasi error. In terms of budgetary policy, in the last 18 years, since I have been dealing with the budget at some level, I have learned that if the figures are worse, the budget figures are worse, confidence is weakened by better budget figures, it strengthens confidence. This was particularly so from the point of view of Hungary or Hungary, so I think it was important to restore the credibility of fiscal policy by enabling the government to meet the planned deficits and the planned debt reduction. You are right, Mr Józsa, that this has called for an active fiscal policy from the government, but this policy, within the framework of the approved budget, has led me to believe that credibility has been restored and that it has played a role in restoring credibility in recent years that budgetary processes have evolved better than planned. We see the same in 2016: budget processes are improving compared to planned, with substantial additional revenue in a number of areas. Let's look at what this extra income comes from and what items it comes from. However, one significant revenue gap is linked to the performance of the economy and to higher employment. We see these surpluses, for example, in the appropriations for personal income tax or labour-related contributions, these surpluses appear. The second group is linked to measures aimed at whitening the economy, and these measures, I can say, are at least as successful as we expected from these measures, so we can count on surpluses here too. The third category, referred to by Mrs Schmuck Erzsébet, is the growth tax credit. Indeed, the significant surplus of corporate tax revenue is also linked to the growth tax credit, which was also stated in the discussion of the 2017 budget bill, and is included in the documents submitted by the government. What kind of companies this is connected to is already a question, and I would argue with the congresswoman. There were 70 companies with growth tax loans, including many small and medium-sized enterprises. As regards the legal system and the growth tax credit itself, I do not share the Member's view that it is not in the interests of the country to develop corporate taxation within the European Union's legislative framework that results in higher tax revenues. We are talking about countries competing on their tax systems in terms of where revenues are coming from. I am more pleased with it as a Hungarian citizen, as an official, if we receive additional tax revenues in Hungary, from which we can finance investment or health care than if these tax revenues are not coming to the Hungarian budget. Thus, the corporate tax system, the rules adopted by the Parliament on the Government's proposal, resulted in an overall increase in corporate tax. The congresswoman mentioned land revenues. Indeed, the proposal submitted does not cover these items. If the proceeds of the planned sale of assets are generated, and this is what is expected to happen, because the experience of land sales so far is known, this surplus also improves the balance of the budget and, of course, can only be used in compliance with the relevant rules for the purposes of the Land Fund Act; we will see the final figures in the accounts. We will then arrive at the purpose for which the proposed legislation will try to use the accumulated, visible revenue. Mr Dániel Z. Kárpát's suggestion and the suggestion of Mrs Erzsébet Schmuck, I felt that it was a question of whether there was an economic policy picture of what the State was using the extra income for. If we look at this submitted proposal, we see that the additional revenue is not being used by the State. There is also operational extra expenditure, I will mention this, but these additional revenues are typically spent on investments by the state, public and private investments: nearly 70 billion in road renovations, 50 billion in family home creation investments, or 50 billion in the programme of modern cities, together with 170 billion forints. In the context of home creation, I would like to mention that home creation support can also be used for the purchase of new and used apartments, so it is not exclusively for the construction of new apartments. At the same time, there is no doubt that the system of measures affects the direction in which the three children receive the most support, as the basic goal is to have as many children as possible and to provide greater support than the construction of new homes, because this helps to boost the economy and employment. So this is the dual goal that guided the government when it proposed a system of home-creation benefits. I'm glad the Irinyi plan is agreed. I stress that, of course, the Government intends not only to use the $2 billion amount that we are discussing for the purposes of the Irinyi Plan, but also for EU funds. The aim of this domestic resource is precisely to finance industries, such as the defence industry, which cannot be used for EU support under Community rules. Thus, the government spends a significant part of the additional revenue on investments. Where there is operational expenditure, there is also an economic policy aspect: we are talking about an amount of HUF 11 billion in support of these dairy producers, and there is indeed additional operating expenditure at KLIK. Mr János Harghitai referred to how the KLIK budget was established, what numbers were available. You have to see that a very large organization has been created. I think it was the right decision to establish the same quality requirements and the same chances in future life, in order to achieve equal opportunities for students studying in small towns or students in metropolitan areas, in order to be able to learn under the same conditions. [[18.50]] But there is no doubt that this system of state institutions could not function perfectly from one minute to the next, this is what we see, and that is why the government is taking action to reform the institutional system or, if necessary - and we see it is really necessary - to provide additional resources. I would argue with the conclusion that the State would have withdrawn money - it did not withdraw funds from the education system - and I would also argue that this would only be a way of restoring operational deficits. Let me give you a number: on April 30, KLIK's debt was HUF 4.6 billion. One forint is a lot, I admit it, but some of the debts are natural, by which I mean that there is a deadline for the payment of incoming accounts, so the bills are not paid the next day, but the payment beyond the deadline is not correct, there can be no discussion between us, but here the 90 billion extra funds are worth comparing the amount of the debt. Health. First of all, I would like to thank Mr Attila Szabolcs for recalling the section in the proposal for a bill on the possibility of increasing healthcare expenditure in the sphere of government power. If the result of the ongoing wage negotiations is that the government can provide additional resources for the wages of nurses and doctors, then this can be done in accordance with the rules laid down by the Parliament, within the limits of the budget. Here, as regards regulation governance, allow me to say that the government can only make transfers within the framework approved by Parliament, only on the basis of the legislative provisions approved by Parliament. Regrouping was possible before, so in this respect the above amendment of the general government law does not constitute a systemic change of large scale, very significant. This amendment allows the government to decide on the implementation of a new expenditure and the conclusion of a new contract that the collateral will be transferred after the decision. But I would like to point out that the funds can be transferred within the approved budget framework. Finally, in the use of additional expenditure, in terms of investments, operating expenditure, and if I mentioned health care, I do not know if I said that 2 billion HUF extra investment items are included in the rescue service. Finally, I must mention that, in the case of security, I see a consensus reached, and on behalf of the MSZP, Member, he also welcomed the fact that there is an additional item of 10 billion in the proposal submitted. Overall, I think that the amendment to the 2016 Budget Act will answer questions, problems that will be resolved, with the resolution of which a broad layer of Parliament's fractions agrees. However, if the Parliament accepts the amendment, the deficit target of 2% will not be damaged, the reduction of public debt will not be affected. This is how the Fiscal Council sees it, so in this spirit I propose that, after discussing any amendments that may arise, the Parliament adopts the motion that has been tabled. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of Fidesz.]]
u2016-05-13-136	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, It was possible to submit amendments on Thursday, which is until 16:00 yesterday. We have reached the end of the meeting of our agendas. The post-meeting speech will not take place now. I would like to thank my fellow Members, Mr Special Secretary of State, all the employees of the Parliament's Office, the leaders of the minutes, for their whole week's work. The National Assembly will be held next week on Monday at 11 a.m.... [[For signal:]] Sorry, next Tuesday - because we shouldn't come in on Pentecost Monday - you will resume your work at 11 o'clock. I wish you blessed, happy, enlightening festivals of Pentecost and good night. It's 6:55. Meeting day's closed. [[Meeting ended at 6:55 p.m.]]
