u2016-04-26-0	[[The people in this room stand up and greet the voters' community. When the chairman of the meeting takes his seat, the people in the room will sit down.]] Dear Parliament, The 19th day of the Spring Session of the Parliament is hereby opened. I would like to inform you that István Tiba and Ádám Mirkóczki will be attending the meeting to help me. Welcome to our guests and to all those who monitor our work. Dear Parliament, Speaking before the agenda, Mr Sallai R. Benedek, from the political group "May Be Other," called "Chernobil 30." You have the floor, Congressman.
u2016-04-26-1	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear fellow Members present, I think most people know that 30 years ago, on the night of 26 April, the United Nations said that the greatest environmental disaster for mankind was the Chernobyl disaster. In a nuclear reactor built with technology at the time, or built with previous technology, an explosion at 700 meters high shook the area due to the apparent failure of the heating system, the effects of which are still undisputed. It is so important to remember this because Hungary is thinking about nuclear power right now, and I thought that if we relive what happened 30 years ago in Hungary, then maybe some legislators would reconsider their fate and wonder whether this price was appropriate. I don't know if you know that the 30-mile radius around Chernobyl, which has been designed, will not be habitable for around 24,000 years and suitable for agricultural cultivation - this is a county area in roughly Hungary - as long as radiation is maintained due to the decay of plutonium. But it's not just that big of an area. Approximately 150,000 square kilometers is what is affected by the radiation, where agricultural production is practically limited to animal feed and indirect secondary feed. The 150,000 square kilometers are more than one and a half times more than Hungary, to which it can be said that if Chernobyl Pakson were to happen, Hungary would be virtually uninhabitable today. Many have written a lot about Chernobyl, and a lot of people think that technology, that carelessness, cannot happen again, but obviously the Fukushima disaster 25 years later, after Chernobyl, has shown that a very disciplined, very organized and organized nuclear surveillance can have the same disaster. These two disasters, along with Chernobyl, are just two accidents that if we believed or believed the promise of nuclear power, it would never have happened. If you were right about the claims made by nuclear experts in Hungary, then these are the ones that could not have been made. But they have happened, and as a result, to this day, we do not know exactly how many victims there have been. Approximately 200,000 people had to be called upon to leave their homes, and then 400 thousand were sent there for immediate damage control. This mobilization then affected the little soldiers in Russia. We do not even know whether there would be so many people to mobilize in Hungary today in such a similar situation. And we don't know the specific damage either, because the question is, what 30 years was enough for, what we learned about it. We don't know anything more about this case. We know tens of thousands of people died. Only because of the thyroid damage caused by post-nuclear radiation, and because of other cancers, over 40,000 people lost their lives. Over 40,000 forced abortions had to be carried out throughout Europe, covering all Western Europe, in order to prevent radiation-induced degeneration problems. And yes, it is because there is nothing more unnatural than to play with nuclear energy and to deal with it, because radiation affects the reproductive capacity of DNA, which is why people are born in mutation-related diseases, and that is the greatest danger. Chernobyl teaches the world that there is no safe nuclear power, and obviously what happened there is very, very difficult to manage. And what we have learned from all this is important, what we can learn from such a disaster. We know that the number of people directly involved is more than the number of people who can die in a war. We know that practically what happened there was of such intensity that it would take 24,000 years to reduce its effects. Since the last ice age, since warming was completed, about 11,000 years have passed, so it takes twice the history of mankind to make that area habitable. And what did we learn from that? Pretty much nothing. In 2003, there was a Paks malfunction that became public today. What happened in Chernobyl? The neighboring settlement was not notified of the disaster for one day, and for more than two days people lived in it until they were evicted. In 2003, what happened to Pakson? Neither was the local authorities informed of the malfunction, and it was practically eliminated, there was no disaster, thank God, and never, but the mechanisms that happened at that time still exist to this day. To this day, we insist on nuclear energy [[The president's ringing the bell.]] To date, Hungary has not stood up to build a nuclear-free Europe. This is to be remembered on Chernobyl's 30th anniversary. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2016-04-26-2	Thank you, Congressman. On behalf of the Government, Mr János Fónagy, State Secretary, will respond.
u2016-04-26-3	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear House, Honourable Congressman, Ladies and gentlemen, Thank you for your suggestion before the agenda, because commemorating Chernobyl's 30-year anniversary gives us the opportunity and the obligation to address a fundamental human, professional and social rule on nuclear power, the importance of nuclear energy, but also on the management of nuclear power. Yes, Chernobyl was a major industrial disaster, as the sinking of the Titanic was a major shipping disaster, and many plane crashes took a lot of casualties. But that does not mean that sea shipping is banned, and no one remembers to ban some 400,000 aircraft taking off daily in the world from the sky. Modern times bring dangers, dangers where human responsibility increases. Greater opportunities, greater benefits and greater responsibility. After 30 years, we have a responsibility to say that Chernobyl was essentially a result of human failure, a power plant, which is significantly more antiquated than today's, with significantly less protection than today's equipment, has failed to comply with all possible rules and, as a result of their irresponsible failure, has indeed produced a cataclysm that you have said very figuratively. Yes, in the Chernobyl consequences, the Soviet system of 30 years ago, which silenced it, tried to keep it quiet, thus covering it up and increasing the trouble, and as a result, hundreds and thousands of people actually died or suffered serious damage that would not have been necessary. But, honourable Member, for a moment all this did not make us forget that the 21st edition of the Treaty had been adopted. The century cannot spare the secure, constantly available, well-stainable energy that nuclear energy represents. The use of nuclear energy also brings many benefits in addition to the risk mentioned above. It can be calculated to ensure even production with low CO2 emissions. [[9.10]] Of course, a number of conditions are necessary for safe operation, a national regulatory system that determines the definition of safety requirements, standards and their regular modernisation. The use of nuclear safety also requires the functioning of the security authorisation system, regular official control and evaluation and well-trained, responsible and committed operators. I have a responsibility to say that domestic legislation implements compliance with security requirements in accordance with international standards. These standards in Hungary are both Paks I., the Paks power plant currently operating and Paks II, which is based on our decisions. meet and will meet. The use of nuclear energy, which has been one of the most effective sources of domestic electricity supply since 1982, is outstanding for the safe supply of electricity in Hungary. Today, Paks provides 43-45 percent of Hungary's electricity supply at a significantly lower price than any other energy source, ensuring both the affordable and cheap energy supply of the Hungarian population and the competitiveness of the Hungarian industry to be judged in this respect. It is no coincidence that before 2010, the Hungarian Parliament took a consensus on the maintenance and development of domestic nuclear power, with the agreement of the then governing parties and the opposition. Safety equipment of the nuclear power plant is under constant control [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] and they comply with the regulations in everything, so I would ask that these aspects be taken into account both by the Member and by the Hungarian society in the context of Chernobyl and in its memory. Thank you for your patience, Mr. President. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-04-26-4	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Bertalan Tóth, from the Group of the Hungarian Socialist Party, also applied for a speech before the agenda. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2016-04-26-5	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, György Matolcsy, Viktor Orbán's right hand has been exposed. In the days of St. Stephen, a state founder for similar arrests, the thief's hand was cut off, but now we live in different times. It has been proven that the foundations of the National Bank Pallas Athena are in fact simple paying places, where billions migrated and migrated to Matolcsy and Orbán's relatives, friends, Mészáros, Garancsi and Tiborcz. It is right to be outraged by all Hungarians: Matolcsy and his associates have become unworthy of their positions. However, life did not stop; Matolcsy is in place, the foundations continue to spend public money, and the Hungarian National Bank continues to fund the Hungarian state through the foundations in a tricky manner. This is illegal and harmful for Hungary. It is against the law because foundations violate the rules on public finance management and violate the provisions on the prohibition of monetary financing. And it is harmful, because the money provided to the foundations of the Hungarian National Bank would have a much better place in education or even health care. But it is also harmful because the hidden monetary funding could put Hungary on the bench. Our goal is for Hungary to avoid this bench of shame. Our goal is that no Hungarian person should be ashamed of the Government and the President of the Central Bank of Hungary. It is therefore in our common interest to explore the scandal and to put an end to the scandalous practice. Let's see what we can do. First of all, we should thank the courts and press staff for doing their job; for making judgments in our requests for data in accordance with the law, and for processing the data enforced and making it public. But further investigations are also needed, so we propose a six-point package of measures for the MNB Foundations and budget funding screening and preventing further rampage of foundations. 1. Today we are initiating the expansion of the audit powers of the State Audit Office in order to enable the SAO to monitor the management of the MNB foundations and the companies created by them. We recommend that the National Assembly ask the State Audit Office to check the management and public use of the MNB's foundations and companies. 2. Today, we invite the chairman of the Parliament's Committee on Budgets to conduct an investigation into the illicit monetary financing of the MNB. We need answers from the Minister of National Economy, the Fiscal Council, the State Audit Office of Hungary, among other things, about whether György Matolcsy deceived them or if they are accomplices to the tricky funding. 3. Let's get the prosecution to run a legal check on the foundations. The foundations of the MNB have violated the provisions of the Freedom of Information Act and are constantly violating the provisions of the Public Procurement Act. The money was wasted without public procurement. 4. We also initiate the Public Procurement Authority's procedure for breach of public procurement rules. The Foundations of the MNB have not registered in the register of contracting entities managed by the Public Procurement Authority, nor have they defined the rules and responsibilities for the preparation, conduct and internal control of the procurement procedure. 5. We are initiating the setting up of a parliamentary committee of inquiry to investigate the circumstances of the non-procurement obligation on the foundations of the MNB and the failure to comply with public money management rules. 6. Finally, I call on the foundations of the MNB to fully comply with the provisions of the Court's judgments and to provide the public interest data to be published in full without being obscured. If I fail to do so, I will have no choice but to press criminal charges for misuse of data of general interest. It is important to know that the foundations have not yet fully issued the data, the grant contracts below HUF 5 million and the grant contracts to private individuals and the annexes to the minutes on their Board decisions, valuations and other data. It cannot be claimed that the foundation is independent of the MNB, as the court has also stated that the MNB has influence through the Boards and the Board members have influence. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] He is one of the presidents of MNB employees, including György Matolcsy. Please support our initiatives. Thank you for your attention. [[Zoltán Haughty applauds.]]
u2016-04-26-6	Thank you, Congressman. On behalf of the Government, Mr András Tállai, State Secretary, will state the government's position.
u2016-04-26-7	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, He is very angry and I think he made unfounded statements with the Hungarian National Bank [[Zoltán Grimlock: Which one was it?]] and related to its foundations and management. His first statement was that these foundations were illegal. Thank God, in Hungary it is not yet a opposition party, the Hungarian Socialist Party, who says that it is illegal to operate and manage any organization. Let's look at the six points you've listed, what you said. The first is for the SAO to check the foundations. Honourable Congressman, You should read the bill before the Parliament. [[Dr. Bertalan Tóth: Your companies!]] One point of the bill on the National Bank of Hungary - which the Parliament is voting on today, and following the speeches before the agenda it is debating - is precisely that the Act on the National Bank of Hungary will state that the State Audit Office will check these foundations. [[Zoltán Haughty and Dr. Bertalan Tóth: Their companies, too!?]] So that's checked. [[9.20]] The second point initiates the transfer of control issues of the Hungarian National Bank to the Committee on Budgets. I would like to tell you that, under the Hungarian National Bank Act, a parliamentary committee, the Economic Commission, is still monitoring and reporting the activities of the Hungarian National Bank; its chairman is obliged to appear before the committee every six months, and the members of the committee, the committee itself, may ask for anything from the Hungarian National Bank. The fact that you're calling the D.A.'s office to prosecute me, I think it's also the decision of the D.A.'s head to decide when, when, what procedure to initiate. I'm sure you have the legal opportunity to do that right now, so I don't know what you're going to do about it. This is also the case with the public procurement authority procedure. The Hungarian Socialist Party may, of course, initiate the establishment of a parliamentary committee of inquiry, but after first stating that this is against the law, according to the regulations in force, if there is a suspicion of a crime or a criminal offence, then the parliamentary committee of inquiry cannot investigate it. So you're in conflict with yourself here, too. Or the fact is that it's illegal, and then the authorities are looking at it, and if it's not, it's a parliamentary committee of inquiry. It calls on the foundations to carry out their commitment tasks in the public interest without covering them. You call upon the foundations to be unlawful, because being unscathed means that the foundation can violate personality rights. Then he threatens the foundation that if he does not commit this lawlessness, he will even press charges. It's full of contradictions, but your speech is full of political passions. But to bring it up again, you were not so squeamish about the operation of the Hungarian National Bank when you were in the government, and the majority of the Hungarian Socialist Party voted Andras Simor as president in the Parliament. I will tell you again what kind of president the Socialist MNB President was to the Hungarian National Bank. Offshore kept his money in companies. The president of the Hungarian National Bank held his investments abroad in unknown companies. [[Zoltán Grimlock: Now he's being held with relatives.]] His salary was HUF 8 million/month, which was one of the highest salaries among national banks in Europe. But let's see what your national bank president has done. The activities of the National Bank were constantly loss-making. There's been a constant increase in government debt. At that time, the foreign reserves of the Hungarian National Bank continued to decline. They kept the central bank's core interest rate constantly high, thereby rescinding the growth of the Hungarian economy, slowing it down, what is more preventing it. They allowed the number of foreign exchange lenders to increase in Hungary, millions of people were in trouble by not being warned by the Hungarian National Bank. The control of banks and financial institutions was abolished, and the Hungarian National Bank did not have a word about it. They kept inflation high in order to be bad for people, so they would have to pay as much as possible in stores. The President of the National Bank, which you chose, was invaluable. Thank you very much. [[Zoltán Pride: But it's not about him! Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-04-26-8	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, [[Noise in the ranks of the MSZP.]] He also applied for a speech before the agenda - not Zoltán Gőgös, I say, not Mr Zoltán Gőgös, but - MEP Zoltán Magyar, representative of Jobbik:. The rural policy of Fidesz with the title 80% of the aid added to the top 10 percent. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2016-04-26-9	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Fellow Members! I'm guessing Mr. Secretary will give you an answer. We are here at the mid-term of governance, so I thought it would be time to take stock of where we are in Hungary today in the field of agriculture and rural development, because here were the most serious promises. Prior to 2010, the current government promised to replace socialist-liberal rural destruction policy and said that we would finally be able to live in a country where we would return the country's honor, give back its opportunities, and that a large part of the development money would come down to the majority of society. Mr State Secretary, we may, in principle, agree that your government has three instruments at its disposal, just as all governments in the world, to influence the situation of its own region, its own agriculture. The first is the legal environment. The first Orbán government has made a lot of progress in this, but unfortunately in the opposite direction, as has been the case with its earlier promises. Think of the land traffic law, which resulted in virtually a concentration of property in Hungary. From the perspective of all these years, we can say that some have crammed together areas exceeding the principal estates. Instead of introducing laws that were adopted in Europe, which, let's say, would have created opportunities, through plant regulation, to force these brutal properties to be sold by their owners after a while and to put them on the market for family farmers who actually live on the ground, they cemented their position. We have also argued a lot about the issue of buying land for foreigners. Mr Secretary of State, let me explain that Jobbik's problem is not the problem of Hungarians buying land, not that they speak a different language, or that they have foreign citizenship, but that our problem is that there is a terrible difference in capital between Western European and domestic farmers, which only a fair land traffic law would be able to balance, but that it would give Hungarian farmers a chance to kick a substantial ball on the land market in the future. We also talked a lot about estate policy. We are beyond the second wave of land privatisation, so we now have specific numbers of them facing their earlier promises. You are constantly slipping by including parcels of less than three hectares in the statistics, and you are proud to say here how many farmers have obtained land by number. But when we scratch the surface and see what that means compared to the total area, it turns out that over a hundred hectares are the proportion of areas that represent half of all the land sold. In your opinion, selling the state land in 150 hectares of pieces means supporting the little ones. Anyone living in this country cannot claim that a family farmer has 250-300 million forints to buy land. This is a joke, Mr. Secretary. Even if they give credit - another story about the circumstances under which this is currently taking place - a responsible farmer who knows his own options will not be indebted to hundreds of millions of forints. Obviously, this can only mean serving capitalist interests. In the area of subsidies, on which the latest figures are available, we also see brutal imbalances. Either the politicians near Simonka György get it so that this money disappears and they can't account for it, or they specifically support the capital interests. Brain, Mr. Secretary of State, that the public money that should be spent on helping the countryside and creating real, meaningful, quality jobs is not spent on this, but on the richest, the billion-dollar capital interests we are pushing on with this money. I say the figures in 2015, Mr Secretary of State, and you can no longer take this into account the rural development principles of poorly negotiated MSZP-SZDSZ governments, which is a hundred percent your government's responsibility, and here you are the only ones who have set the framework and options. We are talking about HUF 770 billion in 2015 alone. For everyone to understand, because it's an incomprehensible amount for an ordinary person, it's 40 tons of banknotes in 20 grand. 76 percent of this was received by the top 10 percent most supported. And you can't claim that this area payment is on the basis of a subject matter, because only 40 percent of all the money, and the rest, could have been divided according to their own principles. And we meet with the usual names: Leisztinger, Csányi or even Lőrinc Mészáros, who in one year increased his support rate by 65 percent. This cannot in any way be understood as supporting family farmers. Tell me honestly, Mr. Secretary, that there is no mention of any previous promises, and you have turned to the side of capital. I look forward to your substantive answer. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2016-04-26-10	Thank you, Congressman. On behalf of the government, István Nagy State Secretary will state the government's position. [[9.30]]
u2016-04-26-11	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, My dear fellow Member, The truth is, he compared numbers and trends that are absolutely contradictory to each other, and to conclude this is nothing more than a political mood. What's this about? Let's go back to what you said. On the one hand, what he said at the beginning is a legacy, because the European Union's resource system that the Fidesz-KDNP government inherited in 2010 was already given. You can't say that at the first opportunity, when you could touch this way, how to distribute these resources, the government didn't do that. What legal environments did we bring? 300 hectares may be the number of land owned by a person. In the area of leased land over 1200 hectares, we have introduced degression, i.e. we have moved these subsidies from each pillar to pillar two, precisely so that rural development funds can reach small farmers, farmers, as much as possible. We've been talking about buying land for foreigners. I guess I don't have to personally prove to you how much we've fought against the pocket contracts. Recall the conditions in the country in 2010 regarding the purchase of land and the renting of land for foreigners, and look at where we are now and how successfully we fought with pocket contracts at the time and to this day. It is not for nothing that the Hungarian Land Traffic Act is considered to be the strictest law in Europe, and we must not answer the questions that we are asked in Brussels for a reason, and we must not defend ourselves by doing so precisely by accident. He was talking about estate policy, and he was saying different numbers again. I must say to you, my dear fellow Member, that 42 hectares is the average land purchased by Hungarian land buyers during the auction. And you can't say that there was discrimination in this, and it wasn't on the same terms, because the banking environment, the banking condition that you could get to these lands, the way you could, in bidding, with full public auctions, a deposit of 10 or 20 percent, a loan of 1.95 percent, which doesn't charge existing real estate, only applies to the land purchased, with a 20-year ban on disposal, I think that for everyone who wants to live in agriculture, who wants to improve their property, who wants to establish a long-term livelihood from agriculture, it was a very excellent opportunity, and our farmers are practically using it. It says that subsidies are distributed disproportionately. I must say, my dear fellow Member, and here I would like to emphasise very strongly how this is going to happen. If you had properly examined only land-based subsidies, i.e. SAPS, you would have seen how SAPS subsidies would have been reduced in the owned areas leased by companies and how private-owned areas would be increased, since the ratio is already 52 percent, we have reversed this trend. But you will wash together the funds that we have based our defenses on precisely, because when we introduced degression, remember how much struggle went on to support hand-to-hand labour-intensive sectors, to support livestock production, vegetables- fruit production, gardeners, it is natural to give extra funding to these sectors. You will also bring together this amount of aid, and you will make your ruling, which is completely excluded, because if we hadn't done that, we would have done a lot of harm to Hungary in the countryside. But with extra subsidies on both livestock and gardening and fruit and vegetables, we can, of course, defend the negative consequences of degression and strengthen the development of the countryside. If you only look at how applications will develop in the coming period, the HUF 500 million ceiling that a tender can win will be able to help small farmers again in the future. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-04-26-12	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Mr Lajos Kósa, Head of the Fidesz Group, also applied for a speech before the agenda. You have the floor, Mr. Group Leader.
u2016-04-26-13	Mr. President. Dear House, As is well known, the English Office for major fraud has brought proceedings against the four leaders of the French company Alstom for transferring EUR 2.3 million to the BKV and to people close to the BKV in order to make the metro investment the most suitable for the Alstom trains. In this context, it has also become clear that the information of the Hungarian Times clearly shows that the socialists [[There's a noise in Jobbik's ranks. The president's ringing the bell.]] His prime minister Péter Medgyessy's company received some HUF 180 million of this bribe money, some EUR 600 thousand in two instalments. In this connection, the question arises as to whether the Prime Minister of the Socialists can account for the grounds for receiving such a significant sum from Alstom. If Alstom transferred EUR 2.3 million to BKV and to BKV - one of them was Péter Medgyessy's family company - then where is the rest of the money, where was transferred, to whom was transferred, who was involved in this unprecedented series of fraud, while we know precisely that in connection with the metro investment carried out by BKV, Alstom purchases only kicked to HUF 65 billion and caused very significant damage to BKV and the Hungarian State, as there is no misunderstanding, Hungarian taxpayers also supported the metro investment with a significant amount. Therefore, the question arises: who were the people involved in this unprecedented corruption case? The then mayor was called Gábor Demszky, the then Minister for Development, or the one who dealt with these issues as advisors, another Socialist Prime Minister Gordon Bajnai, or the responsible leaders of the BKV - somewhere in this circle you have to earn the rest of the money. I believe that the Supreme Public Prosecutor's Office, who, by the way, has long been investigating the anomaly around the Alstom acquisitions, on the basis of this newly-known fact, should extend the investigative circle to a significant extent and should listen to the Socialist Prime Minister, the Mayor and all potential stakeholders, because it appears from the data that 2.3 million euros have been transferred, based on the data of the office of particularly serious fraud in England, we only know 600 million that Medgyessy has landed at the company of the Socialist Prime Minister Péter Medgyessy. In view of the fact that the anomalies surrounding the metro investment have not only been affected here, but also in other areas, there has been very serious damage not only to the capital, but also to the entire country by exceeding all existing costs of the metro investment, a wide-ranging investigation of possible abuses has to be launched, because the acquisitions of Alstom were not the only ones suspected of corruption in the BKV area. The 600 thousand euros transferred by Alstom, which we know has landed with the Socialist Prime Minister, can only surprise those who have not observed the economic affairs of the former Socialist Prime Minister. Just think of the 30 million forints recorded in connection with the sale of the Gresham Palace, which, according to many legal experts, raised suspicions of influence trading, abuse, or just think of the consulting contract with the Paks Nuclear Power Plant, which could not be carried out in the same way as any performance certificate can be found in connection with the numerous, rather greasy investments made by Political Capital. I believe that, in the 25-year history of our democracy, the Prime Minister has never been so seriously accused. So I think that this should be followed up by Parliament, too, and that former Socialist Prime Minister Péter Medgyessy should account for the amounts that were transferred from Alstom to him as corruption and bribes. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] [[9.40]]
u2016-04-26-14	Thank you, Mr. Group Leader. On behalf of the Government, Mr Csaba Dömötör, State Secretary, responds to what has been said.
u2016-04-26-15	Dear Chief of Staff, When Péter Medgyessy resigned, many of us learned that he continued to work as a traveling ambassador. Anyone who thought it meant a permanent Cuban cocktail for some sort of conduction was seriously mistaken. If the press news is true, the former Socialist Prime Minister's family company landed HUF 180 million in connection with the Alstom case, in which criminal proceedings are being conducted both in the United Kingdom and in Hungary. The press reports released today have led the United Kingdom's Office against Major Fraud to accuse some of Alstom's leaders of handing over more than two million euros as members of a criminal organisation to BKV officials or agents in order to influence the capital transport company in order to purchase the Alstom trains. If the press briefings are true, according to the data of the British office, one of the subsidiaries of Alstom concluded large-scale, non-work-compensating consultancy contracts in its sales destination countries, in Hungarian: therefore, the suspicion is that they covered bribes through consultancy contracts. In the past, the State Audit Office also examined the scandalous procurement, and the report found that the Hungarian State and the capital had a significant financial disadvantage. The current mayor turned to the Attorney General, the investigation is still ongoing. So it seems that another considerable set of skeletons is falling out of the locker of socialist governance. I think everyone has a right to expect to know what happened and whether the corruption charges are true. It is therefore necessary to explore all possible aspects of the Alstom case, to examine how the case is linked to socialist, left-wing governance, to examine the involvement of left-wing prime ministers and the possible responsibility of the former mayor. The Government will urge a full investigation and, in addition to the work of the authorities, it is also necessary for the Metropolitan Assembly to examine the circumstances of the case. If the charges of the British authorities were proven, it would once again prove that the left is full of corruption cases. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-04-26-16	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, István Hollik, from the Group of the Christian Democratic People's Party, also applied for a speech before the agenda: "2017: a tax reduction and a budget for home creation." You have the floor, Congressman.
u2016-04-26-17	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, The Minister of National Economy will present the draft budget of Hungary for 2017 to Parliament today, at these moments. It is worth counting and looking at how we have come to this point, and the draft budget for next year will guide our country. We can say that today the country's economy and the Hungarian budget are stable. The question now is what the government should use additional resources for economic growth while not forgetting to reduce public debt. At the same time, it must also be said that the situation has not always been so good. In 2010, six years ago, the country was on the verge of bankruptcy, and the Socialist government also conducted irresponsible policy in financial policy: public debt was increased from HUF 8000 billion to HUF 21 000 billion. Many corruption cases can be traced back to that time, their roots lead from Miklós Hagyó to Gyula Molnár, or we can now put the cases of Alstom and Péter Medgyessy here. Hundreds of tricks were used in 2006 to make them believe that the budget deficit was not 9.6%, even though it turned out to be that. Meanwhile, with the irresponsible management of the state's money, the family taxation system has been abolished, home-building subsidies have been abolished and the price of energy has been increased more than 20 times, despite the promise by Ildikó Lendvai. It is not exaggeration to say, therefore, that the country was dancing on the brink. After 2010, the Fidesz-KDNP government fixed the state's finances: it reduced government debt every year and kept the budget deficit below 3 percent. This socialists did not succeed once during their eight-year government, the Fidesz-KDNP government has always been successful since 2011, and there was even a year when the deficit did not even reach 2 percent. [[Dr. Zsolt Crew intervenes.]] However, the budgets not only complied with the rules of financial discipline, but also reflected the values of the Fidesz-KDNP government. That is why every budget has supported families with all its strength over the past six years, and has done everything in its power to make sure that every Hungarian person who wants to work can. It is also worth taking a look at Europe for a sentence, as Socialists have increased public debt at a time when it has decreased in several European countries due to a favourable global economy environment. And Fidesz-KDNP is able to continuously reduce public debt when it is increasing in almost all European countries. But we can also see a similar trend in economic growth. Under their governance, the socialists were able to show a GDP growth below the EU average, while even the country was indebted. On the other hand, during the Fidesz-KDNP government, Hungary produced an increase above the EU average with declining public debt. [[Dr. Zsolt Crew intervenes.]] Thanks to the government's efforts over the past six years and the work of the Hungarian people, Hungary is now stable: the economy is growing beyond the European average, we have repaid the IMF and the European Union's credit, and public debt is on a declining path. The Hungarian reforms work, and as a result, next year's budget ensures that every Hungarian person can take a step forward in his own life. In particular, the 2017 budget will be a budget for tax reductions and home creation. In this, the government continues to support working people by containing 15% of personal income tax, one of the lowest in the EU countries. In addition, with the help of career models, the government provides workers with predictability and wage increases adapted to the burden-bearing capacity of the economy. The Hungarian families are also beneficiaries of the budget next year, as the tax relief for two children will continue to increase, which will amount to HUF 15,000 per child in 2017. But the government will continue to operate the family home-building discount in 2016, which will be available again next year. Three or more children can receive a HUF 10 million non-refundable allowance for the construction or purchase of a new apartment. The 2017 budget will therefore be a budget for tax reductions and home creation, which will help the growth of Hungarian people and Hungarian families. It will also ensure that Hungary remains a safe, stable, developing country, as it has been so far, despite migration at European level and the threat of terrorism. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-04-26-18	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, [[Turning to opposition benches:]] I've got a small screen in front of me, and I'm looking at how it's gesturing, talking, and the back side of the screen. I give the floor to the Secretary of State, András Tállai, who responds on behalf of the government.
u2016-04-26-19	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, Indeed, the current budget is the truest mirror of the government's operation, activity and policy, as it shows whether the government is able to run the country, whether the economy, the revenue from the budget can be collected, whether the scale of redistribution is reduced, and whether the government is able to take account of the interests of society, people, citizens, families and businesses in the redistribution. I think that the budgets submitted by the government of Fidesz-KDNP - both for recent years and for 2017 - meet these expectations. Government economic policy is effective, and it is recognised by credit rating agencies at the level of the European Union at international level. As the Member said, Mihály Varga, Minister of National Economy, will present to Parliament today the draft budget bill for 2017, which Parliament will discuss this spring and hopefully the majority of Parliament will accept. [[9.50]] It is very important that the budget reflects our ability to meet our targets and expectations at macroeconomic level. One important issue is how the economy is growing. The 2017 budget plan provides a well-founded 3.1 percent increase in GDP, which is also recognised for the European Union, and belongs to the first third, at the forefront. The investment rate is increasing significantly as it is planned to exceed 20 per cent, thus contributing to the growth of the economy. The planning of budget revenue and expenditure appropriations is also well founded on the basis of recent years. This is supported by the opinion of the Fiscal Council. The 2017 budget deficit target is 2.4 per cent, which means that the government, the Ministry of National Economy, is planning a zero-percent deficit in terms of operation. Extra expenditure can only be achieved in terms of development and investment. I also think that this is a very serious achievement, based on the achievements of recent years. It is very important that Hungary's debt is reduced according to the standards and rules laid down in the Stability Act and the Fundamental Law. As in previous years, the 2017 budget will meet this requirement and the debt ratio will fall below 72 per cent of GDP. This will reach 73.5 percent by the end of 2016 and fall below 72 percent in the following year. This indicator represents a significant improvement, since the Stability Act requires a reduction of 0.1 percentage points, but we are planning to reduce by 1.5 percent, i.e. significantly greater than that laid down in the Law. But of course it is not enough to talk about the budget in five minutes, which is why I would like to mention in the headlines, as you said, that career models and career systems will continue to grow, incomes will continue to increase in law enforcement, among teachers, higher education, state officials' careers will start according to the 2016 budget, and the income of the National Tax and Customs Office staff will also increase. Tax rates are dropping, family tax incentives are increasing. A further reduction in the rate of VAT, which affects the entire population of the country, and an extension of the conditions for the home creation support you mentioned, which consists of several parts: VAT reductions, state aid rates and national home-building communities [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] of the possibility provided by the Member State concerned. Thank you very much for your speech. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-04-26-20	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. We have reached the end of the speeches before the agenda. Dear Parliament, I declare that, at the initiative of the Jobbik Group, the extraordinary meeting of the House Committee will take place at 12 a.m. in Room 37-38 of the main floor. Dear Parliament, CXXXIX of 2013 on the Magyar Nemzeti Bank, adopted by the Parliament on the 1 March 2016 meeting, sent back for consideration by the President of the Republic. Discussion of the legislative committee report and amendment proposal submitted to the law amending law. Text of the Act sent to the President of the Republic for signature T/9380/12. No. T/9380/13, letter from the President of the Republic is available on the parliamentary IT network. Amendment proposal of the Legislative Committee T/9380/15. by serial number T/9380/16. Available on the website. Dear Parliament, First, the position of the Legislative Committee and the formulated minority opinion will be presented in a total period of 15 minutes. First, I give the floor to Mr Vas Imre, rapporteur of the committee, within an eight-minute time frame.
u2016-04-26-21	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, I hereby inform the Parliament that the Legislative Committee is the House Rule 79. CXXXIX of 2013 on the National Bank of Hungary was discussed on 21 April 2016. T/9380. The President of the Republic returned the bill to Parliament because of the provision declared contrary to the Basic Law. In order to delete and clarify the anti-law provisions and the closely related texts, the Legislative Committee submitted an amendment by 23 votes in favour, 5 against and 5 abstentions. The Constitutional Court 8/2016. In its decision, it stated that the right to know public data of general interest or public interest by defining the types of data... - the law, the information law 27. § 2 may be restricted for the reasons listed in paragraph 2. Act on the National Bank of Hungary 162. However, the new paragraph 4 of Section 4 did not state the reason for the disclosure of the data to the public, and the legislator did not determine the interest in restricting the disclosure of data. Thus, although it is not excluded that the restriction of the publicity of certain data of general interest managed by the companies of the National Bank of Hungary is constitutionally justified, the need for a restriction introduced by law cannot be established - a quote from the decision of the Constitutional Court. In view of this, the amending proposal deletes the new 162th amendment to be incorporated into the law. Paragraph 4 of this Article. According to the amending proposal, as set out in the Ab Decision, I would like to emphasise that legal restrictions can only be interpreted and applied in accordance with the provisions of the Information Act. To this end, the amendment proposed under Article 162 of the Act. § 3 is proposed to delete paragraph 3 by simplifying the fact that the 2011 CXII on the right of information self-determination and freedom of information. The provisions of law on the processing of data where the MNB law does not provide for different provisions shall apply in the same way. Furthermore, the Constitutional Court has stated that freedom of information is not an absolute fundamental right, but the need for a restriction introduced by law in the present form of data managed by Hungarian national banking foundations with public finances and public tasks cannot be justified. Therefore, the amending proposal also deletes the provision in this regard and, in this context, provides that the management of foundations established by the Hungarian National Bank is and must be controlled by the State Audit Office. The Constitutional Court also held that Article 5 of the Law § 183/G of the Act on the National Bank of Hungary The provision laid down in Article B (1) of the Fundamental Law, which lays down paragraph 3 of Article B (1) of the Fundamental Law, is also contrary to fundamental law, and the Committee therefore proposes that the provision be deleted. [[Dr. András Schiffer: That's what we said!]] The provision of Article B (1) of the Fundamental Law, which lays down paragraph 1 of Article B (1) of the Fundamental Law, is also contrary to the basic law, and the Committee therefore proposes that the provision be deleted. (Dr. András Schiffer: That's what we said!) [[10.00]] I believe that the Legislative Committee has fully complied with the observations and constitutional requirements of the Constitutional Court. The provisions declared to be against the basic law were not improved, but simply deleted, so, without a doubt, Parliament can adopt legislation in accordance with the Fundamental Law. I ask your support for this. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-04-26-22	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Two speakers presented the minority opinion formulated in the committee in a total time frame of seven minutes. First, I give the floor to Congressman Gergely Bárándy.
u2016-04-26-23	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Indeed, a rather broad minority opinion was formulated at the meeting of the Legislative Committee. First of all, opposition representatives suggested that the adoption of the bill was not suitable for anything other than a delay, since anyone who had a little understanding of the law or looked at the opinion of the president of NAIH immediately saw that the bill was unconstitutional in several respects, so it is unlikely that it will enter into force. This has been too much for your President of the Republic and for the Constitutional Court that you have uploaded. The other thing is that not only was the presidential veto of the Republic new in the situation in which we discussed this proposal, but also that György Matolcsy received a question about his salary, and the response to that resulted in a small public scandal. This should have been taken into account when the legislative proposal was decided by the Legislative Committee or decided to accept or reject the amendments. [[Interventions in opposition benches.]] Yes, as my fellow Members have indicated, I am surprised that Mr Bánki, on behalf of the rapporteur, is not in the Chamber. You should at least listen to what opinions have been expressed and what we are thinking here in Parliament. By the way, in parentheses, I do not know whether the proposal can be negotiated in the absence of a rapporteur. The other thing that was formulated at the committee meeting was that György Matolcsy's salary of five million was excessive. He was exaggerating, especially considering that György Matolcsy was still a Member of Parliament, who defined the salary of his predecessor as the President of the Central Bank, and supported it with his vote. [[Erik Bánki arrives in the Chamber.]] György Matolcsy received the same salary as his predecessor, which he agreed to as bank president. Compared to this, it is quite a rebuttal that when we are in the Hungarian public sector at the very end of the EU average, whether we consider health care or the social sphere or other areas, it is considered the most important that pro-government representatives raise the salary of the central bank president; because, as he said, this is what he deserves. In fact, we should have taken the initiative to raise his salary, working in such an excellent way. By the way, in order not to pass the time, it turns out that this is not only the problem, but that György Matolcsy gave his two cousins virtually hundreds of millions of forints of the funds of the Foundations of the Hungarian National Bank, that he intended 70 million forints and the rest to assist his own book. With all this, ladies and gentlemen, I have, in this context, given the minority opinion that has been formulated. As far as constitutionalism is concerned, I understand that Congressman Staudt will appear. Thank you very much.
u2016-04-26-24	Thank you very much. I give the floor to Congressman Gábor Staudt, three minutes and 25 seconds.
u2016-04-26-25	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, I will try to partially repeat and partially sum up the debate that was held at the committee meeting. Unfortunately, the professional parts didn't pass, as they say. In my opinion, this proposal is still not constitutional. The main problems have been eliminated, which is now known, and the hundreds of billions of public funds will remain at the foundations. In fact, it was never a question, although listening to Imre Vas, who is not in the room now, as I see it, may have been a great novum for him. It was also said at the committee's meeting that the Constitutional Court, the Constitutional Court of the Fidesz majority, had the same choice; it had no choice at all. Because if the Constitutional Court had said that this nearly 300 billion forints of public money would be private money with a drawing or a legislative amendment, I don't think they would have spoken to the President of the Constitutional Court for a long time at European level if he had pulled one of these or if they hadn't taken this step. This was such a flagrant lawlessness, which the Parliament should simply have noticed - we told you. The other problem, which is why this proposal is still in conflict with the legal hierarchy and the Fundamental Law, is that it opens up the data circle, the data of the MNB in companies, to a wide extent, which is about determining the types of data, which, in my view, does not correspond to the sections of the info law. After all, the info law says that the provisions which, by the way, apply to public finances and the provisions of Article 27. Paragraph 2 (2) (e) clearly requires that data types are also marked when they can actually be included in this non-public area. I do not consider the definition of data types to be data on the performance of any of its tasks. So, actually, there is a back and forth reference. Here, too, I would warn you that we are talking not only about companies owned exclusively, but also about the majority. So if the Hungarian National Bank owns 51 percent of a company that puts it under its core tasks, or otherwise does not endanger its core tasks - of course it can be debated on this - but the Central Bank Act gives it the opportunity to own almost any company, if it does not otherwise endanger its core tasks, it can do so - let us say, 51 percent of it owns any other company carrying out activities other than its tasks, and any data generated by this company cannot be made public, this does not meet the required criteria for the types of data. Moreover, it does not correspond to the reasons you have described, because, citing the Constitutional Court, it is perfectly clear in the explanatory statement of this proposal that the range of data types should have been described. This isn't happening. So this proposal is still against the law. It would have been better to correct the bigger mistakes without leaving the smaller ones in it. Thank you.
u2016-04-26-26	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I will ask the author if he wishes to speak now, or at the end of the debate. [[Erik Bánki: At the end.]] At the end of the debate. Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, At the end of the debate, there will be a ten-minute timeframe for the Member. I'll ask if you wish to speak on behalf of the government, Secretary of State of Tallai.
u2016-04-26-27	Mr President, Dear Parliament, The Government supports the proposed amendments.
u2016-04-26-28	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, It is now up to the Members to speak within the time-frame on the agenda. There is no possibility of a two-minute comment during the debate. First, I give the floor to the Members who have applied in advance in writing. First of all, I would like to ask Mr Sándor Burány, the representative of the MSZP, for his speech.
u2016-04-26-29	Thank you, Mr President, for the floor. Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, Dear House, Since last Friday, we know exactly what they were trying to hide. Last Friday, the Hungarian National Bank had no choice but to put on its website the data that socialist representatives had sued from the Hungarian National Bank. [[10.10]] At the same time, although not posted on their website, they sent me the data in electronic form that complements those published on Friday. Moreover, their content is also shameful to the Hungarian National Bank. First of all, I would like to note that the publication of the data sent to us by e-mail will be created by the MSZP, which anyone else can access in this country. Let's look at the facts. At first, we suspected that we were simply dealing with a whimsical central bank president, who spent billions of public funds for his own personal purposes, on his whims. We thought that György Matolcsy was in the mood for the real estate market competition, and he started buying various luxury properties from the Hungarian National Bank, turning it into a kind of real estate management company. At the beginning, we thought that not only Árpád Habony was worshiped by the arts, but also the President of the Central Bank, György Matolcsy, and bought various art treasures from public funds. We thought that we were dealing with a real life artist, and that is why the Hungarian National Bank plans to open a wine shop in the Castle, and that is why it plans to buy various wellness areas in its properties; these plans were quickly improved, but all the inscriptions could not be removed because of the shortness of time. So in the beginning we thought - and this in itself is shameful - that there was nothing more than the fact that the Hungarian National Bank spent nearly HUF 300 billion on its own personal branches, simply because it could, because the government, as an organization exercising ownership rights, did not have a word about whether the activities of the Hungarian National Bank correspond to the activities of the Magyar Nemzeti Bank or something else. But on the one hand, the government did not have a word, and on the other hand, when the National Bank of Hungary tried to hide these data, the government supported the bill here in Parliament; the narrow version of it, which envisages a salary increase for the President of the National Bank of Hungary, even though the government confirmed at these very moments that it also supported it, obviously because it agrees with these objectives. Since last Friday, we know that we are not simply talking about a Hungarian Nabob, a central bank president starting from public funds to companies in Habji-duzs, but also an extensive business activity that raises suspicion of illegal activity. It is quite amazing that the Magyar Nemzeti Bank is trying to provide Fidesz-close businesses with a source of public money to create and finance media empires, so that it is able to support its own relatives in the amount of tens of millions of HUF. It is quite amazing that the Hungarian National Bank's profits - and let's not forget that György Matolcsy worked on weakening the forint as both a member of the government and as a central bank president, instead of working to strengthen it, this profit was generated by it, which is now being spent in such a scandalous way by the Hungarian National Bank. After that, we'd think we'd be witnessing some kind of personal consistency. In the Ottoman Empire, the Sultan sent a silk cord. Of course, in a democratic rule of law, this is not a practice, it cannot be a practice. In a democratic state, those who have been caught, will resign and face the consequences as a private person. That's not what happened. György Matolcsy has been alive and well since the scandal started, but Fidesz remembers to give him a raise. It is quite amazing that, instead of picking up his tent, and from the head of the Hungarian National Bank, he would disappear from the Hungarian economic policy after such a scandalous history, Fidesz believes that György Matolcsy himself thinks that he has done an age-old act with this scandalous operation, rather than resign, on the contrary, a raise should be given to him. And since György Matolcsy complained that it had not occurred to opposition representatives last week - György Matolcsy complained in plenary about why MEPs did not propose to raise his salary - we would not have thought of such a thing after all, Fidesz would do this for us, and except for some of the beauty errors in the entire bill, there is still enough left to increase the salary of the President of the Central Bank, who is engaged in a scandalous activity, to HUF 5 million. Quite amazing, ladies and gentlemen. The position of the Hungarian Socialist Party is that all data relating to the waste of public funds must be made public, everyone who has sinned must take responsibility, and this bill must be forgotten and withdrawn as it is. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2016-04-26-30	Thank you, Congressman. The next announced speaker was János Volner, a better Member.
u2016-04-26-31	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, More people can remember the sharp debates that took place here in the National Assembly regarding the encryptions around the foundations of the Hungarian National Bank. Jobbik's position has always been that the foundations of the National Bank of Hungary and the National Bank of Hungary both manage public funds, and the public funds regulations must be in place, in a transparent and verifiable manner, and must spend these public funds on the basis of appropriate objectives. It is important to see that the government side - although we have regularly given detailed legal reasoning here about why this should remain public money and why it should be managed in a transparent way with this money - has constantly talked about the fact that this money is now divorcing the founder, losing the nature of public money, and therefore should not be subject to transparency rules. When I wrote to President János Áder the letter in which I asked the President of the Republic to send this bill to the Constitutional Court for preliminary standard control, I did it because I was sure that this law would bleed out at the Constitutional Court, and I wanted this law not to be effective, that is to say, to get back to Parliament as soon as possible, and to settle as much as possible the errors and shortcomings of this law. First of all, it is very important to state that the money of the Hungarian National Bank cannot be spent as pocket money. This money is basically owned by the Hungarian state. In principle, national banks in Europe act by paying their profits to the State rather than by managing it as their own pocket money. It is very important to see that Fidesz has created a completely absurd central bank law that leaves to the central bank what it is doing with this profit, and that the public owner cannot enforce its legitimate and reasonable needs vis-à-vis the Hungarian National Bank, since the profits of the central bank are not managed by the state, not by the budget - for example, if we consider government priorities, it does not go to a sovereign debt reduction, or it is mister's forgiveness when patients and their relatives now regularly buy bandages and medicines, it is not used to strengthen health - but the President of the Central Bank and his narrow circle are completely free of these money. We have proposed that Fidesz change the practice of unparalleled central bank settlement in Europe, and we have mentioned the UK central bank's profit accounting practice here not so long ago in detail, and we have proposed to the government side to follow it, in a much stricter settlement, to enforce the state's ownership interests over the central bank. This is, of course, totally unacceptable, what we found out here, and what I spoke about before yesterday's agenda, these facts, these specific company names, and the names of individuals, I would not like to go through, but a fact that it was apparent that at the National Bank of Hungary, the various private businesses, books and so on were financed by relatives, friends, acquaintances, board members. [[10.20]] In this way, it is therefore very difficult to say that the funds which were entrusted to the Hungarian National Bank, which were produced at the Hungarian National Bank, would have been managed in a responsible manner by the Hungarian National Bank, not least as a loss in the exchange rate of foreign exchange lenders. Mr. President, thank you very much. [[A round of applause from Jobbik and LMP.]]
u2016-04-26-32	Thank you, Congressman. The next speaker is András Schiffer, LMP. Mr. Team Leader, you have the floor.
u2016-04-26-33	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, I would like to begin by saying, first of all, that, Mr Secretary of State and Mr Bánki, you are accountable here to Parliament, why you thought a month ago that the mass of assets on which the Constitutional Court clearly took a stand would lose its public money character. Doesn't my fellow Member feel a little remorse that he was punched in the face of a country with the same puddle of confidence that this stolen item had lost its public money? I think that what György Matolcsy replied to Gergely Bárándy last week, that since 2010 as the head of the Hungarian state, he has done a successful act of economic history, and therefore he must be paid, is quite amazing. What has been revealed in the last five days is that György Matolcsy should not be given a raise, but be taken on a ledge in a civilised country; that is what this is all about if the D.A. were in place. [[Dr. Csaba Gyüre: That's right.]] Dear Parliament, Do you also have an issue with my honourable fellow Member and Secretary of State that you are therefore ashamed of what György Matolcsy did to the foundations for good reason? Why was it so important to keep this a secret, my fellow Member Banki? Why was it so important to reason a month ago that this information should remain a secret? Here, my fellow Members have told me, but this has also been published in the press about what has been revealed in the last five days. Answer me, get involved in the debate. So you agreed with the opposition that what György Matolcsy and his family did was shameful and must be kept secret. Is that why you argued that this property has lost its public money character because you are ashamed of what the President of the Central Bank, appointed by you, has done? Then, if that is the case, since there is no other reasonable reason why you wanted to keep this impertinent spending secret, I think that the direct procedure would be to withdraw this proposal from raising the salary of György Matolcsy and his accomplices and initiate the replacement of György Matolcsy. György Matolcsy has not been able to stay after the information found in the last five days; he must get out of his chair immediately. It is a shame, it is a shame that such a man can occupy a public office in Hungary today! Dear Parliament, It is very clear from the central bank law that the central bank can carry out its various other tasks only without compromising its basic objective. It is quite obvious from the information revealed in the last five days that, in recent years, the Hungarian National Bank has endangered the fundamental goal by putting Hungary's financial stability at risk. The LMP has also put forward a bill that the Central Bank Act clearly states that all profits generated must be reinvested into public finances. Note that the profits generated at the central bank are not the result of György Matolcsy's wonderful sorcerer activity, but are missing from the pockets of the credit-damaged. When brokers protest and knock about why they don't get enough money for compensation, they also have to ask where the money is at the central bank. The central bank should have a fund to compensate the brokers and the credit victims. Dear Parliament, You wish to raise the salary of the central bank president in a country where, if you look at it in nominal terms, central bank managers' salaries are below those of the other central bank leaders in the EU countries, but if you look at central bank managers' salaries as a proportion of the average wage, György Matolcsy is already one of the most paid central bank managers in the European Union today. Don't look at the nominal value, see how much a regular person earns in Ireland, the Czech Republic, and compare the central bank's salaries to that. The fact is that the policy of the Orbán government in recent years has resulted in wage differences between minimum wage workers and managers rising from 20 to 45 times in a public company. Dear Parliament, If you look at the fact that today the head of a public company, after they've raised the pay ceiling, how their salary is equal to, say, a nurse's salary, you can see that a nurse's two-year salary is being taken home today by the head of a state firm. In such a country, you wish to raise the salary of the central bank president who, by the way, has carried on the assets of the central bank in recent months, in recent years, to his own family members. Shame on you! [[Applause from the ranks of Jobbik and MSZP.]]
u2016-04-26-34	Thank you very much. The next speaker is Congressman Béla Turi-Kovács, Fidesz.
u2016-04-26-35	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I specifically asked for the floor so that my faction would not be subject to the charge of not participating in the debate. We are taking part in this debate, and we are participating in a way that I believe we are trying to be balanced. I think that it is really necessary to draw the basic lessons. This is about walking slowly, moving forward or giving fast and giving twice, these principles have been regularly conflicted in recent years. Everyone has tried - whatever government it was - to move some matter that it thought was right through Parliament as quickly as possible. I am not in favour of this, the debate of cases is very often able to bring very positive results. That's one of the lessons of the case. Another lesson for this matter is that I believe it should take place in the long term. The President of the Republic also stated in his protest, which is a very, very important statement, clearly referring to Article B (1) of the Constitutional Law, that legislation with retroactive effect is unconstitutional. We must pay attention to this, and I believe that such a mistake should not be made in the coming years, in order to try to adopt any provisions with retroactive effect. [[Intercoms from Jobbik, among them: There will be more.]] With reference to Article 1 (1) of the Treaty, it states that the law with retroactive effect is unconstitutional. We must pay attention to this, and I believe that such a mistake should not be made in the coming years, in order to try to adopt any provisions with retroactive effect. (Intercoms from Jobbik's ranks, including: There will be more!) It doesn't make sense, because, look, the brakes and counterweights work in Hungary, they stop in Hungary. And that's why we're learning from this case. There was no mention here that the government was trying to push through something that we have now heard from the opposition, from all speakers. If there were and there are anomalies, it's right what the Attorney General said, whoever did it, the D.A.'s office will investigate this case, and in this case, you will make the decision either to establish a crime or to establish a lack of it. There is another lesson to be learned from this case, and there is one important part that I suggest that we try to look at for the future. Is the legislation fully in place with regard to the functioning of foundations? It is necessary to consider once again the functioning of the foundations, in particular the extent to which the founding responsibility extends to the functioning of the foundations. This is a very important question. What we are now hearing from the opposition is that for such acts in the foundation that I do not know exactly what they are and what they are, because I did not examine this, I could not examine it as if the founder was responsible. I think that there is no legal basis for this today. Consequently, the fact is that if we want to have some kind of responsibility on the part of the founders, i.e. for the future, this will only be regulated by law. At this moment, therefore, I believe that what we have heard here from Congressman Vas, which summarized the positions that have been taken so far, i.e. the position of the government side, they stop, they are correct, and, consequently, the amendment is eligible and acceptable in this sense. [[Applause from the Fidesz ranks.]]
u2016-04-26-36	Thank you very much, Congressman. The next speaker is Congressman Gábor Staudt, Jobbik.
u2016-04-26-37	Thank you very much. Mr. President. Dear House, In the remaining time available, I would like to nuance this image. Although we are very pleased that our fellow Member, Mr Turi-Kovács, has commented on this debate, we would very much like to see people who have been actively involved, or who have taken this proposal to their name, or who have taken the previous proposal to their name. And my fellow Member, András Schiffer, is absolutely right to say something. [[10.30]] If a person presents a proposal that is clearly unconstitutional, this can be seen, it was already seen at the time of submission, but when the opposition unanimously said which points, which, by the way, are certain to lie down before the Constitutional Court, and that was pushed through, accepted, and the only thing they could trust was that, say, János Áder would sign this proposal, or if the opposition turned to the Constitutional Court, the Constitutional Court would look the other way, and not establish this. But even they couldn't do that on such a proposal. We are talking about huge amounts, about 1 percent of GDP, about 300 billion forints. They're horriable money that's incomprehensible. They tried to convert incomprehensible amounts here into private money, losing their public money character, deprived of their public money character, and this is roughly the Hungarian budget figure, although for 2016, It's being presented now, but if you look at the last few years, it's roughly, roughly 2 percent. In fact, it can be said that what Hungary does not spend 2 percent on defence expenditure is the amount that the Matolcsys spend on foundations and alternative education and everything else. Seeing the data that came out, there was something to hide, and there was something to be afraid of. I must also say that in the committee debate, I was not convinced here about the types of data that this law was still in order. Attila Péterfalvi, who was present, said, although I saw that his revelation was not 100 percent confident in this regard, as he said that, for example, in the defence of the military, the defense law named the personal and asset pool as something that could not be made public, so disclosure can be denied. But I beg of you, the progress of personnel and assets in a law enforcement agency or in the defense, is entirely logical that it is not a public data. It is not about the fact that any data of an MNB company, or a majority-owned company, could fall into a circle that would violate central financial or foreign exchange policy under the info law. So this is not the definition of a type of data. I'm sure that's not acceptable in this form. If you had taken the trouble, as you didn't take it, and at least one list was written in it, you would have looked at which data you wanted to protect, and let's say, a longer or shorter list, however long it is, will be included in the law, then it may be a reference, at least formally, that the law complies with the info law or the Fundamental Law. But you didn't even do that. Of course, there could have been a reference to whether or not the individual sub-items are a violation of central financial interests. This could have been referred to, but at least formally this law would have been adopted in compliance with the law and at the most content discussions could have been held. But with this solution, they still opened the door so wide that it would only be possible to sue these companies and sue them for disclosure of data of general interest. Of course, you can say that at least you can sue. Well, thank you very much, at least there's this possibility, but it's still a reference to concealing any information from any of the MNB's companies. This should have been changed and failed, and we will, of course, not be able to support the proposal in this form, together with what has been said. Thank you. [[It's a rare round of applause from the Jobbik benches. Dr. András Schiffer applauds.]]
u2016-04-26-38	Thank you, Congressman. I give the floor to Mr Szabó Szabolcs, an independent Member.
u2016-04-26-39	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I would like to point out that the Joint will not support this legislative amendment proposal. The problem is not in itself how many million forints a person earns. By the way, if someone's doing a good job, they have to pay, I think. For example, a good financial expert at the head of the National Bank deserves 5 million forints or even 10 forints. Here's the question of who's doing what work. György Matolcsy is doing a bad job. Not only does he deserve to be paid, but he should be paid to be allowed into that building at all, that's about all there is to know about it, and an economist or an economist, the profession knows exactly this about György Matolcsy, that he doesn't know his profession. This case is typical proof that you don't know your profession. What happened? He took the accounting or financial gain, mainly due to the change in the forint exchange rate, and put it in private foundations, the foundations he grudged, of which mostly financed the operation of the state. By the way, if they did this on the primary market, it's actually against the rules. Not to mention that in technical terms it is the use of bank postpress, which is not considered to be applied or even particularly harmful in a farm of a Hungarian character or characteristic of Hungary. What my fellow Member Turi-Kovács said came to my mind yesterday when the Attorney General stood up and said that his wife should not be accused of anything, since the prosecutor's office he is running has not yet accused him of anything. I'll imagine that anyone will accuse George Matolcsy, for example. Of course, there won't be any accusations, they'll be laying the case, even though we've filed a complaint. It's not gonna be a case, we know that. From now on, it's more of a cynicism category, I think. It is also true that, of course, it is legally possible to argue that the foundation is independent and has nothing to do with György Matolcsy, but he has appointed the curators and members of the fb. Thank you very much.
u2016-04-26-40	Thank you, Congressman. I'll ask... [[For signal:]] I'm not gonna ask because I can see there's more speakers. I give the floor to Congressman Gergely Bárándy.
u2016-04-26-41	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, First of all, I would like to say and object to the fact that we are used to hearing from Fidesz and the government that it is only in the closing of sensitive matters. But I believe that when the President of the Republic turns to the Constitutional Court, the body finds a law unconstitutional, and that it is here again in front of the House, at the very least, that the government will be involved in the debate, at the very least, that the author will enter the debate in such a way that the opposition can respond to his manifestation. I find it quite cynical and amazing that they have not done this again, although, as my fellow Member Schiffer said, he certainly has a responsibility in this matter. The other thing I would respond to, what Congressman Turi said, is that they adopt laws quickly. It's possible to blame the previous parliaments, but it's always been 1-2-3 weeks, which was a quick ride. You brought in the fashion of adopting laws within 24 hours of submission. One more thing. No one is trying to smear the responsibility of the past by talking about the future. Here, the responsibility of the past must also be examined in these cases. At a time when this happens in the foundations, which is, one thing is certain, without examining the founding responsibility, that the chairman of the foundation and the member of the board of trustees do have responsibility for the operation of the foundation. The chairman of the foundation is called György Matolcsy, and, let's say, one of the curators of the foundation is the wife of the Attorney General Péter Polt. Their responsibility must therefore be examined in these matters. And precisely because of what happened, György Matolcsy would have only one option, and to quote a classic from the Walking Gallows, you could say what the witch who got busted at the witch rehearsal at the time would say, "Hell, I got busted," and resigned. Thank you very much.
u2016-04-26-42	Thank you, Congressman. I'm gonna see if there's any other commenters. [[There's no candidate.]] I can't see. Dear Parliament, The debate is closed. I give the floor to Mr Erik Bánki, who is the rapporteur of the proposal, and he wishes to respond to what has been said in the debate. You have a 10-minute time frame.
u2016-04-26-43	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, I'm sorry, but because of my illness, my voice isn't very bright, I'm trying to make it as loud as possible so that everyone can understand and hear what I'm saying. Responding to what was said in the debate, first of all, Mr Gergely Bárándy asked why we did not get involved in the debate. [[Dr. Gergely Bárándy: Why?]] I believe that at the meeting of the TAB, I held a fair introduction to what had been the history of the bill, why it has been amended and what we intend to achieve with the amendments. Compared to this, there was virtually no substantive argument in this session, as we have heard today, in today's session, only political lounges. [[Dr. Gergely Bárándy: This is a political body, isn't it?]] Perhaps the most spectacular of this was my colleague, Sándor Burány. [[Dr. Gergely Bárándy: This is not a professional, this is a political body.]] Who has not addressed any of the points of the proposal, however, has talked long about the operational anomalies of the central bank, at least which he considers to be anomalies in the functioning of the foundations. [[10.40]] I think that, yes, a fair decision has been made by the Constitutional Court, which we all thank all the members of the Constitutional Court who participated in this decision. There was a professional debate on the proposed law that the foundations, which, by the way, can operate in a way that is completely independent of the founder, cannot be a question under the law, in which case if the founder transfers the founder's property to the foundation, then the foundations, having been able to operate independently of the founder, of all its decisions, and the members of the board of trustees cannot be called back, are not really this type of substantive control on the foundation's operation, after which the public money transferred to the foundations is considered to be public money, and in this sense the relevant provisions of the info law can be called into account. The Constitutional Court has taken a clear position on this issue. Accordingly, we have revised the bill, which, according to President Péterfalvi today, also complies with the relevant legislation in all respects. I think the principles that we have laid down in the submission of the bill have not changed. This was the only question and the obligation to communicate information on companies established by the central bank, which was also raised in the debates, here in Parliament and in the Commission. Well, ladies and gentlemen, with regard to the obligation to communicate information on the operation of the companies set up by the central bank, the Constitutional Court also made a clear position by examining the amendment tabled to the Postal Act, which it considered to be constitutional. Here I would refer back to my fellow Member, Mr Gábor Staudt, who does not understand that once the opposition has said that this is unconstitutional, then why we have submitted it and why we have adopted the bill. Dear fellow Member, In each case over the last few years, when you have declared some of your legislative proposals unconstitutional, if we hadn't submitted or withdrawn them, legislation could have slowed down considerably. Look, my fellow Members, at how much of the bill you consider unconstitutional has been rejected by the President of the Republic, how much has been controlled and how much has finally been declared unconstitutional by the Constitutional Court. [[Dr. Gábor Staudt: Fidesz Constitutional Judges! Solomon and the rest!]] You have made a fraction of your fragment, my fellow Members. Well, back to what was said, Gábor Staudt continues to hold it, as he said at the committee meeting that he considered it unconstitutional in this form of the bill. [[Dr. András Schiffer: That's right!]] Dear fellow Member, Go to the Constitutional Court. If Parliament has adopted this bill, you obviously have the opportunity to do so. [[Dr. András Schiffer: You got it!]] I would also like to answer Mr János Volner's opinion. The central bank law is wrong, says my fellow Member. Obviously, we don't agree on that either. I must say to the Member that we have taken into account the European Central Bank's directives when adopting the bill, where he specifically asked that this law strengthen the independence of the central bank on as many issues as possible. In that sense, I think the law itself is correct. If it were not, the European Central Bank itself would have blamed the Hungarian Government and the Hungarian Parliament. Mr András Schiffer's suggestions on what we think about the loss of the common currency. I've just given you an answer, Congressman. We did not agree during this debate in Parliament or in the committee. In that case, I must say, Congressman, you were right. The Constitutional Court has made a correct decision, as you have said, and the bill that has just been tabled complies with all the directives laid down by the Constitutional Court in its decision, in all its aspects and in all its elements. [[Dr. András Schiffer intervenes.]] We'll see about that, Congressman. I think that in this case this cannot be a question. However, to your suggestion, Mr President, that this property would have been overtaken, as Congressman Gábor Staudt said, that we wanted to convert it from public money into private money, you could have been free to crowd with these resources, my honourable fellow Member, Mr Group leader, you know exactly, as you yourself are a lawyer in this area, that the management of a foundation is not unlimited. There, too, must meet different requirements. The original bill would have qualified the central banks' foundations as a public benefit, which means that every year they should have made public a public benefit report, where all relevant information about their operation would otherwise have to be made public. The other, honourable Member, which you also know very well, is that the Foundations are being investigated and controlled by the Public Prosecutor's Office. [[Dr. András Schiffer: Who? Dr. Gábor Staudt: Your wife is in three foundations!]] If you have any problems and any suspicions about the operation of these foundations, you should press charges and have the question investigated. [[Dr. András Schiffer: Who has it? Dr. Gergely Bárándy: Whose wife is she?]] And we'll see what the result is. Finally, I would also like to respond to Mr Szabolcs Szabó's speech, who said that he is not at the rate of a salary increase, but is dissatisfied with why the President of the Central Bank is getting this or why he is getting paid at all, I am sorry and why he is not paying to go into the building of the Central Bank. I would also like to reply to Mr Sándor Burány and Mr Gergely Bárándy as socialist Members. This was mentioned today in Bertalan Tóth's speech before the agenda. Let's take a look at the time the two central bank presidents are re-emerged. At the time of András Simor, the monetary policy of the central bank failed. As the Secretary of State said, high inflation marked a period of - and let us not forget - taxation of the poor. Thus, the life conditions of the most difficult people in the line have been greatly impaired. Let us not forget that it was an unpredictable and uncertain economic policy that the government had done in the socialist period. Then, when the government of Fidesz came, which tried to pull the country out of bankruptcy with the Hungarian economic development model that you criticized a great deal, András Simor, instead of cooperating on these issues, moved all means until 3 March 2013, until his time in office, so that this economic policy could not be successful. It kept the central bank's core interest rate high so that it would be expensive to finance public deficits and public debt. Of course, it was a very good business for certain businesses, as they paid returns on Hungarian securities, we were forced to pay returns on Hungarian paper that brought extra benefit to foreign investment groups. I'm not even talking about keeping his own money abroad as an offshore knight, and the opposition's suggestion that [[Dr. András Schiffer: How many offshore knights do you have? What about the settlement policy?]] He thought it was perfectly normal as the President of the Central Bank. So I think that both the results of the Hungarian economic policy and the results of the central bank confirm that the path that György Matolcsy, as Minister of Economy, started as a member of the government, and that, by supporting the government's economic policy and, by the way, achieving the basic objectives of the central bank, which means financial stability, is to keep inflation low - let us not forget, ladies and gentlemen, inflation has been zero in Hungary for more than three years. This means that over the last three years, the purchasing power of Hungarian citizens' salaries and income has been constantly increasing, as salaries and wages have increased over the past years, as opposed to the period of socialist governments. I therefore think, once again, Mr President, and I thank my fellow Members for their patience, that the bill before you now meets the requirements of constitutionality in all respects. It will create a framework that will create a much more predictable environment for both financial stability and otherwise for the functioning of financial undertakings and a faster response at a later stage. With regard to the assessment of the incoming applications, the two. It also makes life easier for the financial market players and even the Hungarian people. I'm asking everyone to support the bill. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from the Fidesz ranks.]]
u2016-04-26-44	Thank you, Congressman Bánki Erik. Dear Parliament, The decisions will take place on this day, from 11 a.m. I'm recessing for 11 hours. (Sunning: 10.49 - 11.01.) President: Sándor LezsákMonitors: Ádám Mirkóczki and Dr. István Tiba)
u2016-04-26-45	I respectfully ask my fellow Members to take their seats and place the card. [[It's ringing.]] Dear Parliament, We are now continuing our work with the decisions on the agenda. [[Move.]] Again, I'd like you to take your seats and check if your cards have been placed in the voting machine. Dear Parliament, CXXXIX of 2013 on the Magyar Nemzeti Bank, adopted by the Parliament on the 1 March 2016 meeting, sent back by the President of the Republic on grounds of non-law. Decision on the proposal for a legislative amendment to the Act amending Law and the final vote. Text of the Act sent to the President of the Republic for signature T/9380/12. Letter from the President of the Republic T/9380/13. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. Dear Parliament, T/9380/15. and T/9380/16. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I would like to inform you that, under the provisions of the Rules of the House, it is not possible to maintain a proposal amending the decision and to request a separate vote. Dear Parliament, It is now the final vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament what his opinion is on the amendment of the Legislative Committee. First, we decide whether the National Assembly accepts T/9380/15 of the Legislative Committee. Amendment No 3 of the European Parliament and of the Council. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the amendment by 112 votes in favour, 36 against and 24 abstentions. This is the final vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts the 2013 CXXXIX on the National Bank of Hungary. a law on the amendment of the law has not been published with the amendments which have just been adopted. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament adopted the law by 112 votes in favour, 61 against and without abstentions. Next up is T/10099 on the amendment of certain health laws. Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. T/10099/12. T/10099/13. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I would like to inform you that the Rules of the House 48th. § 4 of the MSZP Group proposed the continuation of amendments Nos 5, 6 and 7 and Jobbik Group Nos 2, 3 and 8. That's what we're gonna decide first. Amendment 5 is proposed by Lajos Korózs and his fellow Members. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains the proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 40 votes in favour, 112 against and 22 abstentions. Amendment 6 is proposed by Márta Demeter and his fellow Members. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains the proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 60 votes in favour, 113 against and 2 abstentions. Amendment 7 is proposed by Ildikó Bangóné Borbély and his fellow Members. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains the proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] The Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 62 votes in favour, 113 against and without abstentions. Amendment No 2 was tabled by György László Lukács and Lajos Rig. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains the proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] The Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 58 votes in favour, 116 against and 1 abstention. Amendment 3 is proposed by György László Lukács and Lajos Rig. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains the proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 58 votes in favour, 115 against and 1 abstention. Amendment 8 is proposed by György László Lukács and his fellow Members. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains the proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 52 votes in favour, 119 against and 2 abstentions. As the Parliament has not maintained an amendment, we are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether the Legislative Committee accepts T/10099/12. A summary of the amendment proposed by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the summary amendment by 141 votes in favour, 32 against, with 1 abstention. [[11.10]] It is now the final vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts T/10099/15. a single proposal with a serial number. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the single proposal by 132 votes in favour, 40 against and one abstention. Dear Parliament, A series of amendments to the Act on the lifting of certain administrative obligations in the framework of the reduction of administrative bureaucracy will be set out in T/10096. Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. T/10096/6. T/10096/7. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. We are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether the Legislative Committee accepts T/10096/6. A summary of the amendment proposed by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] Does Congresswoman Catherine Cöbör have a good plane? [[Katalin Cöbör nods.]] Good. I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the summary amendment by 116 votes in favour, 35 against and 22 abstentions. It is now the final vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts T/10096/8. A single proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the single proposal by 134 votes in favour, 34 against, with 6 abstentions. Dear Parliament, The 1997 LXXVIII on the shaping and protection of the built environment follows. T/9369. Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. T/9369/6. T/9369/7. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. We are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I would like to inform you that the Rules of the House 48th. Pursuant to paragraph 2 of Section 2 of the Rules of Procedure, the Fidesz Group initiated a separate vote on point 2 of the summary amendment proposal. First, we will decide on this and then we will decide on further points in the summary amendment proposal. In point 2 of the summary amendment proposal, the committee shall draw up a legislative proposal. It proposes an amendment to the section of the Fidesz Group, and we will therefore decide on this at the request of the Fidesz Group. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts point 2 of the summarised amendment. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the amendment point by 149 votes in favour, no votes against, with 25 abstentions. We are now deciding on further points in the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether the Legislative Committee accepts T/9369/6. The additional points of the proposed amendment are set out in the table below. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament accepted the remaining points of the summary amendment by 136 votes in favour, 32 against and 8 abstentions. Dear Parliament, It is now the final vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts T/9369/9. A single proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the single proposal by 136 votes in favour, 32 against and 8 abstentions. Dear Parliament, The 2012 CLIX on postal services follows. T/9785. Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. T/9785/8. T/9785/9 and T/9785/9. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I would like to inform you that the Rules of the House 48th. § 4 of the MSZP Group proposed the continuation of amendments Nos 3 and 4. That's what we're gonna decide first. Amendment No 3 is proposed by Bertalan Tóth. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains the proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 65 votes in favour, 110 against and 1 abstention. Amendment 4 is proposed by Bertalan Tóth. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains the proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 37 votes in favour, 113 against and 26 abstentions. As the Parliament has not maintained an amendment, we are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether the Legislative Committee accepts T/9785/8. A summary of the amendment proposed by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the summary amendment by 111 votes in favour, 36 against and 27 abstentions. Dear Parliament, It is now the final vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts T/9785/11. A single proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the single proposal by 113 votes to 41, with 23 abstentions. It follows that T/10092 on the status of State Project Evaluation and on the amendment of certain related laws. Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. T/10092/7. T/10092/8. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. We are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether the Legislative Committee accepts T/10092/7. A summary of the amendment proposed by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the summary amendment by 113 votes in favour, 36 against and 28 abstentions. [[11.20]] It is now the final vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts T/10092/9. A single proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the single proposal by 112 votes in favour, 37 against and 28 abstentions. Next up is T/9782 on judicial experts. Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. T/9782/34. T/9782/35. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I would like to inform you that the Rules of the House 48th. § 4 of the LMP Group proposed the continuation of amendments Nos 7, 8 and 9 and Jobbik's groups Nos 5, 11 and 20. That's what we're gonna decide first. Amendment 7 is the motion of András Schiffer. The adoption of this includes Amendment 20. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains the proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 60 votes in favour, 116 against and without abstention. Amendment 20 is proposed by Gábor Staudt. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains the proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 59 votes in favour, 118 against and without abstentions. Amendment 8 is the motion of András Schiffer. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains the proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 64 votes in favour, 113 against and without abstention. Amendment 9 is the motion of András Schiffer. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains the proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 65 votes in favour, 112 votes against and no abstentions. Amendment 5 is proposed by Mr Staudt Gábor. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains the proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 29 votes in favour, 146 against and 2 abstentions. Amendment 11 was proposed by Gábor Staudt. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains the proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 28 votes in favour, 117 against and 31 abstentions. As the Parliament has not maintained an amendment, we are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether the Legislative Committee accepts T/9782/34. A summary of the amendment proposed by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the summary amendment by 113 votes in favour, 40 against and 23 abstentions. Dear Parliament, It is now the final vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts T/9782/38. A single proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the single proposal by 111 votes in favour, 39 against and 27 abstentions. Dear Parliament, Next up is T/9786 on defence and security procurement. Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. T/9786/9. T/9786/10. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I would like to inform you that the Rules of the House 48th. Under paragraph 4 of Section 4, Jobbik's group proposed the continuation of amendments 4 and 5, so we first decide on them. Amendment 4 is proposed by István Apáti. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains the proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 58 votes in favour, 117 against and 1 abstention. Amendment 5 is proposed by István Apáti. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains the proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 60 votes in favour, 117 against and without abstention. As the Parliament has not maintained an amendment, we are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether the Legislative Committee accepts T/9786/9. A summary of the amendment proposed by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the summary amendment by 110 votes to 43, with 23 abstentions. Dear Parliament, It is now the final vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts T/9786/12. A single proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the single proposal by 112 votes in favour, 64 against and without abstentions. Dear Parliament, Thank you for your work so far. We've reached the end of the decisions. I'm ordering a two-minute technical break. Thank you very much. [[It's a short break.]] [[In the notary seat Dr. István Tiba will be replaced by József Attila Móring.]] [[11.30]] With all due respect to my fellow Members who do not participate in the work now, leave the Chamber. We'll be right back. [[It's ringing.]] With all due respect to my fellow Members, [[Noise, move. It's ringing.]] Those who do not take part in the work now, leave the meeting room or take a seat. Dear Parliament, We'll get back to work. V/9837 on the present and future of Hungarian health. Policy debate launched by Jobbik, the MSZP, the LMP Group and independent representatives. [[It's constant noise.]] Please take your seats, fellow Members, or leave the Chamber. [[A moment's pause. Szabó Timea in a black T-shirt, in the front, Mária Sándor and his associates, on the back of the back, with the Hungarian health sign, Zoltán Balog will receive a white cape.]] Opinion on the initiative of the political debate V/9837 The information document of the State Audit Office is available on the network. Dear Parliament, I would ask Mr Attila Móring to explain the course of the political debate.
u2016-04-26-46	Dear Parliament, First, a statement from the representative of the Government will be made for a total period of 40 minutes. The speakers of each political group will then be able to speak in 15-15 minutes, and then the first independent Member will be able to speak. The remaining time frame will then be open to further speeches by its representatives. Finally, the representative of the Government will respond in 20 minutes to what has been said in the debate.
u2016-04-26-47	Thank you very much, Mr. Notary. Dear Parliament, Allow me to remind you of the main rules of the time-frame debate. The speaking time of the member of the Government who spoke during the debate is expected to be in the time of the pro-government factions. In the meantime, two-minute speeches, with the exception of responding to personal concerns, should be included in the timeframe. Point of order speeches are not included in the time frame. On the meeting room information board, interested parties can monitor the use of time frames. Before we begin the debate, I would like to ask Mr Ádám Mirkóczki to explain the time frame.
u2016-04-26-48	Dear Parliament, I declare that the Fidesz, MSZP, Jobbik and KDNP groups and five independent Members have initiated a doubling of the timeframe available to them, so the time frame is divided as follows. The Fidesz Group has 164 minutes, 92 minutes for the MSZP Group, 76 minutes for the KDNP Group, 82 minutes for the Jobbik Group, 24 minutes for the LMP Group and 18 minutes for the independent Members. The time limits provided for the factions include the 15-15 minutes lead speakers.
u2016-04-26-49	Thank you, Mr. Notary. Dear Parliament, First, the government's debate will take place in a 40-minute timeframe. First, I give the floor to Minister Zoltán Balog. You have the floor, Minister.
u2016-04-26-50	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear House, Dear Guests! If I can start with the future immediately, then our plans for this year and next year are to renew Budapest's health care, so that the paradoxical situation, which is partly due to the use of EU funds, is that in disadvantaged and non-competitive regions we have been able to primarily develop hospitals, hospital care, and not in Budapest, we remedy this imbalance. So one of the major programmes of the coming years is the renewal of health care in Budapest. I will also say a few specific words about this. The other big programme that should start, I trust, already in 2016, is the multi-annual wage development programme that we started in 2012, and we definitely want to continue. For this in the next year's budget, you will soon learn about it, a sum of HUF 100 billion will be available. We would like to start the next phase of this wage development programme in 2016. But yet, before we talk about what the current situation looks like and what we are planning to do in the future, unfortunately, we have to tell you where we started, where we started, where we came from in 2010. All the more so, because your personal responsibilities are also present in the situation that occurred by 2010, here in this room. It is sad to experience and not sadly, partly understandable that they do not have professional suggestions. We have seen this as an example in the past few days, apart from chastity and mood, and the representatives of the previous government have no other skills. Because if I bring that number here, the 650 billion forints that you have withdrawn from health care until 2010 in the last eight years, that has certainly resulted in thousands of health workers on the streets. Not to mention how they tried to deal with patients. Because the concept you've been trying to achieve by 2010 is a failure. Think about the attempt to introduce paid health care, which, of course, was denied in the 2006 election campaign. Then, in the referendum, those who saw the dangers posed by this, by seeking private administration of the health insurance system and hospitals. The withdrawal mentioned above was an obvious sign of this. Then the process of indebting and depreciating hospitals also got to the point that in 2010 we had to take over hospitals with HUF 130 billion in debt. 80 percent of their assets were in need of replacement in the hospital care system. On the brink of collapse, there was an ambulance service itself. If I think that in two years they have failed to buy an ambulance between 2008 and 2010, this symbolically indicates that the biggest innovation in hospital development was the setting up of visit fee vending machines, not to mention the introduction of hospital safes. It would be worth going to those who started it in hospitals at the time, and to see where it came from, what fate these otherwise heavy - million - investment hospital safes are, how they are used or not used. [[Zoltán Gőgös: It would also be worth it to Minister.]] [[11.40]] One of the important areas of functioning structures was the supply of medicines and the role of pharmacists in this system. Maybe you'll remember that if you don't, I'd like to recite that about 600 small horses have gone bankrupt during left-wing liberal government. The Act on Pharmacy has damaged the safety of the supply of pharmaceuticals, and the maintenance of small pharmacy should not only be a health policy goal, but also a national policy goal, since the system of small-scale medicinal products is a major contributor to the living area. [[Interview from the ranks of the MSZP: The stadium!]] Then let's talk about the part of this, which has been constantly shaken not only by suspicion of corruption but also by its fact. Think of the judgments that your politicians, former socialist Members of Parliament, had to suffer: it was a result of imprisonment; I suppose it is not worth arguing about. So the last six years, from 2010 until today, not quite six years, five and a half years, have given us the task, hard work, to increase the performance of the economy, as well as the situation of the municipalities and maintainers who have been kept in hospitals - primarily county municipalities and urban hospitals - that we had to consolidate the debt of about HUF 1200 billion by the municipalities. The maintenance system was inoperative, in addition to a negative economic trend, where there was a decrease in Hungary's economic performance rather than growth. So what we had to do was, on the one hand, the issue of hospital development and, on the other, the launch of urgent wage development, because the lack of conditions and the lack of adequate salary caused the labour force, the emigration from health care, to a large extent. [[Zoltán Grimlock: It's okay now.]] If we are talking about the supply of medicines, perhaps one of the most important results at the beginning of the second Orbán government was that, after a very tough series of negotiations with pharmaceutical manufacturers and distributors, we managed to reduce the pharmaceutical budget by about HUF 100 billion without a price increase, and I can even say - that is certainly true by 2015 - that the fee for 390 products has decreased significantly. Today, we can say that if I look at the average reduction in drug prices, it is about 10 percent lower in the fee for medicines, which, I think, is a pretty important result. If we are talking about hospital development, a 500 billion-dollar development programme has been launched, which has to be recognised between 2010 and 2015, and the planning of these developments has been limited to the period of the previous government. Here, however, we must also say that the redesign of these types has consumed enough energy to make them real hospital development. 655 health-related development projects have been carried out in recent years, between 2010 and 2015. The funds spent on health development, as I mentioned, were largely allocated to rural hospitals, of which HUF 100 billion was spent on asset acquisition, and the remainder on other infrastructure development in hospitals. The highest development was also in Bács-Kiskun County. We also had to move very quickly on wages, so when we came to the fact that the performance of the economy, the budget had made this possible, in 2012 and 2013, there were about 95 thousand healthcare workers on two steps, with a wage increase of more than HUF 75 billion. In two years, we can say that with the wage increase in 2012-13, the gross earnings of people employed in hospitals and clinics increased by 27 percent on average, so we also tried to increase the salaries of doctors, specialists and dentists. They received a single, fixed amount increase of HUF 65 800 gross over these two years, based on the calculations. Depending on the payment classes, this meant a salary increase of between HUF 1 000 and HUF 25,000, while other graduates received a salary increase of HUF 31 400 per month. The sector's wage increase was later linked to the release of mobile wages, with more than HUF 5 billion available to implement the measure last year. Thus, the income of the professionals concerned could increase between HUF 5 and HUF 15 000 gross on average, while the doctors concerned increased by HUF 20-25 thousand, with an additional HUF 12.8 billion available. Avoiding the chance of criticism, though I suppose I will not get away with it being a production report, I would like to say that, of course, these numbers are important, but what is behind it is the sacrifice of the people we have tried to reward in this way. One of the most important problems, and we are not doing well at all, even if the number of specialists who have entered our residency program has increased by 15 percent in the last year alone. However, the support of the residency program with five types of scholarships, the net HUF 100, 150 thousand and HUF 200,000 monthly income increase for those in the residency program, I think it is a very significant step, which the government has provided for HUF 5 billion in the last year. This scholarship program involved 3,400 young doctors, and has been used by so many. This is a significant thing, which means that the number of requests for foreign employment and for foreign employment has decreased by 30 percent in the last year. If that is not enough, I think it indicates that we have made a very significant progress in the residency programme. This is not only a question of money, it also requires strengthening and reforming medical training itself, which I trust will take place in the coming years, because if I look at foreign employment, it can, of course, be reduced by a pay cut, but we must admit that we will not be able to pay Western European wages for a long time. Thus, improving the working conditions of doctors, strengthening family-based benefits and benefits, these offers will again be able to make a significant contribution to reducing working abroad in this area. We can also think that if we increase the number of doctors trained in Hungary, the university capacity related to this, then obviously more of a larger number of graduates will stay in Hungary or return after foreign experiences. Reducing the waiting list by half is also a very important result, to which we also spent over 10 billion HUF 12.2 billion. And if we may allow one more look back: the government before 2010 did not undertake to make the waiting lists at all. So when there are people complaining about the length of waiting lists and criticizing us in this regard, let me report that we have carried out a survey at all to see how health performance is in terms of needs. First, we had to set up the waiting lists that we had done, and since then we have gradually reduced the number of people waiting for these surgeries and treatments. The most important message of this government cycle is to strengthen basic care in addition to hospital development in Budapest. If I think about it, and we all have a serious responsibility to have 7.1 beds for thousands of people in Hungary today, and the EU average is 5.2, I can say that reducing the time spent in the hospital is a very important task here. Or if I make a comparison with England right now that the provision of one-day surgery in Hungary affects 8 percent of the benefits, while in England, for example, 50 percent, indicates our task of spending as little time in the hospital as possible. To do this, basic care, general health care, day-to-day care and outpatient care will have to be strengthened, and we will focus on these after major hospital developments in the coming years. [[11.50]] The role of the gatekeeper of the general doctor, which we often talk about: the amount of the basic supply register by 2016 is from 80 billion compared to 2010, and if the next planned HUF 10 billion arrives, it will rise to 117 billion, from which we would like to give the patrons and the rural dentists 2 and another HUF 2 billion. In the case of major developments in the European Union, we were thinking primarily of public health, which is also linked to the basic supply, which will have HUF 32 billion available from the operational programme for human resources development in the coming years. I mentioned in the introduction that it is the health development in Budapest that we will soon have a decision to make, and the government will also make a decision. Perhaps I can present the dilemma or the decision point in which the government will have to decide. The option is to build a large new hospital as a greenfield investment, the other professional proposal, which is in favour of those who take a stand... [[István Tukacs: You are talking about opportunity and you have already decided! Noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] Congressman, if you think so, you'll come here and tell me for me. [[István Tukacs: I will do it, Minister! He's just talking about opportunity. Intercoms. The president's ringing the bell.]] It will only be necessary to achieve the result of the elections so that it can be held accountable here. I'm asking you not to interrupt the professional report. [[Noise, interruptions in the benches of MSZP. Zoltán Gőgös: This is a political talk, not a professional report! An uproar in the pro-government benches. The president's ringing several times.]] And then he'll give you his opinion. Thank you very much. I would also like to thank the excellent health professionals who have come from the field of agriculture for their certification. [[Deterioration in the pro-government benches. Zoltán Gőgös: I was there, Minister, at least as much as you, but I went and looked. That's the difference.]] So the health development in Budapest... [[Zoltán Haughty interrupts. Noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] I'll wait for them to calm down.
u2016-04-26-51	Minister, we're listening.
u2016-04-26-52	The difference is, I'll wait and you can't wait. That's right, it is. So we are talking about health development in Budapest. The three-four focus development, which expands the capacity of the current hospitals, renews it, where South Pest, the development of the János Hospital and another development may be involved, is one of the decisions that we need to make to make our vote in addition. This is not a financial issue, it is not a financial issue, because we are planning the tens of billions we have promised for this development, but a professional decision in which we would naturally like to involve those who have something to say about it. On one side there is a large new greenfield investment and on the other side there is a focus development covering three or four areas. And then let's talk about what the current case is, the wage increase, the wage development. Here I have to say, without any chance of doing that, by the way, that the negotiating partners who are here are both the Hospital Association, the Medical Chamber and the various trade unions of health professionals... - I must say that the negotiations that have been going on for several years now are, however, responsible and forward-looking. I hope that you will also appreciate the fact that we have reached the point where we hope that wage development will start in 2016. Here at the next stage of the negotiations, we will be able to decide that the multi-annual wage development, at the end of which, compared to today's wage level - I am talking about health professionals - should be a 50 percent wage development, can start this year. As I said, we need to decide whether we should think about four or three years of development. We'll discuss this at the negotiating table. Thank you for your constructive attitude. And then the other significant area, which is partly due to what I mentioned, is that in residency we gave the specialists a wage increase, a net - let's say - scholarship depending on the area in which they train themselves, which means a net extra fee of HUF 100-150 or HUF 200,000 per month. From this point on, if someone gets out of residency, it means that, by the way, if we stay on the current wage level, it will be less. So it is also quite obvious that not only for their wages, but also for other doctors' wages, we will need to add this HUF 151 thousand net. In what detail and in what construction, we will also have to discuss this in the wage negotiations with those responsible for this area. I continue to ask you to discuss these matters at the negotiating table, if necessary, at the round table, and let me express my partial thanks not only to the negotiators, but also to everyone who is otherwise self-sacrificing in health care. The mood that, by the way, contrasts with each other the self-sacrificing work and the necessary improvements, or is being played out against each other, I do not think that it is in the interests of health care workers. We are far from satisfied with what we have achieved in this matter, but I do want the responsible actors to believe that the political scandal in this matter will lead to nothing. I hope you can see the constructive process that we have launched in the area of further development and renewal of public education, which has produced concrete results not only in terms of numbers, not only in terms of funding, but also in terms of better regulation. In this respect, I consider the work of the round table for public education to be exemplary. It shows where results can be achieved, and where else is nothing when we try to address important professional policy issues and serious problems that really exist on one side, and on the other, any dissatisfaction and problems, we try to construct this into some kind of anti-government mood or somehow to build up which way it leads forward and towards a solution. I trust the objective debate, because only the objective debate serves the interests of patients and healthy Hungarian people. Thank you for your attention, and I ask Mr President to allow the other part of the exposé to be presented by the competent State Secretary. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-04-26-53	Thank you very much, Minister Balog. I give the floor to Secretary of State Zoltán Ónodi-Szűcs.
u2016-04-26-54	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Dear Guests! We've just heard a summary of what's happened in health care over the past six years. I'd like to talk to you about the system of tasks I've undertaken as Secretary of State for Health, which is obviously not a new program, but the process of my predecessor. I have talked about this many times in this House, too, but I would like to reiterate once again that we would like to undertake five very specific programmes. The reason why we are so specific is because we want transparency to be true of us, we want to achieve transparency not only in the whole area of health care, but also in our work. We would like this to be accountable to the opposition. These five points - perhaps a small number, but I think they will be able to cause a huge paradigm shift in health care. The first such point - it has already been mentioned - is a rethink of the provision in the capital; I would like to stress that we would first like to plan what the population in the agglomeration will need for the next 5-10 years and then build. In the last 25 years, it has been rare when concrete was poured not for the first time, but vice versa: it was designed for the first time, and then they started building. Whatever the end of the government decision, we will certainly think about the need to imagine every development as part of a medium-term concept. That's an attitude we won't be able to overlook. The second point I would like to talk about is the reshaping of the governance of the institutions. Perhaps some of you know that I may be here because I wrote a study in 2011, examining whether it is the needs of the population or the interests of the institutional system that govern health care today. We find that often the interests of the institutional system influence decisions that would otherwise be considered professional. This is partly because the institutional system is primarily interested in its own maintenance and not in the care of patients. We would like to see a governance system in which the responsibility of the population of an area would be given to a single Gremium or institutional system, and the institutions under it should serve them. [[12.00]] I would like to bring the issue of the minimum regulation back to the House, because many people often call it the maximum regulation, because some professional lobbying has achieved that this system of regulations today has a content that can, let's just say, sometimes also satisfy the needs of clinics. At the same time, it does not include those important cautelas that should be able to provide care in Hungary today only those whose practice and experience are available in the form of supply they are currently performing. What we want is not to soften the minimum regulation, but also to incorporate all the competences in this regulation. I stress that patient safety leads every decision you make to your secretary of state. Yesterday was the day I had the pleasure of discussing the issue of the social security system. I would like to make it clear once again in this House: Hungary is the only country within the OECD, where in 13 years the time spent in the hospital has not decreased, but has increased. This is because Hungary is the only country where the chronic form of care is provided by the healthcare system and not social. We simply cannot do that now that we are getting increased funding from the budget, this resource is being squandered for non-health purposes. We want this form of supply to be moved to the place where it otherwise operates in Europe. The social care system must operate the care activities which will otherwise place an even greater burden on us in the coming years. Nearly a third of the age group over 65 and nearly half of those over 72 live alone in their home. It is also possible that his relatives may be 100 - 150 km away from home. It is very difficult to expect the family to care for their relatives. We would like to see a capacity built up in Hungary that will serve this demand. But I must point out that this does not have to be done within hospitals, because then we will squander the extra money as well. [[President Tamás Sneider, Vice-President of the National Assembly.]] Let's get back to basic care for a second. Every previous government, regardless of party status, has always put on its flag the coat of arms of public health. We will now undertake, in the next two years at least, to renew the institutional system related to basic supply from EKOP resources. Today we find that in addition to basic care, many people work with different attitudes and different direction. We would like to put these into a single concept, and to do so we would like to create a basic public health care. We would like to spend more than HUF 20 billion for this purpose in the next two years. I think that this may not be enough, but it will certainly be enough to start this change and not be able to reverse it. In short, that is all I wanted to say about the five points, and obviously I will be available in the debate if you ask professional questions and not political questions. I would like to point out once again that all five points are cases that wish to change paradigms. We may have been too brave or too bold, but our courage can be verified by the fact that the E Fund has increased in the last six years, and now we are preparing for an even bigger step, because next year we can expect more than 100 billion in resources. I think it might give us the courage to deal with these matters. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause from the pro-government ranks.]]
u2016-04-26-55	Dear Parliament, Welcome. It is now time for the speeches by its representatives. In the first round, speeches will be held by the lead speaker within a 15-15-minute timeframe. The Fidesz Group indicated that two speakers presented the group's position. First, I give the floor to Congresswoman Gabriella Selmeczi.
u2016-04-26-56	Mr President, Thank you very much for the floor. Dear Minister, Mr. Secretary of State! Ladies and gentlemen, I also welcome the representatives of healthcare professional organisations on behalf of the Fidesz-KDNP fraction. I wish you a very fair and good debate today. Ladies and gentlemen, Socialists would make healthcare pay again, sell hospitals, give big money to pharmacies. Ferenc Gyurcsány, liberals and socialists see only business in health care, for them the sick man is just business. [[Ferenc Gyurcsány: Kiss your hand! You're a miracle!]] Ladies and gentlemen, Visit fee, daily hospital fee, rising drug prices, disruption of drug supply, closure of hospitals - this would be what Hungary would expect if the socialists and their associates could do [[Bangóné Borbély Ildikó: 2016, good situational analysis!]] as we experienced before 2010. Ferenc Gyurcsány would do the same thing he did once as Prime Minister: protect foreign investors to whom he would play the Hungarian health care. Nothing has changed, and the most terrible thing is that the opposition is still playing this from Ferenc Gyurcsány's sheet music. [[Dr. István Józsa: Fidesz plays this game!]] There have been two different approaches to health care since the change of regime, two different approaches to politicians. One who only sees business in it. [[Intercom from the Fidesz benches.]] He went out, that's right. They're the patients' tax collectors. [[Bangóné Borbély Ildikó: Where is the 3000 billion private pension fund money?]] We are aware of the incomes of healthcare workers and healthcare workers, but we also acknowledge their sacrifice and increased responsibility for providing healthcare. So far, we have spent 300 billion forints in health care to pay the workers. In 2011, higher-risk workers from healthcare providers received wage increases. The measure affected 68 100 people. In 2012 and in 13 there were two steps around. We managed to raise the salary of 95,000 employees. We are aware of the responsibility we have for start-up doctors, both to them and to patients, as the current university students, residents, will be the doctors of the future. One of the most significant measures taken to keep residents at home was the launch of the so-called residency support programme from 2011. This programme, as Minister said, contains various types of scholarships. The scholarships have so far been used by nearly 3,400 young doctors, and the income of a young specialist can be up to HUF 405 thousand gross, which is HUF 270 thousand net. The government has spent HUF 5 billion on this support programme since 2011. Allow me to subpoena one of the OECD's studies here: the number of graduates of medical education has increased to the greatest extent in Hungary among the OECD countries studied. It is an important result that doctors have been able to reverse the previous trend. Today, fewer doctors want to work abroad than in 2010. But we still have a lot to do to stop the medical emigration. In 2010, we were left not only with the budget, but also with the pension fund, with a huge shortage of socialists, but also with the whole health care system in ruins. The Minister also mentioned this huge debt of some HUF 130 billion. Consolidation, i.e. the debt of hospitals, has been settled in several rounds practically every year. The ruins are still being cleaned up. I would like to highlight the waiting list where we have succeeded in achieving results. [[Zoltán Grimlock: Engagement. He's scheduled to be on the waiting list.]] The Minister said that, on the one hand, there was no regular record of waiting lists in 2010 and, on the other hand, let me say that as a result of the introduction of the system, the number of patients on the waiting list has been reduced by half. Nationally anticipated developments in health care have been launched, mostly in the countryside. So far, we have supported these developments by HUF 500 billion. In particular, the hospital infrastructure was renewed from more than HUF 322 billion, we were able to spend HUF 104 billion on the assets, and in the primary care we also had money to modernise the clinics. The vast majority of these investments have been completed. We have also been able to develop in the area of emergency care, and we have managed to spend almost 11 billion HUF of development aid here. We acquired 221 new ambulances, so the development of the rescue car park was quite significant. Of course, we still have things to do here. [[12.10]] I would like to highlight the improvement in infant mortality and emergency care. Special attention was given to child emergency services in the hospital during this planning period, including the renewal of preterm centres. We heard this yesterday, Minister. He announced that emergency child care will be developed from HUF 10 billion. Fidesz supports this, because there has been a lot of work to be done here and there will be more to be done in this area. Allow me to point out - my fellow Members will talk about it - that infant mortality has decreased by 20 percent within two years. This means that premature mortality has decreased by 20 percent in Hungary. Last year, 75 more babies were saved than in previous years. Developments are involved in this, since the PIC centers, perinatal intensive centers, where premature babies are treated, nursed, protected, their lives, health, have been very developed, and this is why we have achieved such a significant result in the rescue of premature babies. Zoltán Ónodi-Szűcs, State Secretary for Health, has identified five very important areas in his programme. We support them. Allow me to highlight the strengthening of the basic supply. Compared to 2009, the government already provided 40 percent more money to support the basic supply in 2015. It's a very serious amount. Nevertheless, in some regions of Hungary, there is a very serious problem with the unfilled GP practice. Unfortunately, I have to say, it's not always possible to solve it with money. But in 2014 and 2015 we managed to fill such unfilled GP practices in a tendering system, in 2014 we managed to contract with 38 GPs, and last year 64 people concluded the contract for the support. So now we're in, so we can move forward. Public health has always been important to Fidesz. My fellow Members will discuss in detail how much progress we have made in reducing smoking, in reforming nutrition - I hope - in daily physical education, and I hope that we will continue with the public health programmes. I would like to highlight from the positive results that a government decision requires that, in the event of clinical suspicion of malignant cancer, a CT, MRI, or imaging diagnostic service provider, should carry out the necessary examination within 14 days of the date of issue of the referral, in order to ensure that the diagnosis is available. [[Dr. István Józsa: Kaposvár!]] In a country where the number of cancers is so high, I consider this to be a very important step forward and to be supported. I could talk a lot about medicine. I could talk a lot about the fact that before 2010, it was typical that when a sick man entered the pharmacy, he faced rising fees. [[István Tukacs: Even now!]] After 2010 we managed to reduce the price of more than 1,500 medicinal products between 2012 and 14 [[Dr. István Józsa: Support has decreased! István Tukacs: Don't tell me!]] This trend continued until 2016, i.e. until now, the fee for the reimbursement of 760 medicines has been reduced. Let me give you an example. In 2010, one of the most commonly used, state-of-the-art antihypertensive medicines - I don't know if anyone has been affected - had to pay 3000 forints a month, and today only 600 forints is paid for. Ladies and gentlemen, The stakes are unchanged. In Hungarian health care, the ruins are still being cleaned up, the development and the wage management are underway. There's still a lot to do. [[István Tukacs: More and more ruins!]] The Fidesz Group also welcomes the budget presented on this debate day, and we welcome the fact that healthcare is one of the winners of this budget. We welcome the additional HUF 100 billion in healthcare next year. [[Zoltán Grimlock: 200 billion in debt!]] Thank you for listening. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2016-04-26-57	Mr István Németh Szilárd will now have the floor in the remaining timeframe.
u2016-04-26-58	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, We have heard from the ministerial expo and my fellow Member that today everything that is worrying about health, and we can say this without exaggerating, everything that is bad and practically unacceptable to us, is the legacy of those who, as governors, are now just left-wing opposition [[Zoltán Grimlock: You've been ruling for six years! Rushing from the benches of the MSZP.]] the damage to the Gyurcsány, Bajnai governments. [[István Tukacs: Don't be joking! This is so stupid.]] I think that this correlation is quite clear and clear. Then why did the comrades call this debate with the strong support of Jobbik? [[Dr. István Józsa: Because there is trouble!]] Nothing but the restoration of the world before 2010. By the way, they have the same goal as in the field of public education and public education, because there has also been proven and all the subsequent public education jammbos that practically politicians have the whole system in their hands. [[Dr. István Józsa: You are immortal!]] All they need is political confrontation, hope for government failure. [[Dr. István Józsa: That's right!]] The same motivation here in health care [[Dr. István Józsa: You need it!]] And when we have the debate on the social situation, the social area, we will see the same thing. It was quite surprising to me, by the way, and I find the former Prime Minister brave enough to come in here today and even give his opinion here. In practice, I would only be able to appreciate this better if it did the same in the debate on dual citizenship. It is clear that the school, the hospital, the children, the patients, the doctors, the nurses or the teachers need nothing more than a biodecoration. The same situation as in the field of public education [[Zoltán Pride: Shame on you!]] Push before you people who have real problems, have real problems in many areas of life [[Dr. István Józsa: Unlike Fidesz, Fidesz has no problems!]] In health care and education, but it's undoubtedly for everyone. All of this, however, cannot be resolved with troubles, demonstrations such as yesterday in the Castle of Buda. Mária Sándor, iconic figure of this whole system, participated yesterday in the demonstration organized by the Democratic Coalition [[Dr. István Józsa: This is the place of advertising!]] and there he spoke with Ferenc Gyurcsány and Agnes Valai. At this demonstration, the weakest inscription was Orbán on the national lamp iron. What does that have to do with health care? [[Dr. István Józsa: He told me!]] What does this game have to do with health care? What's that game got to do with health care, education, what they were trying to force on schools in the field of education? Where, by the way, four out of five teachers didn't hear what they were saying, they didn't participate in the strike. [[Dr. István Józsa: Because they were threatened!]] Or the protests. But by the way, I think that this is not just a left-wing problem, but this is from the far left to the far right. So I'm curious to know when Mary Alexander, the nurse in black, will show up at a good-looking peewee-wee. [[Gábor Vona: It's already happened!]] Or at a cruise with a crane feather. Well, it's clear what they want now - but what did they want between 2006 and 2010? It's pretty clear from what we've heard: nothing but stealing this sector. So when you make it clear that we need paid health care, hospital allowances, visitation fees, box fees, I think we can't talk about anything else. Nothing else can be said when it is made clear that privatisation is needed, everything must be sold and companies brought in who then destroyed rural hospitals or heard the bankruptcy of the 600 pharmacy. [[Dr. István Józsa: What about the Trafiks?]] So I think it is quite clear to everyone what risks we can return to the world before 2010. But let's talk about closing hospitals. This Csepelen meant that the Weiss Manfred Hospital, which would be a hundred years old this year, was founded by a great capitalist and handed over to the people as a public hospital in 1924, was virtually eliminated with a single pen stroke by a general meeting decision, colluding with the local government at that time. Gábor Demszky, who was most responsible at this assembly, fell asleep. That's what the press was talking about. And those who are extremely union-friendly today were not allowed to speak to the MEP of the EDDSZ in Budapest. [[Lajos Korózs: What?]] He had to beg in several circles to speak, and for the sake of the hospital, he could tell you yours. [[12.20]] I think that we can only make progress in the area of health, if - this is now clearly seen in the field of public education - we initiate a dialogue, a professional exchange of views. And for that, I would like to thank everyone who chooses the negotiating table, either in the field of public education or in the field of health. Thank you so much for listening. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2016-04-26-59	The MSZP group also indicated that two speakers presented the group's position. First, I give the floor to Congressman József Tobias.
u2016-04-26-60	Mr. President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Ladies and gentlemen of the Committee of Interests, You're always in the dilemma that what you're hearing is such a symptom, a symptom of hallucination, and you have to keep saying it until you believe it, or we're really having a debate about different aspects, but let's highlight what the government should be doing, or what we see differently, and use other tools and methods. In 2016, everyone in Hungary should be able to heal according to their condition, quickly and effectively, regardless of how much money they have and in which part of the country they live. We say that we need to provide a service where no one gets sick because they are poor and no one gets poor because they are sick. We see that in recent years more and more money is being pumped out of the sector; partly for demographic and partly technological reasons, healthcare will cost more in Hungary than in the world. A completely opposite process has been generated in recent years. On this basis, the question should be asked whether this is dilettantism, or whether Szilárd Németh also controls this area, or whether it is just the malice that the government is doing, because it should not reduce expenditure, because it is clear that Hungary will have inaccessible consequences in the long term and will pay a huge price. What's going on in health care today is an ongoing life-threatening situation for those who get into care. The government, therefore, which I have listened to from Minister, was also just a political speech, unreasonable and unjust. Patients sent from hospital to hospital are dying in Hungary today, because although ambulances arrive quickly and try to do everything for the patient, they cannot receive them in hospitals where they should be sent because of lack of beds or specialists. There are currently 2,000 unfilled medical jobs in our country. According to the Residents' and Professionals' Union, public expenditure on health cannot guarantee fundamental rights to physical and mental health. In their view, within ten years, if the current trend continues, three thousand GPs will be absent from the system, so half of the country will not have a basic supplier. There is chaos in the sector, uncertainty is immeasurable, and the vulnerability of workers and patients is increasing. Changes must be started immediately; health workers, regardless of the values they represent beyond their professional vocation, should be seated at a table and, in cooperation, immediate solutions should be put in place by the government. It is not necessary to reduce resources, but to expand in any strange way beyond the scale of economic growth, as they have withdrawn 400 billion forints from health care in recent years, and the 100 billion that they are about to put back on would not even be enough to bandage the wounds. The Hungarian health system is doing so badly that we will all now say various WHO or OECD reports, but I do believe that we do not even have an argument with my colleague Gabriella Selmeczi that according to WHO data, there are cancers and cardiovascular diseases, which are the world's leading cause of death. In developed countries, annual cancer deaths are only a third of those newly diagnosed, more than half in Hungary. Every year, we lose a person like the population of a larger village in lung cancer. That's where we come in top of the world. The cruel administration of the National Health Insurance Fund, which has been established, hinders the recovery of patients, since by 2016 - said doctors - the amount that they can devote to this has been reduced by nearly half, which in itself reduces the patient's chances of survival. Because of the lack of a pathologist, it is not uncommon to wait months for the results of histopathology tests, which means that oncology patients can be initiated with a significant delay. There is no government strategy in the field of crisis psychiatry and addiction. [[István Szilárd Németh: You closed it!]] They are about 40 to 50 years behind Europe. Among OECD member countries, one of the lowest rates of health expenditure is spent on Hungarian psychiatrists, while the consequences of diseases in OECD countries consume up to 20 times this, up to 4 percent of total GDP. Priority management of these areas would be a vital task for all of us. Not only in the field of medicine, health care, prevention, the country is also extremely lousy. Instead of helping to build a healthy lifestyle for a living, the government is spreading excess billions elsewhere. If they wanted to be so brave, they should have been in the previous debate when we decided on payment and HUF 260 billion in the Hungarian National Bank, but if that source were here today and we were discussing where resources should be provided due to territorial disproportion, then the sentence of every speaker so far would certainly be credible. In the absence of that, we cannot really talk about it today. Your Fundamental Law has made it clear that real social security will cease. In this situation, they want to eliminate the National Health Insurance Fund as their last dagger. As the professional organisation of health economic managers points out, OEP represents a national value, which is embodied in the professional knowledge, practical experience, irreplaceable value of data, and not least in the territorial organisations and effectively functioning control networks of the care system, these values are now called into question. That is precisely because the professional tasks that would be essential are overridden by your political decisions. There is an untenable state that areas such as education, health care, have not received an independent wallet, Minister. You may be setting expectations for a professional debate, but I would like to tell you that this is Parliament. And if someone tells us the real Hungary that they perceive, on the other hand, you ask for a professional answer in vain, professional solutions should work there. Is there a solution to the fact that there are 500 unattended districts in Hungary today, what is the professional solution? The demand here is that not only a general physician, but also a pediatrician or even a dentist is missing from the care system. What about them who live there, Minister? That's what you have to answer to. You don't have to point it backwards because we're past that. You can win, but people don't win, and believe that people want to be healthy, and even if they get sick, they'd be happy if they didn't have to live up to the family's financial resources to keep them healthy. If an employee is afraid of getting sick because he loses his job, loses his income, and can't support his family, will we be pointing back to 1944, Minister? Or face the fact that this is the 21st. Company? Even for you. We all do. There's a crowd of doctors and lack of supplies. He spoke of emigration, Minister, but he did not mention that about 500 of the 26,000 nurses who are fighting today in Hungary according to their oath and creed. Although the number of people aged between 35 and 50 is the highest, it is about 15 thousand, but under the age of 30 it is only 3,000, and the situation is similar among graduates. The average age of GPs is 55 years, the rate of pensioners is more than 26 percent, while the age of under 40 is less than 10. Dear Minister, Today, it is difficult to sell a general medical practice to a retired doctor that is fully built and has modern tools. It is not a career for young and middle - aged doctors, even with the possession of an apartment or a farmhouse, that they cannot take this job. Not only is it a better offer to leave abroad, but there is also a lack of respect for the profession. As long as you consider consulting in your own education or health care as a key issue and refuse to listen to the opinions of doctors and nurses who say in the days and everydays what the situation is and how blasphemous the state of health is, you cannot expect that professional appreciation can actually be felt in everyday life. [[12.30]] In April, Márta Ladányi, head of department of the National Office of Official Medicine, talked about the fact that a survey on the availability of personal and material conditions was launched in hospitals. He reported on the results of the examination of hospitals and clinics in the city and county at the end of November. As a summary of the data showed, no hospital examined was fit for what was expected, and there is an institution with only 25 percent of the minimum conditions. He's quoting it, it's an official investigation. Due to the lack of conditions, one third of hospitals are completely unfit for healing. György Vejkey, president of the Hungarian Hospital Association, is of the opinion that in this state several hospitals should be closed immediately. And then it remains a question of who will work in these institutions. The money spent on infrastructure development of hundreds of millions of HUF did not bring any positive change in the living and working conditions of the workers, they continued to be overwhelmed and desperate. There is a need for comprehensive, fair and long-term health pay, giving respect and livelihood. It's not enough to talk about doctors' salaries. Mr Minister, I am just saying to you, on today's average between 2002 and 2006, there has been an average wage arrangement in the healthcare sector corresponding to an increase of 67 thousand forints. Between 2010 and 2014, they were able to show an average wage increase of 19 thousand forints, based on the data of the HCSO. I understand and it is true that they focus primarily on doctors' salaries today, but fair pay for nurses and assistants is essential for the functioning of hospitals. According to the news, it is becoming more and more difficult without them, so fewer and fewer people are qualified in hospitals because our qualified and graduate nurses are fleeing the country. Today, you can hardly find a nurse who has only one job, a second or even a third job, to be able to sustain himself. In this situation, I am convinced that all prestige investments must be stopped immediately. We need wage increases for health workers, the release of the national health insurance register, the debt settlement of hospitals, the purchase of appropriate medicines and instruments. And it is necessary to initiate a transformation of the use of EU resources in health so as to enable the development of health care at systemic level, while at the same time continuing to increase the salaries of health workers in order to slow emigration. If the Prime Minister is a XXI. In contrast, the Hungarian reality is sometimes XIX. It is of the century, then it must be decided whether what appears in this paper, in this room, in the laws, or whether what is in Hungarian reality exists. I suggest that everyone comply with the professional call to visit a hospital, not as a patient, but as an opportunity to get to know those everyday life, so that it is easier for them to express reality from this pulpit or from a ministerial seat. Thank you very much.
u2016-04-26-61	In the remaining timeframe, I give the floor to Mr István Tukacs.
u2016-04-26-62	Ladies and gentlemen, Dear House, You haven't heard a two-and-a-half-minute lead speech yet, but I'm trying. Dear Minister, I want to talk to you about two things. One: if healthcare is a national issue, then we need to agree on certain issues. Now the strange situation is that there must be agreement on one thing: at least 600 billion for health care in three years. That's what the profession says, that's what lobbyists and everyone else say. If you can't do this, and from your 100 billion recommendations, you don't seem to know it, then you failed this match, Minister. He failed to build the stadium, his buddies, the oligarchs, his relatives and György Matolcsy. The other question I would like to say is that Mr Chancellor said that he has five points; he does not have a programme, he has five points. I'm sorry, it's not Chancellor, it's Secretary of State. But he didn't tell me how he wanted to introduce the chancellor system. How do you plan to make sure that these people are not financial commissaries, but aid to health care? Two, it seems that the announcement in the case of the super hospital in Budapest has preceded the delay. It was announced this morning that it wouldn't be like this. Ladies and Gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, I wanted to talk to you about two issues that seem to remain unanswered throughout the day. Thank you for your attention.
u2016-04-26-63	I give the floor to Péter Harrach, the lead speaker of the KDNP Group.
u2016-04-26-64	Mr President, Dear House, Before talking about the health situation, the tasks carried out and the future tasks ahead of us, I think I should start with appreciation for the past, history and performance of Hungarian health care. Hungarian doctors such as Ignác Semmelweis and such prominent representatives as László Batthyány-Strattmann stand before today's doctors as role models. So health care has a good past. And we also need to see that the high quality of training, the results of research or the internationally recognised areas of pharmaceutical production. But we need to talk about today's reality. Let's start with the personal issues of health care. Is the number of doctors adequate, few or many in Hungary? We see from the data that the population ratio of 30,000 doctors in health care is equal to the international average. As far as the number of nurses is concerned, it is tragically low, half the need for 4,000 new nurses in hospitals. Of course, the wages are low, very low, as the public employees' wages of specialists, depending on their age, represent a net income of between HUF 200 and 300 thousand. It is also true, of course, that the income of the medical community is differentiated, as many people are looking for such additions as business contracts - on-calls are largely solved in many places - private orders and work in private institutions - clinics, diagnostic centres - and the system of gratuity money is also a form of payment supplement. But the area that we can influence is important to us, that is, the civil servant's wage. It has already been said that there have been and will continue to be different opportunities to increase this. Consider that the government has seized a wage increase of HUF 300 billion over the last five years; this meant an average increase of 18%. After the Resident Scholarship program, young specialists are now receiving an additional HUF 151,000 supplement. This was one of the first steps for doctors. Nurses also had a wage increase, but it is far from reaching what is needed. And if we have to see something urgent and important in Hungarian health care, it is an increase in the wages of nurses, which may increase their numbers. [[12.40]] But let us also say a few words about the conditions; I would like to ask questions, and the answer will be given to everyone. Are those 160 hospitals many or few in Hungary? Is the number of days spent in the hospital long? And: Is the method of social security funding bad? I suppose those are rhetorical questions. [[Lajos Rig: Not poetic, disease...]] What has happened so far, and what has to happen next? The increase in resources that we have just mentioned appeared primarily in investments, a HUF 500 billion development, which occurred mainly in rural hospitals. Unfortunately, this is because of the specific nature of the EU aid scheme. We, who are representatives of Pest County, suffer because not only in the field of health, but in all areas of life, Pest County, which is connected to Budapest as a central region, suffers from this phenomenon. There is only one hope for this county to receive a supplement from domestic sources. But it is a fact that 500 billion HUF has been allocated to the development of mostly rural hospitals. It is also a fact that the above-mentioned increase in wages of 300 billion also meant an increase in resources. There's been relatively little mention of the Rescue Service. 27 new rescue stations have been established and there are 467 new cars, which will be 130 more by the end of 17 years. There's never been such a development in the Rescue Service. I think that this is a big step in the area of emergency care. There has been a mention of the shorter waiting list, which has basically been reduced by half. That's what's happened in the past few days. But a serious effort was also made to improve the general medical system, and the 130 thousand HUF monthly allowance for the general medical practitioners may have been the first step. But let me draw attention to the fact that money may not always be used to involve missing GPs in rural health care, since there are a lot of unfilled, especially in small settlements, GP practices. And once again, seeing my own experience as a representative, there is not always the result of the special allowance they are promised. I think it is very important to extend the 100 billion, planned for 17 years, which gives us the opportunity to increase wages to a large extent. If we think about what is most important from the five-point proposal made by the Secretary of State, then we have to start from the particular situation of inpatient care, as this is also linked to the development of the general medical system, because this system, the inpatient system, is a little overweight, overweight, it is obvious that structural changes are needed here. One important element of this is the relocation of beds to the social system, which are not for healing but for care. I know that this is a very dangerous and counterintuitive idea, but just the international examples show that chronic care is practically not in hospitals, and the functionality of active beds is what needs to be focused on in an infirmary. Knowing the situation of the social care system, the system must first be qualified for this reception, so that chronic patients are not only provided with care but also with care and the health care they need. It is not an easy task, it can only be done gradually, but it must be done, because hospital care is the most expensive not only in Hungary, but in the world, and we must ensure the right ratio. This is, of course, linked to the renewal of farming and the chancellorship system, which is basically the common economic governance of 6-10 institutions, seems to be the solution, even if it is not necessarily called the chancellor system. Reforming the health system in Budapest is clearly necessary, even because this area has suffered the disadvantage of the aforementioned funding system. I believe that there are two things to focus on when we talk about further support for health care. One is the structural change of the aforementioned inpatient system, as an increase in resources can only be put into the system if these organisational changes have taken place and the wage arrangement has taken place. I'm thinking primarily about the wages of nurses. The five points of the Secretary of State offer a solution to these issues, and I believe that so far, the efforts made in the last five years, together with these five points, will bring about the result that, although it may not completely replace the many decades of lag, it will be a significant step in the health system and in the care of patients. Thank you for your attention. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2016-04-26-65	Ladies and gentlemen, I now give the floor to Gábor Vona, the lead speaker of the Jobbik Group.
u2016-04-26-66	Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear Guests, The governing parties celebrated the Fifth Birthday of the Fundamental Law yesterday. They celebrated it alone, the opposition parties did not have a festive atmosphere. This truncated celebration reminded me of one of our comedians, the evil, herpes-like Ödönke, who invited his classmates to his birthday party, but no one went to the birthday party, and the evil, herpes-y Ödönke wondered why they didn't. Well, when government representatives wonder why we weren't in the festive mood yesterday, because there was nothing to celebrate. And the fact that your Fundamental Law has not been able to strengthen the country in the last five years has failed to improve the lives of the Hungarian people is one of the best and saddest examples of the state of health. There are two areas, health and education, which have kept public life, the press, and parliamentary meetings, and in many cases also the street, two areas that are of greater importance than themselves, since healthcare is not just about health and education. Both sectors also have a crucial role for the economy, and these two sectors, which are of crucial importance in terms of economic competitiveness, could be said to be of crucial importance. Economic competitiveness requires a competitive workforce and, in order for a society to be competitive, a workforce must be well-trained and healthy. Education is responsible for a well-trained workforce and health care is responsible for a healthy workforce. And that is precisely the two areas, my honourable members of the Government, which you have left behind, left you to your fate. And if you'll excuse me, I'm not going to deal with the crimes of the socialist governments of the last eight years after six years of government, I think we should talk about you now. [[12.50]] Your social and economic policy, rather than a well-trained and healthy workforce, considers cheap labour to be the basis for our economic competitiveness. With this call, he tries to strengthen Hungary's economy, using this call to attract foreign capital to Hungary, thus reaching an addicted society. An addicted society that paralyzes Hungary's operation and is inexcusably XX. It makes it century-old, where corruption governs everything that goes on in the administration of the state, where power can break anyone at any time, where existential vulnerability keeps millions of people in constant fear. This is not a civil society, my honourable pro-government colleagues, it is really just a communication product for you. An addicted society is not a civil society. Civil society should consist of citizens with independent opinions and stand-alone existence. You have not made Hungarian society this way, and you have not moved in this direction in the last six years. There's no middle class. You talk about the middle class on a regular basis. But a society where the middle class constantly slides down to the lower middle class and struggles with everyday livelihoods, with possible permanent slippages, is not a civil society, and not a broad middle class. Therefore, I think that Jobbik, as the strongest Hungarian opposition party, needs both to put the defence of civil Hungary on your flag instead of you, and to put it on the flag of strengthening the middle class, to set a goal and to defend these important goals. A XXI. This is the task of the national people's party of the century. To achieve these goals, however, we need strong health care, and I must say that it is not the first day of debate where I am saddened to listen to the debate that is going on between Fidesz and the MSZP, the essence of which is the crucial aspect of which is which one is more wrong, who has more sins, who has more omissions. This may be an important aspect for us to have this debate, but if this is the only part of the public debate between us, then let us not be surprised if there is no progress. A XXI. The party of the century, as we consider ourselves to be, is not only a right-wing party, and not only is it intended to define the omissions and sins of the MSZP or Fidesz, but also to try to look ahead and focus on solving the problem. Remember, too, that in 2008, a referendum, a referendum where two health and one educational questions made their victory in 2010, so to speak, or I could say, the two-thirds majority of them in Parliament were made clear with this blow, with two health and one education issues. Isn't it interesting that they have given their victory in areas in which they didn't make any difference when they came to government? In fact, not only did they not do anything meaningful, but they were able to make things worse. They have also abused the trust and the power they have received. I do not think it is a problem, I want to be very fair to you, I do not think it is a problem, it is not that you have tried to save health care, you have tried to improve health care, but you have failed because there have been such difficult external and internal circumstances that you have not been able to cope with, that would be another acceptable human and fair explanation. In fact, I'm even saying that not only would you have tried, but seeing all the obstacles, you didn't cut it, you turned back. The thing is, and I have to confront you from here, from this place, that you didn't try, you didn't want, not only that you didn't try, you didn't want to save health care. It's not a mistake anymore, it's not a political error, it's a government error, it's a crime. The ministerial structure, which was developed in 2010 and 2014, in which a number of sectors, where appropriate even a separate ministry, were combined, proves in itself what I say. After all, it was not with this ministerial structure that you intended that these sectors might be able to better enforce their interests within their various links, but rather in the opposite interest. It was in their interest that these sectors be jointly strangled, crowded into a ministry and jointly choked, health and education. This is why we had to launch the real national consultation on 30 January 2016, as the substantive debate, the constructive debate and the opportunities for a fair dialogue have disappeared. Whether we look at the government's work in terms of health or education, we see that it is unable to create meaningful and useful work, dialogue with trade unions, interest representatives, the profession, the organisations involved. At the moment, we are saying that if we are to achieve any results in the field of health, we should at all give the actors concerned confidence and hope back. There is a huge lack of confidence in the government and the government parties, while the sector would require constructive professional debate, as the sector is full of problems, full of exclamation marks. In the following areas, we are the hosts of European countries, let me highlight some without the need for completeness: access to care, available services, success of treatments, prevention efforts, patient rights and patient information. While the European average improved in these areas in 2014, the third Orbán government was able to continue to deteriorate in these areas. Gabriella Selmeczi spoke about the great results of the government and the area in medical training. Only it has not been said that more than 80 percent of Hungarian doctors are considering leaving the country, and half of them have already made the necessary preparations for this. While Fidesz talks about stopping, reducing the exodus of doctors, the opposite is true, and in the case of nurses we do not see positive signs, and in the area of nurses and health professionals, there is even a triple pressure on those affected. On the one hand, there are many people fleeing abroad, on the other hand, who leave the profession because of the circumstances in the sector and in their profession and start working in a completely different field. Finally, there is a third pressure that will come later in time, but perhaps it will be more severe, the lack of supplies. Under these circumstances, under such circumstances, who is the young man who will want to work in health care, while he is even a professional? Today, it does not take an adventure or courage for a health worker to go abroad - or a doctor - in fact, it takes an adventure and courage to stay in Hungary. We've been talking about general health care, basic care. There are 307 GP practices in Hungary that have been unfilled for more than six months. It has also been mentioned from the mouth of the lead speaker of another opposition party, but I repeat that within ten years, if this trend continues, half of the country will remain without basic health care. With regard to the health condition of society, I will not make ourselves more depressed: cancers, heart and blood circulation diseases, diabetes, the dental state of Hungarian society, various forms of self-destruction, I almost have to say, if you want to give negative examples of the state of health in Hungary. You often refer to sport, saying that sport is your success and that sport is, after all, a special form of health care, but it is still a form of health care. That's the truth. We have also heard in your argument that every forint spent on sports saves 3 forints in healthcare. I ask whether, even if we accept that this statement, this item is true, this formula really works, you are actually investing money in the area of sport where this item can work. Do you really think the situation in Hungary has improved in terms of healthy lifestyles? Does Hungarian society really play more sports? Or it is simply that you consider sports to be important on the basis of certain window views and personal politician whims. Not to mention the state of mind of society, which, of course, can be very metaphorically linked to health care. If we accept the medical truth that if a person's soul gets sick, his body gets sick, too, and if we project this on society, saying that if a society's soul gets sick, then society will also become physically ill, it is worth considering whether the state of mind of Hungarian society has improved over the last six years, compared to the governments of Gyurcsány-Bajnai, when the psychological and mental state of Hungarian society was terrible, compared to your six years. I don't think so. It is as suffocating to live in Hungary under your government as it used to be. Obviously, this can also have health consequences. Today, the health system in Hungary is maintained or guaranteed by various undesirable or not necessarily normal circumstances, let us think of the gratuity money, or let us think of the high proportion of private expenditure at European level, in European comparison. Or let me say a positive thing, which holds the health system together despite so many problems: the vocation, the love of health care workers, the humility of work. [[13.00]] If we took these out of health care, the health system would basically collapse. I had the opportunity to attend the last meeting of the National Health Round Table, I was lucky to attend, and there we heard an expert lecture on the state of health, where the rapporteur demonstrated and presented the health problems with a long student. Finally, he said that there were three serious health problems. The first serious problem is underfunded, the second serious problem is underfunded and the third very serious problem is underfunded. With this I would like to say, and then my fellow Members will talk about it at the time we have at our disposal, that yes, structural reforms are necessary, yes, there is a need for austerity measures. Yes, there is a need for efficiency-enhancing measures. But as long as it is not put into health care, we do not put in the necessary resources until the European average, or we remain at the regional average of the Visegrád 4s, we do not put it into the resource needs of the health sector, and we do not expect any structural hocus pocus, any five points or any more effective dreaming to improve health. And it's not a miracle for the health sector, it's just as much resources as other countries put in it, either in terms of GDP, in terms of central expenditure, or in terms of budgets. Today they want to run Hungarian health care with as much money as they can't. The first and most important task is to eliminate this under-financing. What other measures are needed in addition to and beyond this, as I said, my fellow Members and my fellow Members, who are policy-makers, will say. What I would ask of ourselves, of myself, of you, of all of us, in the context of this debate, is that we do not sink into XX. The trend of the 20th century to what has been the case in the past debate days and the previous debate day. So let it not be typical of pointing fingers, not of who made the biggest mistake, not of whose past is more muddy. The objective should not be to build walls between different actors, to turn the patient against the health worker and vice versa. Let's try XXI. To develop a century-old debate and debate culture in which we are sensitive to the problem, not only to the other's mistakes and sins, but also to solve the problem, if we believe at all that we can have a meaningful debate in Hungary on a serious issue such as health care. And the other, let us not build walls, but build bridges among the various actors in health care. Because if we build walls on this issue among the various actors, we will stay where we are at the moment. If we build bridges, we might be able to move forward. With this hope, I wanted to contribute to today's debate, and I wish to all speakers that they could contribute to this debate and that we could move Hungarian health care forward. Thank you very much for your attention. [[It's a rare applause in the ranks of the Jobbik. György Szilágyi, János Pócs and Miklós Soltész speak loudly.]]
u2016-04-26-67	Ladies and gentlemen, The LMP Group also indicated that two speakers presented the group's position. In this context, I give the floor first to Mr Schiffer András.
u2016-04-26-68	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear Minister, In December last year, Hungary's Prime Minister said at a forum that at the end of the cycle we will be able to talk about health and education. Looks like you're not gonna make it out of this. The big question of 2016 is whether education and health will survive this year at all. In the last cycle, the Fidesz government's policy on health was driven by the intention of getting away with it, but it is worth looking back at the previous cycle. Between 2006 and 2010, there was not only the referendum referred to before me, but there was a movement in order not to market social security. This movement, the social security movement, achieved that the then government was forced to back down, and therefore the insurance company of the poor and the insurance company of the rich had not split up before 2010. In comparison, Fidesz rode that dissatisfaction, obtained a two-thirds majority, rewritten Hungary's Constitution in the hands of the two-thirds majority, and until the Constitution fixed the right to a single social security benefit before 2011, the Fundamental Law abolished this. What we've seen in Fidesz's social image, social policy, is stealth neoliberalism. One of those XXs. The politics of the century, the philosophy of which can be summarized very simply: who has nothing, is worth so much. The result of this policy is a collapsing health care, the result of this policy is that poverty and poor health are strengthening one another at an ever-increasing pace. The social picture of Hungary being split into two with the rich few who have money for quality knowledge has money for quality health - the numbers that show that the demand for private health services has increased over the last one or two years - and at the same time the poor crowd is slaving for lower wages, in increasingly difficult conditions, in deteriorating health and deteriorating mental environments. Dear Parliament, This policy is a policy of downward wages, this policy is about the desire that Hungary will be desirable to foreign investors if there is an easily eviscerated population. Compared to this, we have to draft a renewable picture of Hungary by 2018, a XXI. The Hungarian image of the century is about giving quality knowledge to the crowd, and it feeds on the recognition that the key to Hungary's rise is that if the crowd has the opportunity to preserve its health, restore it, and Hungary can feed on Hungarian knowledge and quality Hungarian knowledge. Dear Parliament, On the one hand, the current health crisis is a wage issue, since it cannot be decoupled from the policy of Orbán, the cornerstone of which is the artificially low wage level. A Hungarian doctor still earns less than half as much as, say, his Slovak colleague. In the number of nurses per doctor, we are the hosts of Europe. However, if there is a shortage within the field, it is the nurses who can reduce their load. The pay of nurses is the last among OECD countries. They're looking for you below the national average, so they've accelerated their migration, and there's a growing shortage of them. Not surprisingly, on average, three doctors and two nurses leave the country every day. In 2015, 1193 doctors and 567 workers requested the certificate of good repute required for working abroad. The gravity of the situation is shown by the fact that, among the 18 national sectors, healthcare is the 16th on the payroll, i.e. even among the worst paid domestic wage conditions, healthcare workers are among the worst. The government's promise that freshly qualified doctors could receive an extra HUF 151 thousand per month was also fake, so the minimum wage of the specialist could rise to HUF 270 thousand net. On the other hand, the. 1001 doctor wrote without any gratuity. The Facebook group said that they faced the fact that there was no trace of the money promised by the government when they paid their wages in February. It turns out that an application for a salary supplement, i.e. a measure communicated as a wage increase, is only a tenderable grant. According to the LMP, an immediate, real basic wage increase is required, instead of applying systems, the net of the minimum medical minimum is raised to HUF 270 thousand this year. Among the professionals and other specialist assistants, there should be a flat increase of 50 per cent, which should not be differentiated. Don't give me 5-15 billion to raise wages, which is not enough even for a beauty patch, as you've done so far. The first step requires a transfer of HUF 100 billion, and we will also propose this in the course of the 2017 budget negotiations. It is important to draw attention to the fact that workers' poverty is increasing within health care and, as in education, if they believe in health care, that leaving their staff on the side of the road will help to alleviate collapse and discontent, they are wrong. Today, there is a need for an annual surplus of at least HUF 300 billion in healthcare. It is necessary, on the one hand, to raise wages, to deal with the shortage of professionals, and on the other hand, because of operating costs, it is at least HUF 200 billion that is missing from the system. [[13.10]] Dear Parliament, We have to face the fact that in Hungary the question is not even whether there will be wages in health care in Western Europe, currently 2-3 times the shamefully low wages would be enough to keep the majority at home. One example: 60 percent of general practitioners are near or beyond the retirement age; some practice at 80 years of age because they can't make a living on their pensions; average age of general doctors is 58 years. As an immediate intervention, a minimum of HUF 50,000 basic wage increase would be required to prevent the complete collapse of the system. Dear Parliament, It should, of course, also be said that a fundamental paradigm shift is needed in Hungary in terms of health policy compared to what we have seen in recent decades. We need a health policy that focuses on health care rather than disease. The LMP is convinced that a sustainability policy should essentially focus on health preservation. This requires, of course, the long-term release of the social security register and the entire health system from the pressure of the pharmaceutical industry. In the long term, we need a health-preservation system where the consumption of medicines, such as antibiotics, is also reduced because we are aware that the growing consumption of antibiotics throughout the planet continues to pollute natural resources. It should also be recognised that, in the long term, there is no health-preservation policy without functioning environmental health and food safety. It should also be recognised that, as long as there are no State resources to increase mental health, such as the development of a Community psychiatric network, it is only fire-fighting interventions that government policy can do. What is needed is a health policy that enables Hungarian citizens to live a full life, makes people fit to maintain the physical, biological conditions of a decent life, and not least a health policy that, in the long term, points in the direction of preserving our resources for future generations. Thank you very much.
u2016-04-26-69	As the second lead speaker of the LMP, I give the floor to Congressman István Ikotity.
u2016-04-26-70	Thank you, Mr President, for the floor. Dear Parliament, Perhaps the biggest mistake of the government's health policy is that it is still trying to exploit the non-existent reserves of the health system. Its aim remains merely to reduce the cost of operating the entire system and to limit it. The government is only looking for political benefits, and it is the fact that it is not in the area of health. However, the responsible government does not ignore the issue of health, especially because some conscious and long-term planning would be easy to achieve in order to really spend less on health care. The only way to do this is to devote much more energy to maintaining health and creating a healthy environment, because there is no more effective way than to make people less ill. Compared to this, the government's health-related behaviour is simple: where they see money, it is withdrawn from the system. Instead of redeploying it, they try not to use it more, but to withdraw it and build stadiums from it, so the result will only be an unlivable and disease-stricken country, and a health system for which more and more should be spent, a dead end in which we move forward at an accelerated pace. However, the government continues to deal only with the withdrawal of funds. Hungary currently spends 550 billion forints less on health than the Visegrád countries. Even the Deputy State Secretary for Health has admitted this recently. Nevertheless, the government defends the opposition parties and trade unions calling on them for western wages, which is not the case. We want Hungarian health care to provide the most of our opportunities, and our options do not differ greatly from Slovakia's, Slovenia's or Poland's. The government's values and priorities are simply fatally flawed. We can see that a problem in the State Secretariat for Health is identified well, and they would even have a working solution, but they will never be implemented. There can be no other reason for this than that at the level of real policy makers, these proposals get stuck every single time, because the health of people does not matter to real decision-makers, the Prime Minister and his circle, they see only political risks in the whole of health, although in many respects it is clear what should be done for better functioning health, only will is missing. GP training and careers should be made attractive, and it should be made clear what tasks specialists can take off the shoulders of GPs, because the basic care will soon collapse. We can't go past the issue of wage increases. For years, LMP has been demanding a significant increase in wages for healthcare workers. We believe that this would have been expected not only for moral reasons but also as an investment, since it is much cheaper to keep a doctor or nurse at home than to seduce or train his successor after emigration. Although we do not yet know the exact details of next year's budget, we may be able to get the government to start what it was supposed to start six years ago. It is a huge mistake that there is still no guarantee of this year's wage increase, and it is not certain that the stories of the 100 billion next year are true. But even if all the words of the new promises are true, there is still little to be reported, because in fact, three times that would be needed only to solve the wage problems in a permanent way. This promise and finger-pointing by the government in the context of wage negotiations is unworthy. For workers who operate the system even in the face of terrible circumstances and humiliating wages deserve much more than that. But we cannot go away with the problem that seems small, but in fact very decisive, that the current governance structure is completely inadequate to manage large and complex systems within a ministry, such as education and health care. With regard to education, they have already admitted that they have pushed over that particular bicycle, but they also owe a similar admission to health. Overall, the cause of the health crisis is clear, everyone sees the main problems, in many ways even at the level of government policy makers it is clear what the solution would be, what immediate and longer-term steps would be needed. However, the government refuses to do so simply because it does not see the potential for short-term political gain. Thank you for your attention. [[Dr. András Schiffer applauds. Applause in the ranks of the MSZP.]]
u2016-04-26-71	Dear Parliament, It is now the first independent Member to come forward, so I give the floor to Mr Ferenc Gyurcsány.
u2016-04-26-72	Mr President, Dear Parliament, After Minister Balog's disappointing exposé, the Secretary of State's comments offer us at least some hope that we can talk rationally about this matter. If you don't mind - as I played a key role in a reform of health that has suffered political defeat in many respects before 2010 - in the debate that pro-government representatives are telling them what seems to be a positive figure, we oppositionists are obviously not going to agree to that; many details have been made. What is really lacking, yet I think is more of an understanding of this problem, but I don't want to talk pompously. There are two big ones here - I will use your favourite word, they use it for me - a lie, which, if it would hold us captive, you and us in many respects, and if I understand the comments that have been made so far, we have not been very concerned with this dilemma. For decades, there have been three basic statements about what we want from health care, and we are very shy about it. We say that we tell everyone equally, that we tell everyone free of charge, and that we tell everyone at the highest level. These are the three great pillars; it was also included in the Constitution, I do not know whether these three statements are in the current Fundamental Law - this is no longer in the Constitution. [[13.20]] If it is not in it, it would also make the debate easier in the sense that the constitutional barrier to this discussion has therefore been removed. Because the fact is that obviously many voters who listen to us or to me will not be happy about this, but the truth is that these three principles must be enforced at the same time, not only that we cannot and cannot. [[Dr. András Schiffer: Yes, you can.]] It is quite clear that, in addition to the fact that there is a lot of trouble in the area of money - and I hear everyone talking about it - I am not going to talk about it at the time - it is not just as Secretary of State says who receives what kind of care, what is the self-interest of the supply institution. That's part of the deal, but let's not be blind and Pharisees. Today, which one of us receives what care is basically determined by two things: whether he has a connection system that can reach someone with a phone, a good doctor, a well-named director, and skip steps, or whether he has enough money to pay himself legally or now with the legal Thanksgiving money. Let us not pretend that this does not exist in Hungarian health care. Do we want to face this or not? Do you or do you not intend to do so by the pro-government representatives? I think there should be an intention, at least to have a regulated access, and to know who's entitled. It is not true that the access of an elderly woman in Nyírbogad to Hungarian health services is the same as that of the majority of Members of Parliament or the elite of cities. That's not true. Look at your family, your relatives, yourself. That's not true. It is not true that we can give everyone the highest care. How is that true? That's why I'm telling you, Mr. Schiffer, for a moment, it's only a matter of will. We see in the statistics that, as a result of the development of health technology, the spending demand there is significantly higher than the most optimistic forecast of Hungarian national income. But there is a limit to what we can give people. From last week's writings, you know as well as I do, the health insurance fund consciously restricts the import and systemic use of certain new medicines, because it cannot withstand its budget. There are a lot of human dramas out there. I don't want to give advice to fellow Members on this matter, because I myself have a lot of failure experiences, how to change these rigidities and beliefs. But I really think we should at least start talking about it. This is your responsibility. Is there a meaningful public debate about this? Or we'll hear from the minister a series of numbers that may come from the Ministry of Finance Department to his glory, so from the Minister of Human Resources, I say it's disappointing and a little bit of shame. It's the first big lie circle. We, if we were careful, tried to face it at the time, to open up all the details of the truth more and more, if you will. To please you, we weren't very successful in it, but I think we were right, and you were wrong when you stopped it. Today, we would move forward if a number of the elements of that reform did not fail, including the resistance you organised. Then there's another cycle of lies, it's even more complicated. Because on one side, it is quite clear that health is one of the main human values. If it's healthy, we're basically saying we're a little bit further in. But it is not true when it is said that you know precisely that there is business behind the health sector for many; for whom it is a very good business, with not a little pig in it, and for whom it is a very bad business. It is a very bad business for contributors who have paid for social security contributions for a lifetime, and are now barely able to get decent services, a very bad deal for some health professionals, and a fantastic business for technology suppliers, often drug suppliers, the term they have been teaching us in the last few days is unfortunate: the doctors. I don't think that's the number one problem in health care in itself, but obviously there are people who make a very good living from this story. For years you have taught Hungarians the simple thing that health is not a business. I think they were successful as teachers, just teaching a bad curriculum, because health is a business. If we don't understand how the hell we can reconcile this dual aspect, so that we can be the winners in the end and not investors in the health industry for the sake of clean business profit, then I think we will never be able to achieve a normal health sector, because we can't do the coordination of the interests and value world that act on it. So, all the debates that we have here in this House say that more money and more structural changes and deeper, I don't think we're gonna make it until we face the basic issues, which will be infinitely painful. My last comment is that my colleagues have been strangely involved in public education. I think the reason you're in trouble in public education is because you've changed, unfortunately, all the demands of teachers are against the changes after 2010 and in health care because you may not have been able to escape from your own trap and have done nothing. If you wanted my advice, by the way, but why would you want to know, you should have done it the other way, dear colleagues. Leaving him in education - it wasn't a perfect but relatively good system - and in health care because they wouldn't let us do it, you should have started doing it. They didn't do it. I don't think they have more than two years to govern, so now they're putting out the fire, they still have time for that, and they'll leave the rest to us, we'll do it. Thank you. [[Defiance in the ranks of Fidesz. Lajos Koėrózs and László Varju applaud. Happy Stephen intervenes.]]
u2016-04-26-73	Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Csaba Dömötör, State Secretary, has now indicated his wish to comment on the debate. You have the floor.
u2016-04-26-74	I would like to respond to what has just been said. Ferenc Gyurcsány said that the people sitting here are being captured by a circle of lies, I believe he said so. What I'd like to say is, not us, not most of us here, but you. Why am I saying this? In 2006, when you played a strong role in managing health policy, Mihály Kökény said that neither the government nor the MSZP programme included the introduction of paying services. He also added that the MSZP does not pay for health care, the MSZP does not sell hospitals. In the same spirit, Gábor Kuncze said, and later during the 2006 television debate, you said that claiming that the government wanted to introduce a prescription fee was a very stupid and unfair campaign. The visit fee was then introduced on 15 February 2007, which cost Hungarian citizens 300 or 600 or 1000 HUF. By the way, only 220 million forints were spent on communication, corresponding to the first visitation fee for about 733,000 people. I would like to raise this issue because I agree that the issue of funding is a fundamental issue in health, just because there is a multi-hour debate on the future and present of health, it is necessary to clarify how the issue of funding should look and, if I understand it correctly, you do not rule out that the issue of paid health should be re-established. [[Ferenc Gyurcsány intervenes.]] and I think it would also be good to use today to clarify the issue of paid healthcare by left-wing parties and to state whether they would like to put it back on the agenda. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties. Ferenc Gyuråcsány intervenes.]]
u2016-04-26-75	It is now possible to make two-minute speeches. In this context, I give the floor to Mr András Schiffer.
u2016-04-26-76	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, If I understand Prime Minister Gyurcsány correctly, then you say that it is what is the year XX. by law, in the previous constitution, everyone has equal rights to the highest level of physical and mental health, free health care, and equal rights to free healthcare, according to you, is a lie. The thing is, you're now on a platform with Fidesz-KDNP, because they've been taken out of the constitutional system from this very point of view, without throwing any particular theoretical seeds around. That's not in the Fundamental Law today. What I don't understand is why you protested against the Fundamental Law yesterday. The thing is, behind these words is a neoliberal consensus between you and the post-2010 power. We claim that it is possible to create a world in Hungary where everyone can have the highest level of physical and mental health, where there is constitutional protection in addition to social security - which is why you could not make the market for health insurance in 2007-2008 - and everyone has equal rights to free health care. [[13.30]] It is possible to create such a world in Hungary; and I think it would also be useful to talk about the fact that one of the biggest destructions of the past 8-10 years has been the unthinkable psychic and neurological institution of the National Institute of Psychiatric and Neurology, and nothing has happened after 2010. Generations will suffer the social consequences of this. Thank you very much. [[István Ikotity applauds.]]
u2016-04-26-77	If there is no further comment for a period of two minutes, we will return to the normal debate, and I will give the floor first to Mrs Bene Ildikó, on behalf of Fidesz.
u2016-04-26-78	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, There's a lot of thought in a man based on what he's heard. The only reason why I would really like to respond to the idea of President Tobias is the situation of addiction and psychiatric care in Hungary today. Yes, the closure of OPNI and the closure of the centre, the knowledge base, the technical base and the technical base led to the closure of the OPNI, and the reconstruction of this system has started recently with the opening of the OPAI. But you don't think that it's gonna take decades to build a professional base in a year or two, do you? A lot has been said here in the speeches on the public health situation in Hungary, and a lot of people have said that we are lagging behind in terms of life expectancy in relation to the countries of the European Union, and President Vona said that there is a need for meaningful and useful work in the field of public health. We agree with this, and I believe that a lot of meaningful and useful work has been going on in public health for many years. One of the most serious problems is indeed the occurrence of cardiovascular diseases and cancers, and smoking is one of the most serious factors. Today in Hungary 30,000 people die as a result of smoking. I have to say, in practice, that our first and very important step was that, as a general rule, smoking in private spaces and community spaces is prohibited from 1 January 2012. Yesterday there was quite a debate here on the distribution of e-cigarettes and electronic smoking devices, but I believe that the rules that we have made are absolutely important in order to reduce the smoking habits of young people. We must also say that we were the first countries in Europe to take action to reduce the consumption of harmful trans fatty acids, and Hungary was the third state in which this harmful component was minimized in the European Union. In 2015, a new Catering Regulation came into force, and along the same lines of thought, because if we think and consider on our flag that reducing cardiovascular diseases in Hungary is a very serious task, I believe that with the system of feeding where the salt content is reduced, the intake of saturated fatty acids is reduced, fruit and vegetables [[Dr. László Kács: This is not a conference, this is a political debate day.]] The main aspect is to promote the consumption of high-quality protein; this is definitely a very serious step. We have talked about how important exercise is and how important it is for our children to exercise and move regularly. Unfortunately, the fact that many of the children in Hungary today are already obese in childhood and are followed by adults, I think that in order to become part of their daily lives, there is a great deal to be done, and this is a very important task. Obviously, I do not say that we are on this path every step of the way, but the fact that more than 100,000 people regularly play sports, and the introduction of everyday physical education in 2011, I think that these are steps that are very important for the future generation. It is very important for healthy children to grow up and become part of their lives, both in their meals and in their movements, to pay attention, and that the diseases that will occur in their adulthood should take place as soon as possible. We also need to talk about screening, because in Hungary there is a very serious and very good screening programme, but it is very important that the population feel this too. [[Dr. László Kács: Everyone in the stadium will be cured.]] and do what is important in itself, that you yourself consider it important to take action for your health. The basic supply has a very important role to play in this, and the screening programmes that have provided the Hungarian population today have a very important role to play. We're gonna have to tell you about the breast screening. We still have a job to do, since we lose 2,000 women a year. There's a low turnout rate. Cervical cancer screening, which is also available virtually continuously since 2003, since 2002 breast screening, practically participation rate and willingness to filter still does not reach the level with which we can take another step. However, we have done a great deal, let's say, with regard to protective cervical screening, since today we have 1500 women with competence to perform cervical screening tests. I think that they, who are also in the smallest settlement, can do a great deal to improve these indicators. Epidemiological studies have shown that cervical cancer is associated with human papillomavirus infection at 90%. The fact that this vaccine has been included in our vaccination system since 2014 as a compulsory vaccination, I believe that it is also a step that we can protect our children and a step that can effectively cure 100 percent of this disease if it is discovered in time, we hope that we can treat it very seriously with this step. We must also say that Hungary has a vaccination programme and a system that is exemplary not only in the European Union, but also overseas. And if you think, fellow Members, about the epidemiological dangers that the migration situation has hidden, it contains, and of the fact that our children are safe from diseases that are unfortunately real and existing for people coming from Eastern and other migration areas, I must say that this is also a very important step, and that we have systems and a functioning public health system that we must say that we have been able to handle this situation with increased epidemiological risks as well. Today in Hungary, which we still have to deal with, and this is also a very important task of public health, and this is to reduce colon cancers and colon cancers. Here, since 2013, it is true that it is only at county level, but many programmes have been launched, which will practically be extended by the EFOP. There are three years of experience here. We must say that it is possible to reduce significantly the proportion of tumors and death by proper screening and care. One thing I would like to talk about is the health development offices, since since 2013 there have been 61 health development offices in Hungary. They work very hard with basic care, hospital systems, civil society organisations and municipalities, a group of professionals who can do a lot for the health situation of the people there. I have to say that they have reached nearly 160,000 people, and 160,000 people have used the services that health promotion agencies can offer. I have heard from all my fellow Members and each keynote speaker that we need cooperation, agreement, reflection. I ask my fellow Members, if they really mean it, to do so not only at the level of words, but also in practice. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[Applause from the pro-government ranks.]]
u2016-04-26-79	I now give the floor to Congressman Lajos Korózs.
u2016-04-26-80	Thank you very much. Dear fellow Members, I think it is unprecedented that, on such a health debate day, the minister managing the wallet and the secretary of state are away from the Chamber for hours. This is unprecedented! I think there hasn't been much precedent for this in the last 25 years. [[Sándor Font: That's not true!]] There wasn't much precedent for that. [[Dr. Zoltán Ónodi-Szűcs takes over as Secretary of State.]] I would like to talk very briefly about two things: on the one hand, social security, as a major sub-scheme for the public administration, on the current situation and future prospects, and, on the other hand, on chronic beds, if you have the patience to listen to. [[13.40]] I think and referred to this, too, by our fellow Member, András Schiffer, the leader of the LMP faction, in my opinion, when the definition of "social security" was omitted from the Fundamental Law itself. Look, I'm sure a lot of comments will start with the amount of money and resources needed by health care, and they will rightly raise this, because health economists have proven it for months, if not years, that some HUF 500-600 billion should be put into health care, because otherwise it won't work. Of course, I am not talking about the structural amendments that professionals are putting next to the resources. Look, as far as I can see, as long as it is not clarified whether you want to remedy this problem through public health or through social security, there is no need to talk about anything, because according to the Fundamental Law, there is virtually no social security in Hungary today, and if there is no social security, there has been a nationalisation instead, and it looks like they want to remedy these problems in the state structure, and this has failed. It is also worth considering, in my opinion, whether we are making social security benefits, health care and retirement benefits a constitutional right. I see that these two sub-schemes now only work because the people working in them are doing unconscious work, working day and night, and the government is doing everything it can to support the government's will to, say, merge the two institutions within a year. It is said to establish a national family support and social security office, and it will terminate in a year's time, and yesterday I referred to it in my interpellation, degrades it to the level of payment, and it will be installed in the Hungarian Treasury. But, please, it's a lot more than just payments. It's a lot more than that. At the time when the Fundamental Law was adopted and the fundamental laws were assigned to it, and before that, the previous constitution was amended, it was clear that, in the case of retirement benefits, only the old-age pension was intended to be maintained as a pension and that all benefits depend on virtually state favor. The early retirement pension, the invalidity and accident disability pension, the reduced amount of early retirement pensions were abolished, and I'm not saying the rest, the early, early-retirement miners' and artists' pensions. As a result, the entire pension administration was destroyed, the whole pension administration was corrupted, and then degraded to the level of a department of ministry. For years, I have been waiting for such a simple answer that, in the event of a claim - of course I am talking about the pension - a decision will be taken after how long, and how many months after the decision, the allowance will be paid. For four years they have been unable to answer this simple question, since thousands, tens of thousands of complainants are now saying that, compared to the appearance of the claim, the payment is to be made for seven, eight, nine months, and these people must exist without money for almost a year. Secretary of State, how did you put it with regard to chronic beds? You said they were wasting the money that would otherwise be in health care? I think these elderly people - according to some statistics, there are 17,000 beds, other statistics say there are 27,000 beds, we assume that there are so many people and one person is important - they are both old and sick. The social care system and the health care system should be brought closer together. We know very well that through the optics of health care, they can think that they need more social care, and through social optics they should think that they need health care. Every penny that the Hungarian state or Hungarian society uses for these elderly people today is not wasted money. These people didn't come from space, these people are our parents, our grandparents, who have paid social security contributions for decades, they have earned the price of getting decent care at the last stage of their lives. They paid every penny, worked three shifts for 40 to 50 years, and paid contributions. True, I know that your employer's contributions have been renamed as a social contribution tax, and you don't have to be an economist to know that the tax is a public burden, and there's no compensation for the public burden. This part has also been neutered compared to the old constitution, but yet I say that these elderly people should be paid attention, and they should be worthy of the last stage of their lives. Hungary cannot be so poor, it cannot think of a government as no matter how they complete their earthly career. A worthy old age must be ensured for each elderly person. Thank you so much for listening.
u2016-04-26-81	I now give the floor to Congressman László Földi of KDNP.
u2016-04-26-82	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, Much has already been said here from the lead speakers, and now from my fellow Members who have spoken about health. I really don't want to look at the big system a little bit, I want to look at our area, Cegléd and its surroundings, what problems there were, and what solutions have been made, what improvements have been made in recent years, and what can be expected in the next few years. However, before I say this briefly, let me remind my fellow Members - I remember back when I was mayor when we were the keepers of these institutions - how we were besieged, for example, by HospInvest. Thank God, our body of representatives was very wise, because he didn't give HospInvest the hospital to operate, and then we experienced a few years later that the institutions that this company operated, for example, had been robbed and destroyed by these infirmary hospitals. Gyöngyös, for example, was an ectant example of this, not too far from us. As far as the situation in Cegléd is concerned, I must say that the Toldy Ferenc Hospital and its clinic in Cegléd have indeed undergone major improvements in recent years. In order to describe it very briefly, the hospital spent some HUF 470 million on various energy developments, and this spring, together with the Hetény Hospital in Szolnok, a diagnostic development of HUF 600 million, which was the biggest development of recent years in the Cegléd hospital. I think that in such a small - quote sign for the small - rural hospital like Cegléd, the drafts that the health government has formulated in five points are crucial, because in and around Cegléden, patients deserve everything in order to get the best chance of healing. What I'd like to bring up here as a little negative is not that old. There are 65,000 people in the Nagykatai district. The inpatient care and outpatient care of 65,000 people in the last hundred years has belonged to the Cegléd Hospital, and since this year, it looks like the latter has been moved across the county line to the St. Elizabeth's Hospital in Jászberény, and we are very afraid that this will be followed by a transfer of inpatient care, which would seriously affect the Toldy Ferenc Hospital in Cegléd. [[13.50]] I am very confident that the ideas, the development plans that have been formulated here at government level, if not able to compensate for the omissions of the last 30-35 years, can make a significant contribution both to basic care and outpatient care and to inpatient care, so that Hungarians can receive decent health care in an appropriate manner. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-04-26-83	I now give the floor to Congressman László György Lukács of Jobbik.
u2016-04-26-84	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Honourable Secretary of State and present Enquiries! I think it is important to make an announcement without any self-police or praise, that, contrary to what has been said, I was the one who initiated this health debate, and Jobbik initiated it, and that the idea came out of our benches. It is precisely because I have thought and thought very much about the issues that all parties here in Parliament must discuss, so I am particularly pleased that they are here, where appropriate, from the trade unions, from the chambers, so not only from the parties, but also from civil society organisations themselves. They need to discuss the past, the present and the future of health - as it is in its title - because without it, we cannot understand the whole problem; without it, the whole health care... - what everyone has been wanting for a very long time and everyone is waiting for, we can ensure a 20-year partnership in which we have a minimum level of cooperation, a minimum of cooperation, which provides a sure basis for the care system, the workers in it, the people who want to heal in it, and maintains clear and clear relationships for everyone. That is why I thought that all three aspects, his past, his present, his future must be examined, because without it, there is no understanding of what the health problem is. But if we choose from the problems, there are many, many said that with crisis - many said it was a crisis - we can even agree, but we can also express the opposite, opponentian opinion, but I would not say so, but I would call them problems. Three of these problems must be selected, which, in the course of the real national consultation, are identified by professional organisations, but also by people, are three very important areas of health, in which there is definitely a need for innovation, in which there is definitely a need for improvement. The first such area is patient safety, patient comfort or even discomfort, i.e. how they feel in the system, how they can react to the circumstances and institutions around them. The second problem is employee working conditions. Here we must not simply talk about wages, but about everything that weighs on the workers' shoulders, all the burdens need to be discussed. The third is the institutional structure itself and the institutional problem system, opening up the debate on whether there is a sufficient hospital in Hungary, whether there are many hospitals, what we call hospitals at all, but also whether it is sufficient or how to ensure an adequate number of basic suppliers, or how it can be adapted to provide adequate, accessible but still secure services. Focusing on the first area, which concerns patient safety, the first question that needs to be asked is whether patients are safe. And if we ask this question, there is neither a yes nor an answer, but it is possible to say - and we have to look at the past in this - that they may be less safe, and I mean that although the employees in the Hungarian system are doing everything they can to ensure that patients are in safe conditions, yet technical progress is made, yet the age has progressed so far, and Hungarian funding is so far behind this, that in the international comparison, we can safely say and unfortunately not feel at ease that patients are not safe. Unfortunately, what we have seen in recent times is that at some level everyday political struggles in health care have also reached patients. We are dealing with a declining security or trust index, not to mention that it was confirmed in a recent survey that while about 70 percent of the patients felt safe during their last care, only 20 percent of the doctors who cured them could say that they felt safe in the care they provided. But if we are talking about patient safety, we can also ask whether there is uniform access for everyone in Hungarian health care or whether the ambulance actually reaches within the time frame. For example, why can't we learn about the breakdown of hospital infections at institutional level? Or, for example, why can't we know the list of fully transparent and well-functioning surgical results in the West about the results of each hospital? The past is very simple, and we can understand the past, there has been unbroken technical progress in the past, which meant patient safety. It is enough to talk about Semmelweis, it is enough to talk about surgical techniques, about the otherwise less affected Hungarian scientists, about Hungarian developers who all contributed to the development of global technology, but if we look at the past, we also need to see that thanks to left-wing governance, in many cases who did not speak or break down among themselves, they caused a permanent barrier to Hungarian funding and gave it to patient safety. If you like it and it is true, and Mr Secretary of State has said so, we are stuck in socialism with health and we cannot break out of socialism. In view of future questions, therefore, it must be made perfectly clear that in the area of patient safety there is a need for, for example, a system and database of known and easily accessible hospital infections. There is a need for uniform quality assurance in hospitals, there is a need for doctors wherever they go, wherever patients go to heal, to meet, if you will, a minimum regulation, which can be achieved. In this too, only politics can act, and not legislation can act, but the ministry can act, as they make up the regulation. If there is a need to reduce this to a level that is expected of the Hungarian system, it must be taken and done immediately. The point in the area of patient safety is that patient comfort should also be given, i.e. people who are going to recover - whether they are basic care, clinics or inpatient institutions - have confidence in care there. The Jobbik for Hungary Movement has long said that there is a need for compassionate health care, which may sound good in words, but its content is even better and bigger and even more charged, as it assumes a health care in which patients feel just as safe as the workers already know that the patient is safe and safe to provide their work, but the institutions can also feel comfortable with each other, as they feel that they are safe in carrying out their tasks. So you have to create a system, a triangle, where there are no gaps anywhere, no tilts on any side, but provides a very stable stability to the system. In view of the second main problem, this is the situation of health workers. It is clear that the current problem is not only in wages, but also in respect and working conditions. So, if we look at the present, this is what we must face. For wages, we can safely say that health workers are 16 out of 18 national sectors, in which we also need to move forward because they are usually 5-8 in the same way at European level, so there is plenty of progress to be made. I do not want to bring up the Czech example of what I said yesterday about President Matolcsy, who argued so - and I will bring it up. [[To intervene:]] That is right, President Matolcsy, and that is why it is important to emphasise it, he argued - that he is worth as much as the President of the Czech Central Bank, because he works so much and he is entitled to a salary of 5 million. And without 1001 Doctor's Thanks money, the Facebook group - from whom we quoted this letter - rightly asks whether Hungarian health workers are worth as much as Czech workers, because if they are, their wages should be developed to this level. We also see that, in contrast to many left-wing efforts, in health care, the government has tried to grab the pay system, but it also seems that since 2010 it has been in its children's shoes. In 2010, there was progress not only in terms of wages, but also in terms of working conditions, in promising the career model, but also in nothing, and in terms of salaries, there were only petrified, fragmented increases. It must therefore be said, yes, that it must be said that it is a priority to settle the wages of disbanded healthcare workers in health care, if you will, that it is necessary to settle before patient safety. So we expect the government to do so effectively, at the HUF 100 billion that can and may not be spent on next year's budget, although we may be able to see the draft budget within an hour if it were to be translated, it would not be enough to see that it would need HUF 150 billion or perhaps HUF 200 billion, as well as to start a career model for those in education. [[14.00]] What is the institutional challenge: when I formulated the debate day's initiative, I had this idea and I had this vain fantasy that we could discuss with a clean slate that there are many hospitals or few hospitals in Hungary, what we call a hospital and what we don't. Are there many 102 institutions, perhaps 60 institutions, or only 46 hospitals? I would like to leave this question open, and I very much hope that it will be possible to join this. But one thing is certain, however many institutions we have, the institutions cannot be left in a position to roll their debts from month to month. As President Gábor Vona said, it is perhaps the institutions' best to see that the three main problems of the whole system are underfunded, underfunded and underfunded. I am very pleased that you are here in this Chamber from the Ministry of National Economy, perhaps you can tell us the latest figures on how the government intends to challenge these otherwise meaty and wage-level issues and how it intends to eliminate this problem. I believe that this debate must be about both the past, the present and the future, and I am very pleased that we can conduct discussions or debates that will have to be matured and discussed between the parties later. Perhaps they can sit down and think together about what kind of social security they want, maybe they can sit down and think together about how many institutions they want, and maybe they can also think about how health can finally be pulled out of the living socialism in which they are currently struggling. I think it could be one of the substantive results of the debate day if we could at least determine the minimum conditions and minimum starting points from where to start. I believe that my fellow Members will provide sufficient ammunition with their speeches and that there will be a debate on them. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2016-04-26-85	I give the floor to Congresswoman Agnes Molnár, on behalf of Fidesz.
u2016-04-26-86	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, From the beginning of the debate, it didn't take much time. An hour later, they said they wanted to get paid for health care again. [[Sándor Font: That's what I'm talking about!]] They want to pay for health care the way they stopped in 2010. I would like to rethink and start over the 2010 sequel. On behalf of doctors and nurses, I would like to reject what you paint on Hungarian health care, as you say about doctors and nurses who carry out their responsible work. With these revelations, they are without exception qualified for their work. We should also remember that a long time has passed between 2002 and 2010. This is an eight-year period, and during that eight-year period, a lot of measures have been missed. They missed a lot of opportunities when they could have done something for health care. If they had not done so, it would have been possible to take much, much easier, more robust and faster interventions in 2010 in relation to the economic situation of the country in relation to the transformation of health care. [[In the notary seat, Adam Mirkóczki is replaced by Nándor Gúr.]] I can't get away from what my fellow Member Luke said. I also think that there is no story, that the past, present and future must be treated together. There are many of us in this room from the healthcare side of doctors, nurses or representatives of professional organizations. They all saw how your health system worked. They saw that when the visit fee, the daily allowance, the hospital care fee were introduced, the box fee for medicinal products was introduced, what a burden it was for people. You've seen, you've seen, you've seen the world when the vending machines were installed in health facilities. We saw them carrying the safety deposit boxes for sacks. Today, without exception, there are these unnecessary tools for which the source has been taken from the operation of medical and health care. You guys had this kind of health care. They had health care that destroyed the psychics, destroyed the world that we had fixed. They've released the patical liberalisation. One after the other, health care services in which significant public money was carried out were organised. Partial and whole privatisations have been carried out. From one day to the next, 16,000 active hospital beds were unthinkable and turned into so - called chronic and rehabilitation branches. These clearly resulted in a huge withdrawal of funding. And then we don't have to talk about the withdrawal of the convergence programme, but we remember that they encouraged the municipalities to transform their hospitals into an economic company. Thus, tens of thousands of people were expelled from the public sector. Of course, we also remember that, in relation to the Health Insurance Fund, between 2002 and 2010, none of the budget numbers were hit compared to the planning and fact numbers. We also remember that every year for three years, the Health Insurance Fund had a deficit of 300 million. 1226 billion were missing from the system. We also remember that, as a result of this irresponsible management, the general government deficit had fallen to 9.4 percent historical low in 2006. Overall, we can say that the socialists could not but did not want to face the health problems, and between 2002 and 2010 they conducted a conceptless, irresponsible and helpless health governance. In the inherited situation and in the country's economic situation in 2010, when the Orbán government started to manage and manage the country, of course, the problem was faced, the problems were identified, real steps were taken, conscious planning was carried out, and we started the transformation of health care based on real resources. We have launched public health programs, which the previous ones have known only in their account and address, but have never done anything for public health. Death figures, on the other hand, are an example. We have set the basic supply of human resources on a new path, and the employees of the healthcare system received the wage increases first in comparison to our economic performance. We have implemented infrastructure improvements and launched the foundations of eHealth. The most important additional resources for the period after 2010 should not be swept under the carpet, nor should it be said that nothing has happened. Forints 500 billion were developed, including major infrastructure developments and significant medical developments. If these improvements do not happen, I look forward to my fellow Members' questions as to how the Hungarian people are being cured, how they want to diagnose cancers quickly in 14 days. We spent 300 billion forints on wage increases and over 200 billion forints on hospital consolidation and operating support. [[14.10]] All of this means that, only by adding the largest items, we have provided the health sector with HUF 1000 billion as an additional resource as a real additional resource. You can't say nothing happened. I would like to highlight some areas. First of all, I would like to talk about infant mortality, because it reflects well the development of a country in terms of infant mortality data in a country. In fact, after 2010, we had to tackle the problem that this number is unfortunately not so good compared to other European countries. If we looked more closely at this and looked at why, then we saw that the perinatal intensive centers - which we created and recognized as having to take care of these supplies in centres - were operated until 2010, without providing resources, with a performance volume limit in newborn care, which meant that as long as there was money, they provided the newborn when there was no money, and then they didn't provide the newborn. The data is bad because the sick roads were changed overnight. A sudden change in sick roads meant that no one knew where sick babies or vulnerable pregnant mothers should be transported. There have also been serious consequences. Thirdly, our infant mortality data was also poor because these perinatal intensive centers, my fellow Members, operated in such a way that incubators, where the newborns are, could be provided by doctors, hospitals, with all the other means, without exception, with foundation money. These were serious problems. When the Orbán government changed this situation after 2010 and wanted to change it immediately, it took the following steps: it fixed and fully equipped all 23 perinatal intensive centres with medical instruments with HUF 5 billion; it immediately changed the sick roads; it released the performance volume limit in 2013 and provided unlimited funding for the supply of newborns. As a result, of course, we were very pleased, and the profession considered as an outstanding result that the number of infant mortality fell from 5.1 to 4.1 per cent between 2013 and 2015. It is noteworthy that after several years of stagnation, this number reached a 20 percent decrease in two years, and it is very important that it says in this issue that we managed to save 74 more babies' lives, because we also have a baby's life that matters a lot. It is also very welcome that in 2017, emergency and accident child care will appear as a next development area, which was announced yesterday by the Minister. There is a huge shortage, nothing has happened in the last ten years either, everyone could have done so, but they have not stepped up the development of emergency and accident child care, either in infrastructure, in instruments or in training. We will spend 10 billion forints on this in our big development program. For the lives of our children, everyone must do so, and we must provide them with safe care. The other is basic care. Many have talked about the issue of basic care, and the problem of basic care cannot be avoided. As long as we do not strengthen the way in which the gatekeeper function and the basis for supply are provided, we cannot begin to transform the supply system. The most important thing for patients is to have close-to-people care at their disposal and to have an adequate level of care at their disposal. Therefore, the series of measures that we were able to start from 2011 to strengthen the financing of the basic supply was very important. Firstly, to strengthen funding because the basic supply was so underfunded by 2010 that first of all we had to start working doctors and nursing staff, assistance, for a proper wage. So it is a great achievement that we now provide 40% more money to support basic supply in 2017. This includes GPs, GPs, school doctors, nurses, and regional dentists. I think it's an achievement. I think it's a win because if basic care and outpatient care work well, with adequate funding, adequate human resources, adequate assets, you put unnecessary hospital care in the citation mark, which can be cured in both primary and outpatient care, we can safely do there, and we're not strengthening hospital care. In order to strengthen the quality of supply, the assets of the basic supply - which is extremely important in all respects to ensure a high level of care to the general public - we have provided a significant source of HUF 12.7 billion in recent years. It is also very important that we have sorted out in a new law, the basic supply law, our change in the basic supply, partly the basic supply regulation for local governments, and partly the legislation. It is very important that, as part of the tax laws, in 2016, the local government was entitled to a business tax exemption, a discount for general practitioners, family pediatricians, dentists, and nurses. In addition, we have provided the possibility that the legislative amendments will soon be introduced: the institute of a collegial professional general practitioner, the law of practice and the aspects of the development of a community of practitioners, group practice, and, in the presence of certain specialist exams, general practitioners can also provide specialist services. All of this will enable the function of basic care to be strengthened, fewer patients to be hospitalised unnecessarily, more expensive. In order to reduce the number of unfilled GP practices, we have published applications, which we have already discussed. We talked about the practice change program. It is very important that within the framework of the practice purchase program we have provided the 250 million HUF resource that has enabled this basic supply to be an attractive, optional profession for young people. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-04-26-87	I now give the floor to Congressman István Ikotity, on behalf of the LMP. [[14.20]]
u2016-04-26-88	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Today, Hungary is the first in Europe in the number of deaths caused by cancer. I hope no one thinks that this is because Hungary is a cursed place. The reason for this is simply that we are not spending enough money on prevention. We do not strive to create a healthier environment, but cut down hundreds of years of trees. But even more so, that almost half of the Hungarian population lives below the minimum of living in constant existential terror. To a large extent, because the government believes that Hungary can only compete with low wages in Europe. This government has declared a war on freedom for schnapps instead of starting a war on alcohol problems. Of course, this should not be fought with the European Union, so Árpád Habony is obviously less attractive, but if we do not start, Hungary will soon be the country of one million alcoholics. It is well known how many deaths, how many cancers, how many ruined lives and how many broken families are responsible for alcohol. Less allergy medicines would be consumed if Hungary did not supply half of Europe with parlagfüzöpollen. Fewer Spanish or African tomatoes would be lost, and more healthier food would be available if local farmers were put in a position by the government and their agricultural policy would not be exhausted in the land heist. I'm sure more people would have a healthy lifestyle if swimming pools and runways were built instead of stadiums. Spending on mass sports is significantly more effective for the sport of broad layers, as has been said before, because a swimming pool is used by more people than the number of people in a new stadium at all. By now, we've come to the point of 58 years of average age among GPs. It's not uncommon for a general practitioner to practice at the age of 70-80. All of this is extremely dangerous because at the same time and suddenly the basic supply will collapse, increasing the current territorial disparities even more. More than 90 percent of the currently permanently unfilled zones are located outside Budapest and Pest County. This means that 4.6 million people can remain without care. It will have an extremely disproportionate impact on rural people and will have a particularly high impact on disadvantaged areas. Where unemployment is high and salaries are lower, it is obviously even more difficult to get to a doctor. Even now, there is twice as much chance that people in these areas will die before they are 65. Their compulsive centralisation measure has obviously failed in education, but they have also failed to deliver any positive results in relation to the nationalisation of hospitals. A good example of this is that at the end of last year, imaging diagnostic equipment purchases were carried out by putting in place a separate tender per hospital instead of attempting to take advantage of the only existing advantage of centralisation. However, through a major acquisition, they would be able to obtain much cheaper means and thus make more money on these assets. It is difficult to understand that we have finally created the ÁEK, this top organization, if not to make such purchases cheaper. Knowing the operation of the government, we can be sure that someone can benefit from it, but we can also be sure that it is not the patients. However, the otherwise poor machinery park is also one of the reasons why an imaging study still has to take several weeks to get patients into private health. Despite centralisation, there is no effective quality control, there is a poor representation of patients' rights, and the official control functions cannot be met by the medical office. Therefore, there are still no enforceable patient rights, no humane circumstances. Dear House, The government is about to make the biggest mistake of recent decades by trying to shut down the National Health Insurance Fund. However, OEP is one of the few state institutions that has been able to function effectively so far. At such low administrative costs, they cannot carry out such a diverse and complex task in any other country. In recent years, the management of registers has started, the continuous analysis of data, the practice of receiving health technologies, all of which deserve confirmation and support, but at least enough to allow the government to allow central offices with such important professional tasks to work. There is no point in the already uncontrollable size of mammoth ministries destroying well-functioning practices. Organisations such as OEP have a very important role to play in the correct, medically justified allocation of resources for health care. This will not be a reduction in bureaucracy, it will be an increase in chaos. The failure of the CLIK will be nothing compared to the uncertainty and supply disruption caused by the grinding of OEP. In the world's health system, there is a reason why the offices that can be measured to OEP are independent and are not subject to daily political winds. This autonomy ensures that the amount in the health insurance fund is used for the purpose for which it is justified. To spend scarce resources, the independence of the OEP should be increased and not reduced. It is no coincidence that professional organisations also took sides. If the government continues to stick to its failed and non-professional plans, it will in fact abolish social security, giving up the state's perhaps most important function, the health risk community. This has also seriously pushed the bike to cut red tape. Finally, let me remember, on this day of debate and in this speech, a sad subject such as the Chernobyl disaster thirty years ago, and draw two similarities to the current state. One is that the government is currently planning an investment with high health risks. [[Alexander Font: That's not true!]] On the other hand, I would refer to the nosocomial infections within the hospital, which they hid for a long time during the term of Secretary of State Szócska, and then, during the time of Secretary of State Sombor, they made public. Now we're talking about being secret again. This is similar to what happened in the Eastern bloc during Chernobyl: there is nothing to see here, let us not deal with it, you say, but the opposite would be important. Thank you.
u2016-04-26-89	I now give the floor to Congresswoman Timea Szabó of the Independents.
u2016-04-26-90	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, The government is using us as towelers - that's what a nurse told me yesterday at the hospital in Budapest, where I have been working as a nurse for the fourth week. I would also like to thank the Independent Health Union and Zoltán Zalatnai separately for helping me to take up this important position. At the beginning of the month, hospital workers showed me their bank statements on their mobile phones: 100 thousand forints, 110 thousand forints, 115 thousand forints net wage. All for three shifts, 10-12 hours a day. They work in a sickbed, they work under stress, they work under infection, they barely see their families, they can't see their children, they can't tend to their sick parents. They start at 6:30 a.m., finish at 7:00 p.m., often 8:00 to 10:00 p.m. by the time they get home, especially the country nurses. The next morning, at 4:00 a.m., they're on the train to get back to work at the hospital. Their families come at me, a lot of people raise their children alone, because you can't stand the fact that they're constantly under such stress on holiday days, exposed to this kind of vulnerability. Szilárd Németh has since left the meeting room, but I also tell him not to take Mary Sándor's name on her lips too much, because she is not worthy of wearing Mary Sándor's shoes either. Mary Sándor is the man who sacrificed the most for health care in Hungary today: he is sacrificing his own existence, his own family, to set an example for you. Nurses, such as him, have to pay 700 forints per month for compulsory chamber membership. And you know what they get in return for that mandatory bar membership? E-mails that you can get 10 plus 20 percent discount on buying a new car. Do you understand? A new car will obviously be bought by a hospital nurse for a hundred thousand forints. [[14.30]] You think it's very lifelike, don't you? And, of course, you can pay for the mandatory vocational training and further training that you have provided for them. For the past few weeks, since I've been working at the hospital, four of the nurses have resigned. One of them moved back to Siofok's parents and went to work at a social institution there. The other decided to stay home with his kids for a few months until he found a better-paying job. The third is about to start serving at a London airport. And the fourth one was a tram driver. As a nurse, he receives 110,000 forints a month and 175 thousand forints a month as a tram driver. I would like to ask you, my fellow Members, where the progress is. Where is the sentence said by Gabriella Selmeczi that we are aware of the health situation? Where are you aware of the health situation? And how are you aware of the health situation? By taking 400 billion forints out of the medical and pharmaceutical register for the last five years? By building stadiums for over 180 billion forints? That you spend nine billion forints on the railway alone to entertain Viktor Orbán? By raising György Matolcsy's salary to HUF 5 million a month? Is that what it is to you that you are aware of the state of health? Watch my hand because I'm not cheating. Nursing 100 thousand HUF crooked, corrupt central bank president, 5 million forints. [[Sándor Font: This statement must be protected.]] That's how you're aware of the health situation. And this wage negotiation? This? Who are you negotiating with? You and a György Matolcsy must have had some pretty good wage negotiations, we can see that. But I can see that Mrs. Cser is sitting here. I'm also asking him about the wage negotiation that's going on with the medical staff. [[Sándor Font: You can't answer here.]] 'Cause they're the ones who thank you, and they don't really want any of this pay-per-view. Because when you hear the word "wage negotiations," you get the stomach cramp, because you remember the wage arrangement that happened two years ago, when you raised a nurse's salary by a gross HUF 10,000, you just canceled the weekend allowance, because you said that this was going to be an uninterruptible job. So also in the hospital where I work, a nurse brought home a net of minus 6,000 forints after their salary arrangement. Now, you don't want any of this wage negotiation, thank you very much, the nurses. So I'm also asking Agnes Cser, not on my behalf, but on behalf of the nurses, to think about what kind of wage negotiations he's sitting down for. You can smile to the union leaders, but you should just think about why a year ago you were whistled out about the nurses' protests. What is the profession you represent in this? It is not perhaps the luxury right that should go into wage negotiations of this kind, but really represent nurses, nurses, hospital staff. But, of course, wages are not the only problem in health care. We know that the lack of resources that hospitals face today is untenable. But I am not the only one talking about this, but you, my fellow Members, are also talking about it in the pro-government benches. Also in the hospital where I work, the cardiology department has 260,000 forints per month available for the purchase of the equipment, 260 thousand forints. I saw Csaba Hende here earlier - he probably spent more on his pleasure trip to Paris than is available in the cardiology department for the purchase of equipment. [[Moore in the pro-government benches.]] In mid-April, in this hospital, they're spending the drug register in May, spending money on drugs. Hospitals in Budapest are in ruins. Their fellow Member Péter Harrach also discussed this here earlier. The walls are crumbling, the toilet drains. And yes, unfortunately, this is your decision and, of course, EU funds can be spent in the countryside, but that does not mean that you cannot provide funds from budgetary resources for the reconstruction of hospitals in Budapest. No tools, no rubber gloves, no sterile tools to perform an operation. According to the news, there's only one anesthetist in Borsod who runs the entire county. One anesthetist. He's been going through hospitals, and all the hospitals in Borsod County are scheduled for surgery so that that one doctor can get into his car and walk through hospitals. I don't think you're aware of that when you're talking about knowing exactly what health problems are. A week ago, I wrote an open letter to Zoltán Balog, and here, before the debate, I gave him a white robe to come with me and see the state of the hospitals in Budapest together. You can make fun of being a nurse, but, you know, they don't make fun of me, they make fun of all the nurses and nurses. We should get out of the blacked-out government cars and go to the hospitals and see what the conditions are. Because from here on the benches, they won't know that. You have to go and see what happens. But let's look at the government's plans for where the priorities are. Forints 100 billion will be spent on health care next year, while Mihály Varga says that just by cutting taxes on the rich again, it will cost the budget 600 billion forints. These are your priorities. Their so-called zero budget will cost hundreds of billion forints. Confess, honourable members of the government. You don't give a damn about the 4 million people who live in Hungary today under the minimum living standards. They're high on millions of people who don't go to elite hospitals like you, who can't go to private clinics like you, who don't get treated in hospitals abroad, like you do. You don't give a rat's ass about anyone who's not one of your friends. Health care is collapsing in front of you, and you're still in the past eight years. Instead of putting 600 billion forints back into health care immediately, you will have an Olympics, a World Water Championship and a nuclear power plant. And it's not a professional decision, it's a political decision. That's your decision. Put 600 billion forints back into health care, and fulfill the Dialog for Hungary's demand that a one-time 20 percent and then a 40 percent immediate wage increase for healthcare workers! Thank you for listening.
u2016-04-26-91	I now give the floor to Congressman Gergely Tapolczai, on behalf of Fidesz.
u2016-04-26-92	[[He makes his comment with the help of a sign language interpreter.]] Thank you very much for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, We all know that health care is an area that walks you from birth to death, from infancy to old age care. It covers a lot of areas. I would like to highlight a slice of this in my speech today. That's the drug supply, the drug issue. Between 2006 and 2010, the then government completely changed the system of direct care to the general public, overcoming patient interests, health aspects and giving investors a great deal of space. On 29 December 2006, a regulation was introduced that led to the risk of the operation of around 600 small-scale rurals by 2010. These little psychics are in a state of bankruptcy in the country. The situation in the supply of medicinal products has deteriorated steadily and the support of the pharmacy has been steadily reduced. In 2010, after the change of government, in the spirit of stabilisation, we stopped this process and reversed it. By transforming the structure, providing efficiency-enhancing resources, we managed to stabilise this system, supporting the operation of the pharmacy. On 1 January 2011, we introduced the regulation, strengthened professionalism and put the pharmacy into the possession of pharmacists. [[14.40]] In the case of new pharmacists, it is only a majority of pharmacists' property. In the case of pharmacists before 2011, the aim was to reach these pharmacists by 2017 and to take them into the majority ownership of pharmacists. We have created the so-called pharmacy fund, which is a loan and capital fund, which also supports the operation of the pharmacy. We have also included new funding elements. For example, the generic incentive, which represents HUF 3.6 billion in annual support. For example, the pharmaceutical service is a HUF 4.5 billion support per year. This is the operating support for small-scale pharmacies, which is an annual grant of HUF 700 million. This only facilitates and facilitates the operation of around 300 drugstores in the countryside and the associated 150 drugstores. These measures have made direct supply of medicinal products to the general public more economical and efficient. Some thoughts, some data on the drugs, too. We all know that about 7.3 million people trigger drugs each year. Of these, 3.3 million people regularly go to the pharmacy, which means that every third person is a regular drug user. Given the health situation of the Hungarian population, medicines related to the most common diseases are high blood pressure, such as cholesterol medicines, diabetes. In addition to other medicines, the fee for the related medicines increased dramatically between 2002 and 2010. There have been medications that have increased by 100 percent during this period. From this point of view, the retail drug burden increased by HUF 60 billion. Of course, it was understandable that this burden had to be reduced in 2010 after the change of government. This has been achieved, mainly with the support of prescription drugs, and between 2012-14 we reduced the fee for 1500 medicines, which means a 10.5 billion HUF reduction in the patient burden. An example: In 2012, the price of the most commonly used antihypertensive drug was about 3000 forints a month, now it means 600 forints. In 2010, the price of a cholesterol-lowering drug was around HUF 2200 a month, now 600 forints, but there are also medicines that cost 200 forints of this circle. Between 2014-16, 760 drug-related reductions were achieved. Usually we have reached a drop of 10-15 percent. In addition, the so-called blind facility we brought in is very important. Every six months, we compete with pharmaceutical companies for medicines with the same active ingredient, in 2012, we achieved HUF 7.5 billion, HUF 2.3 billion and HUF 2 billion in 2014 overall, with a price reduction of HUF 11.7 billion. So this also means that the burden has been reduced. Of course, we supported not only the inclusion of existing medicines, but also the inclusion of new medicines, extending the therapeutic options for patients and making choices. Between 2014-15, around 300 new medicinal products have been placed on the market, including 38 new active substances, supporting patients with new, modern therapeutic options. I also agree that there is still work to be done in the area of health, but it cannot be said that the Fidesz-KDNP faction association and the government are not doing everything they can to address health issues and problems. One more thing to conclude: the health situation is very important for people with disabilities, not only in terms of healing, healing, but also in terms of accessibility. If a doctor or nurse cannot communicate with, for example, a hearing impaired patient, it can be any modern institution, no matter how new the medicine may be, it is more important to have a relationship between the doctor and the patient, communication, and then the rest. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2016-04-26-93	I now give the floor to Mr László Szakács, on behalf of the MSZP.
u2016-04-26-94	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen of the State Secretary. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, This debate today is more like a health-related conference than a political debate day. In addition to hearing strange things, of course, Mr Péter Harrach is asking questions, you are indebted to the answers, my honourable fellow Member, and the Secretary of State for Communication, State Secretary Dömötör, are very well prepared from the government's programme, debates and the minutes of the 2006-10 period. The news to you is that you will survive this day, of course, because this day will pass, but no one will recover from it. It doesn't make patients healthier, and it certainly doesn't make health better. You'd be in a better position from what we've been arguing about for a year, and I'm going to the Secretary of State here, with your predecessor, Gábor Zombor, we've had a lot of disputes. I generally approach these questions from a budgetary point of view, for six months I asked him that the supplier debts, which, when the budget was created, were over 100 billion, were set up by you for 60 billion forints, probably believed that you could put suppliers in a position of power that would be sufficient for 60 billion, and that you could pay 110 out of 60 billion in this respect. It didn't work. You would have given me a loan at the end of the month, since a restructuring would not have followed this payment, but you did not even manage to do so. Then we asked several times how much you owe the nurses for overwork. You have received a lot of written questions about whether you will at all keep track of the excess work, how much extra work is ordered per institution for nurses, and what system and how you will be paid. After we received your answers, which gave us many surprises, but the biggest surprise was that you didn't keep that in mind, then I interpelled your predecessor, Gábor Sombor, who gave a perfectly acceptable answer to that at the time. [[Németh Szilárd István: And did you accept it?]] I didn't accept it because a very small part of his answer dealt with the nurses, and he, too, managed to slip into the past eight years, because it was issued that day's communication order, and he followed it. He promised then, and I regret that I did not accept it, because he would have received much more national publicity, then he promised that the nurses would receive this money by June, last June. [[14.50]] Yet you can calculate it, and you will pay for it by June of last year. Now it's about a year since your predecessor, Secretary of State Sombor, answered my interpellation question, and it'll be another year soon. It's questionable whether you paid for what you owe the nurses. This is important because I have been told that slowly there will be no nurse, there will be no doctor in this country who will, I believe, pay enough money to provide them. You couldn't pay the debts, the nurses, the doctors because it wasn't a priority for you. I'll tell you what your priority is. The EMMI is a huge ministry, and everything from the Wrestling Alliance to the Academy of Sciences needs to be dealt with, and health care is included. The Hungarian state of public life today is well characterised by the fact that there is a separate ministry for propaganda, not for health care. He can't get there, for some reason it's not important enough. But I'll tell you what's important and what's not. We have just heard how important it is to support advocacy organisations for people with disabilities. It was also supported by HUF 149.5 million in 2014 and HUF 83.6 million this year. Fradi, Honvéd, BVSC, MTK, UTE and Vasas - this is six clubs in Budapest - the same Ministry's budget supported it by HUF 5.4 billion. The task of implementing the sports development programmes is to collect what else needs to be done in football over the next period, and this is in the EMMI budget of HUF 12.4 billion, as opposed to, let's say, saying that cancer patients will also receive HUF 20 million from the budget. These are your priorities. If we add that at first we thought it was a typo, that MLSZ received 1.7 billion forints in 2015 and 7.1 forints in 2016, we thought it was a typo, but it wasn't. You spend your money on football, and you don't. I think at least think about how this is your priority list, how you give 32 billion forints to the Rescue Service and give 37 billion to the Hungarian Olympic Association. I think there's a very big difference between the two in terms of responsibilities. Thank you for your attention.
u2016-04-26-95	Thank you. I now give the floor to Secretary of State Zoltán Ónodi-Szűcs.
u2016-04-26-96	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, I would just like to respond in a figurative speech, because I would like to clarify a few facts for the last time. Everyone here is talking about withdrawal, income. I would like to say this again, and it would be good for everyone to start from the same number: the size of the healing-preventing register has not decreased in the last six years, but has grown. The benefits that we call inpatient care or outpatient care, PET/CT register or basic care register, have increased every year, so there is nothing to replace because we have not taken anything out of this register. That's my first statement. It's safe to check for any month. The other is when I was called to see how much the amount of overtime means. After we've been negotiating with the EDDSZ for almost six months now, I'm very well aware of that right now. On average, less than 5 percent of the worker's wage is overpaid and less than 3 percent of the on-call fee is overall. The same for doctors is 9.1 percent on duty and 5.4 percent on overwork. So we can tell you the extent of this. [[Dr. László Kács: Last year they could not describe it.]] He asked me, and I answered. I just want to say that when we talk about wages with people who are talking to us instead of going out on the street, we are talking about specific numbers, and, thank God, I have the authority to do so now, because the Hungarian government will give us a very significant plus next year to raise wages. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the Fidesz ranks.]]
u2016-04-26-97	I now give the floor to Secretary of State Nándor Csepreghy.
u2016-04-26-98	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Members, Ladies and Gentlemen, I have always listened with interest to the opposition's speech, especially to the MSZP. On the day of the educational debate, we were told how much we spend on prevention, but how much we don't spend on education. When we talk about sports, they turn it around when we talk about health care, and then they tell us how to do it in reverse again. They should add up the shortcomings or promises they make and see if the numbers at least come out in summa. I don't think so. However, given the health developments of the past period, the total amount of development in healthcare in Hungary has been HUF 861 billion in recent years. Two significant numbers, which I believe will definitely affect patients and are of paramount importance to them: one is that the machines they provide patients with are their average age. During your administration it was nine years, during our administration it was six years, thanks to the money that we spent significant hundreds of billions of forints on health development. Under your governance, 79 percent of the country, 79 percent of the Hungarian population, was able to save within 15 minutes, if any emergency intervention was required, 90 percent of today. [[There's no hospital after that.]] It is possible to argue about countless results, however, that health projects that were funded before 2010 that were not capable of making effective use of resources where they really are needed have been turned around in the past four years, and that we have been able to guarantee that the quality of healthcare in terms of technical equipment really reaches the EU average and in many cases exceeds it. What means equipment, however, in matters where I think that in the last period prior to 2010, you have only shoveled money outwards from health care through various advisory systems, to take account of this in the government that has tried to restrain most of the contracts you have concluded, to actually provide these money for health purposes, this is two-faced. [[Interviews from the ranks of the MSZP: You've been governing for six years!]] That's a two-faced attitude. [[Interjection from the lines of the MSZP: There is no needle! Zoltán Grimlock: They've been ruling for six years! When was the last time you were in the hospital?]] Congressman, we're going to see you next week on EU debate day. And there, they're gonna tell us the opposite of why we're not spending the money the way you wanted us to. No, because all you've done is take the money out of health care, in some cases you've been brought home, in some cases you've only used it for bad purposes, and in some cases we're actually using it for the purposes of filling the holes that you left between 2002 and 2010. Thank you, Mr. President. [[Applause from the Fidesz ranks.]]
u2016-04-26-99	I now give the floor to Mr István Hollik, on behalf of the KDNP. [[Defiance from the ranks of MSZP and Jobbik. Intercoms from Jobbik's ranks, including, "Let's hear it." The heavy bombing begins!]]
u2016-04-26-100	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Let me have a quick reflection, as Prime Minister Ferenc Gyurcsány has just spoken, and I think many people have missed it in his speech, but I think it was a very important sentence, I think it is also very dangerous, because he said that one of the great lies of Hungarian health is that he is standing on three pillars. One of the pillars is that everyone gets free care; the other is that everyone gets the best care, and the third is that everyone gets the same care. Based on the rules of logic, it follows that if Ferenc Gyurcsány believes that this is a lie, and this system means that everyone should have the same care. [[Zoltán Grimlock: He walks, but he doesn't get it!]] For free and for everyone, it's a lie, and all that follows is that the socialists want to reinstate paid health care. There's no other way. [[Interjections and information from the ranks of the MSZP. Zoltán Grimlock: Where do you go?]] Therefore, I would like to ask with respect, rather than my fellow Member, Mr Gumbling, not to wait and not to speak, but to yell at me, I would like to ask them to make clear that this is the recent brainstorming of former Prime Minister Ferenc Gyurcsány, or you, socialists, with this suggestion that the issue of paying health will crawl back again, you agree. It is important to clarify that. Unfortunately, the problem is that once this idea had gained ground in political life, and by the way, you left it when you gave the SZDSZ control of health care, you made health a waste of your coalition struggle, instead of taking responsibility, and you wouldn't have let free Democrats do business in health care. [[Zoltán Grimlock: We don't make enough money to make you talk so much nonsense!]] I would then like to say that, given the course of the debate so far, I can confirm what my fellow Member, Szilárd Németh, has already said that it is quite clear that the situation in health is not of interest to the opposition; they are only interested in one thing: I would like to attack the government. [[15.00]] They have nothing else to do with this health debate day or with the previous debate day on public education and public education, but that I want to attack the government. Unfortunately, the problem is that they have made today's debate and Hungarian health care a tool for these political interests. [[Zoltán Pride: How much money did Matolcsy give you?]] Nevertheless, we do the right thing by putting what happened between 2002 and 2010 in one pan of the balance sheet and putting the work and results of the last six years into the other pan. In this regard, let me give you a concrete example of my own living environment; I myself come from Nagymaros, one of the most beautiful settlements of the Danube bend and, in terms of hospital care, I come from the town of Vác. Between 2002-2010, János Bóth, the socialist mayor of the city, who was also a member of the Parliament of the socialists, selected the centre of the region's health care, the Jávorszky Ödön Hospital in Vác. Thanks to the operation of Mayor Bóth, it was finally to the point that in 2009 he had had to report himself in violation of accounting discipline, but by then the Jávorszky Ödön Hospital had already accumulated billions of debts, and it was almost possible to close the institution away from the later opportunity to apply. This situation had to be corrected by the Fidesz-KDNP government after 2010. So if we look at health care through the example of the hospital in Vác, this is in one of the pans between 2002 and 2010. On the other hand, the hospital was successful in two major applications after 2010, thanks to a KMOP and a KEOP source, a total development of HUF 3 billion could take place in Vác by the end of 2015. As a result, the institution has become one of the most modern hospitals in Pest county. So once again, bankruptcy and criminal acts are one and three billion HUF development on the other side. If we look at national trends, unfortunately, we are experiencing similar experiences. As Minister Zoltán Balog pointed out, left-wing governments withdrew HUF 650 billion from health care, destroyed 600 pharmacists, while Fidesz-KDNP put HUF 500 billion into health care. If the left had been serious or if he had been serious about improving the health situation during his administration, they would not have made this sector a waste of the coalition power struggle of the MSZP-SZDSZ. Unfortunately, they did, knowing what liberals represent in health policy: the termination of the national risk community, the subversive of the health system, briefly, clearly and intelligibly: business and business. Health care was entrusted to a party that, after its termination, left only a debt, they could not even account for party money, let alone the public funds entrusted to them. In this respect, it is fortunate that the SZDSZ is now only included in the columns and footnotes of the political history survey. And since my fellow Members have spoken about the progress made in recent years, allow me to highlight one of these. We are pleased that the number of graduate medical students has increased by more than half compared to 2010, who are starting to gain experience in Hungary. And it is a special pleasure that thanks to the residency scholarship program, they can now bring home almost 300 thousand HUF on average by supplementing their basic salary. This has finally succeeded in giving a vision and a real, tangible incentive to young people who choose this fine profession. As a result, the number of first-time residents has doubled compared to 2010 and 917 candidates have been trained in the last year. Indeed, as Minister pointed out in his speech that it has been a problem for young residents so far, that if they get out of this residency scheme, their earnings will decrease significantly, since they no longer receive the scholarship. So I am very pleased that the Minister has also pointed out in his exposé that the solution will be found for this problem and that the amount of scholarship will be replaced in some way with these specialists. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause from the pro-government ranks.]]
u2016-04-26-101	I now give the floor to Congressman György Szilágyi, on behalf of Jobbik.
u2016-04-26-102	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, I would only like to respond to István Hollik's speech in one sentence. He said that for the previous government, health was just business and business, as I understand it. You're right, by the way, Congressman. The problem is that, from 2010 onwards, the situation has not changed for the whole of society; unfortunately, for you, the whole country is just business and business. Ladies and gentlemen, There are three real professions in the world who serve the people: one is the priest who cares for our souls, the other is the teacher, who cares for our future through our children, and the third is the doctor who heals our bodies, who saves our lives. We all meet with the workers of these professions every day, the most important supporters and supporters of these three professions in our lives and existence. We have no more proof of their importance than trusting them with our most important treasure, our children's mental and physical health, their future. Healthcare is therefore an essential area that deserves much more respect and respect than it currently is. The government sees the sector as a purely fiscal problem, ignoring the fact that money is the only way to solve most of the problems. Many people talk a lot about operational problems in various forums, and quite a lot of speeches have been made here today, as almost all Hungarian people encounter these problems. However, the visible problems in the operation are only symptoms, but the real causes of the surface, the visible syndrome are not mentioned, and even less measures are taken to eliminate them. It has already been said today, Gábor Vona mentioned that we spend very little on health in international comparison compared to GDP. But it can also be said that a significant proportion of the resources used are wasteful and poorly used. As a result of this, on 30 September 2014, the institution's capital debt to suppliers was HUF 70 billion. They should realise that only fiscal problem-solving attempts will get us nowhere. So even if we spend, the situation will not be resolved, the problems in terms of both operation and financing will continue and will persist. The vicious circle is clearly drawn up, it is not sufficient, but we are spending serious money on a system that is not satisfied either by the majority of the people who work in it or by the majority of those who use the system's services, and the system itself is suffering from a continuous lack of resources, which causes permanent liquidity problems, which makes it impossible to develop and plan for the future. Ladies and gentlemen, This is a system that almost no one can have any interest in maintaining in such an operating system. We need to make a difference. Of course, there are also beneficiaries of this system, in a fashionable way, of the medical barons, but the personal benefits of these individuals are dwarfed by the terrible amounts of money spent on the wrong system. The sector's problems cannot be solved by flogging potential or real beneficiaries, as this is just one piece of a huge set of problems. Real problems need to be identified, financing solutions need to be considered and alternative solutions to be compared in order to find a way out. These tasks should not be solved by doctors, nurses, or patients, but by the top-level administration. The reform of the system is diverse and affects all aspects of our lives. Consider that the ratio of one-day surgery in Hungary is about 6 percent of all interventions, while, let's say, the same rate in the UK is more than 50 percent. It's just a little slice, but it's a good sign that there's still room for improvement. It is commendable, however, that we are debating this important issue here in Parliament, but let us not forget that Parliament is primarily a decision-making body, and decisions can only be made with real information and proper preparation. In the absence of these, only fire-fighting takes place. I note quietly that the operation of the healthcare system is primarily a government task, so the government itself is primarily responsible for the problems, which now outlines different things in words instead of offering solutions. Ladies and gentlemen, The information needed to identify the situation is in the hands of the government. The government may decide on the question of the identity of the managers employed in the system. The professional and personnel capacities needed to find solutions are theoretically available to the government. We can conclude that the key to solving this situation is in the hands of the government. [[15.10]] We have to ask why they don't use this key. One of the possible answers is that the skills and intentions are missing, which is very sad, but it is easy to help, the Jobbik Movement for Hungary is now, as always, happy to provide the government with its expertise and assistance to its colleagues committed to solving the problem, because here the stake is to solve a common case that is in the interests of all Hungarians, so if you need it, take this opportunity! Another possible answer is that, despite all reasonable considerations, the current government is interested in maintaining the present terrible situation, because certain beneficiaries who actually benefit from it are the decision makers themselves. The discovery of the corrupt system operated by Fidesz, the confrontation of people with the facts, is the responsibility of all responsible Hungarians. In any case, the reassuring solution would be to put an end to the current hypocritical system and to establish a genuine national government committed to the Hungarian people. In our view, there will be a change if this country is actually run by a national government. Thank you for listening. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2016-04-26-103	I now give the floor to Congresswoman Gabriella Selmeczi for two minutes.
u2016-04-26-104	Thank you very much. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, One or two statements made by my fellow Members of the opposition which do not cover reality have been made. One such claim is that during the Fidesz-KDNP association, we would have withdrawn money from health care. That's simply not true. I prepared for this charge, so I asked for a statement, which shows that from 2010 onwards the curative-preventive cash register continued to grow, so you can see that from HUF 791 billion in 2010 the plan for 2016 is already HUF 1039.8 billion, so it can be seen in nominal terms that every year the curative-preventive cash register grew. If we look at the size of the register as a proportion of GDP, it should be added that, thanks to economic policy, GDP is increasing, so the register is growing nominally with a growing GDP. The other statement, which does not cover the facts, is that we would have taken money from the drug register. The Secretary of State also said, Mr Ónodi-Szűcs, that there is a year when a layman looks at the drug register, he sees that the register is smaller than the previous year, but the money that is not there is not paid to the pharmaceutical companies. So the so-called blind that the civil government conducted with the pharmaceutical companies, the pharmaceutical companies, has resulted in lower prices for medicines, so fewer subsidies had to be paid to pharmaceutical companies from this register and, in addition to paying less money to pharmaceutical companies, even the fees were reduced. As we said in the exposé, in the comments, hundreds of basic medicinal products have significantly reduced the fee. I would like to ask some of my fellow opposition Members to do one thing, please do not insult the representatives of health professional organisations. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] They can't react, and they can't protect themselves. Let's keep it fair and square. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-04-26-105	It's also for two minutes... Oh, no, sorry, you don't have a chance to tell Gergely Tapoczai for two minutes right now, just in the next round. I now give the floor to Congressman István Happy in a normal time frame.
u2016-04-26-106	Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, The attitude of the socialists to the topic, health care, is well illustrated by the fact that three out of their four speakers spoke, who voted in favour of the visit fee, as well as the closure of hospitals, and the hospital daily allowance, so what Szolzhenitsin said about them is still true to this day. What did Solzhenitsin say? Their cynicism, their impertinence [[Dr. István Józsa intervenes. But insanity in the ranks of the MSZP.]] their hunger for power, their unscrupulousness, their tendency to destroy, their anti-culture and spirit are unimaginable to any other normal, i.e. non-communist man. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties. Dr. István Józsa: Couldn't you learn? Zoltán Grimlock: Sit down! Dr. István Józsa: Learn it already!]] And in order not to be told that they're no longer communists, I suggest you look at the party they're in. Your party is the successor party of the Hungarian Socialist Labour Party [[Zoltán Grimlock: You have more MSZMP!]] and not only did they inherit wealth in 1989, but the fact is that they also inherited its spirituality and inherited what this party had passed through. [[Dr. László Varga: Doctor! But insanity in the ranks of the MSZP.]] Look, if your blood pressure's going up, you should be happy because under our government, the price of blood pressure drugs is down. [[Defiance in Jobbik's ranks.]] So it was a win-win. While you were lifting it, we reduced it. [[Dr. István Józsa: We'll take two quickly! Intercoms and applause in the ranks of the governing parties.]] The thing is, while you're making siren noises about what needs to be done, how good it would be if we changed health care while you destroyed everything. [[Dr. István Józsa: Still left!]] Let's not forget that you introduced the visit fee. [[Defiance in the ranks of MSZP and Jobbik.]] and some of the Members who are shouting here have voted in favour of the visitation fee, voted in favour of the hospital closure, voted in favour of the hospital daily allowance [[Dr. István Józsa intervenes.]] So I think you're a little bit off the hook. [[Interviews from the ranks of the MSZP.]] As Solzhenicin said. And let's not forget what one of their actions meant. Let's just watch the rounds. At the visitation fee, please, there was a pensioner - I experienced during my mayorship - who had to decide whether to buy bread or go to the doctor because he had to pay the visit fee. Then there was this incident, and you may remember that there was a fire in the Stone Mine, classified as the highest grade, in which firefighters were injured, who they refused to provide until the 300 HUF visit fee was paid. [[Zoltán Grimlock: Because he was a fidesz director, that's why! Intercoms from the ruling parties.]] Because you introduced the visitation fee, and you couldn't provide them until then. So you have done only such outrageous things. [[Dr. Gabriella Selmeczi intervenes.]] The thing is, they bought safes instead of buying a ventilator that you missed so much in 2002, instead they bought safes for billions. [[István Gábor Bellozó intervenes.]] They wanted to close the Field Tour hospital, which was supposed to be a hospital just when they were going to close it, for example, the number of births in her obstetrics increased by 6 percent. I think everything proves that you didn't serve the people. And what did we do? The rescue station you left to destroy, and left in inhumane conditions, for example, on Mezőtúr, instead of building a new one. That ambulance you didn't buy for years, that's where we bought an ambulance, we bought an ambulance. We spent nearly 1 billion forints on health institutions in five cities: Kunszentmárton, Martfű, Tiszaföldvár, Törökszentmiklós and Mezőtúr. [[Interjections and clarity in the ranks of Jobbik.]] In addition, in small settlements, such as Tisasas, we renovated the medical office and the instrument. I think this is proof that what you guys pulled out of health care, we made up for it. And why they're fighting so hard now? They're fighting because they want to get back to business. You want paid health care again, you want hospital allowance again. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: That's right!]] And they're trying to get all the money out of health care again. [[Dr. István Józsa: Where did you read this?]] And what does the Jobbik want? Gábor Vona says he's building bridges. I don't know who he's building a bridge with. Between László György Lukács and foreign companies, where doctors are being taken, or among whom? It is clear that Jobbik would like to export Hungarian doctors and medical workers, because that is what they did. [[Lajos Rig: There's a causal link, they're on the run because of you!]] Your representatives exported it. [[Interviews from Jobbik and MSZP.]] In addition, György Szilágyi made it clear that they see business and business throughout society. Gentlemen, this is an open statement that both you and the socialists want paid health care, they want business in all of this, and they do not deal with what would otherwise be the job of Hungarian Members of Parliament. [[Dr. István Józsa intervenes.]] to develop this area [[Intercoms from Jobbik's ranks.]] In order to ensure that the Hungarian people, if they go to a doctor's office, to a hospital, can be cured there, they will receive appropriate care there. Forget that you can turn Hungarian health care into a business! In Hungarian health care there is a service, in Hungarian health care they serve the Hungarian people. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties. György Szilágyi: Teach me, master! Teach me. Intercoms from the opposition.]]
u2016-04-26-107	I now give the floor to notary Nándor Gúr. [[15.20]]
u2016-04-26-108	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, You don't want to go to a doctor or hospital, especially when you see that there's under-funded, unorganised, if any, and, in a sense, overload. Look, not everyone uses a VIP service, like the Fidesz Members and the Secretary of State, so that's probably why they see little of the world. [[Dr. István Józsa pointing to Dr. Ágnes Cser, who is sitting in the box and talking to Péter Harrach and Márius Révész: Look what's going on!]] I have to tell you, if you could get a little insight into what the average salary of people in health care looks like, you'd be ashamed of yourself. They would be ashamed of themselves just because in 2002 it was 71 thousand forints, and then, after four years, in 2006, it was 36 thousand more forints, 107 thousand forints. Then, after another four years, in 2010, it was 122 thousand forints, i.e. it increased by 51 thousand forints in those eight years. It increased by 19 thousand forints between 2010 and 14. By the way, if we were to count down to today's value, that would be worth 67 thousand forints. In English, you almost don't do anything, almost don't give people anything. I'm telling you once again, you don't have to look at the VIP services that you're receiving, you're looking at the services that come to people who live their everyday lives. In the meantime, the cafetheria was not paid for by health professionals. Eger - familiar, isn't it? - Markhot Ferenc Hospital. But there is much more to talk about, the issue of on-call allowances, or even the question of gratuity, the question of waiting lists. You know, a CT 2-10 week. Yeah, you don't know? How would they know? ! [[Péter Cseresnyés: You're bad for an actor!]] You know, or you should know, if you look into it, an MRI is 2-6 months. Yeah, not for you. Oh, yeah - well, then it's okay. So the question is, do you ever want to face up to the question of how and how the average person can use the services? The transparency of health insurance has been abolished, an unfair social distribution has been launched, even access to health services in complexly disadvantaged areas is much worse. That's what should be changed. That's what you should be taking the lead in. To move forward in hygienic matters, so that hospital infections don't lead more people to death than road accidents. That a quarter of the infections that come up in hospitals lead to death. Don't let that happen. In order to prevent the 60-70 percent of infections that could be prevented. And to change the shortage of professionals, there should be no shortage of professionals. The average number of nurses in Hungary should be 8-8,5 nurses. It's about preventing emigration. In order not to be underfunded, unorganised, and overloaded in health care; so that the doctor does not have to administer it, but heal it. In order to ensure that 912 people do not apply for an official certificate to work abroad in the first half of 2015, and not to have a doctor above 520. They should not ask for nearly 2,000 official certificates all year round. And in taking into account and taking into account, for example, what the various trade unions have to say, as an example, the Independent Health Trade Union. Equality in health care is a type of proportionate public burden that is normal! Employees should be subject to an interest-rate control over the resources of the Health Fund's payments. That's what you should be leading in. In being rested health workers, do not be overwhelmed, because the possibility of making mistakes is much greater. On the European Union stage, i.e. on the stage of health care, these workers, who do their work at home, reach on average 60% of their wages in line with the demands of the trade union. You're supposed to be a top rider in this. And to finally create a ministry that is a technical department, and not in the framework of a large, monumental ministry, trying to do something for the cause. And you know what else? For example, in less-favoured counties, transport debts and public sector debts should not be such as Borsod-Abaúj-Zemplén County, where, according to the Minister of State for Transport debts, the State Secretary, who is now sitting here, said that the Secretary of State wanted to deal with health and wish to declare that they were in the order of HUF 3 billion in January last year only in Borsod-Abaúj-Zemplén County, and that they belong to the public sector for hundreds of millions. Anyway, you've become discredited in this matter. Many things will not be done in the next two years, but at least do no more harm. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2016-04-26-109	I now give the floor to Secretary of State Zoltán Ónodi-Szűcs.
u2016-04-26-110	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, I would like to decode what is important about this beautiful wordflower, and I would like to respond to it, because I would like to continue to represent the facts. Here again, we tried to scare the public with waiting lists and stuff. It was this government that dared to face this problem that no government had previously assessed the number of people in Hungary awaiting any intervention. It was this government that dared to do so by counting the number of inhabitants of Hungary who are waiting for some surgery. When that happened, 77,000 people were waiting for surgery on this waiting list. Today, this number is 34,000. And I'd like to ask you all to judge whether it's too much or not. In the surgical session for which the waiting list is required today, more than 200,000 surgeries are taking place in Hungary today, which means that less than one fifth of the total annual capacity is on the waiting list. I say to you that many of Europe's countries would be proud to be able to produce such numbers. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the Fidesz ranks.]]
u2016-04-26-111	It is now for Congressman Bence Rétvári, on behalf of the KDNP.
u2016-04-26-112	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, For the pre-2010 period, probably, if we want to summarize briefly what is at the heart of all vectors about what was born in health care, we can give a very simple answer to that, and that is business, money, profit. This is the underlying goal, which can be seen behind almost all measures or behind neglect, and this is one of the historical crimes of the Hungarian Socialist Party that allowed this liberal, SZDSZ health attitude, which provides a high-quality, expensive service to a few and does not deal with others, this could have been the Hungarian state's policy for eight years. After all, if you look at not only the daily amount of the visit fee and the hospital daily allowance, but also the entire philosophy on which it was built, this shows that this is a clear kick-off of the former solidarity-based social security system. Because the philosophical basis of the previous system, the social consensus basis, was that everyone pays social security contributions for their own salary, and then, in this risk community, everyone is provided on the basis of these social security contributions. He broke this basic principle, would have kicked it if they had been able to introduce the visit fee and the daily allowance, if it had not been prevented by the referendum, because from then on they would not have been a community of risks, they would not have been thinking about a national community of fate, but rather in buying a unique service: those who are healthy do not have to pay for it, who are sick, should not have to pay for it. The solidarity principle would have been removed, or at least in the background of the principle of buying services, and this would have resulted in a decades-old or centuries-old common agreement, joint agreement, social security principle or the principle of public services providing the highest possible level of public service to as many people as possible, not only in health care but also in the organisation of the entire public service. And we could also see the same intention to break the payoff, solidarity principle, when either hospitals, institutions for HospInvest, or a full insurance fund for the multi-insurance system, whether in the area of pensions, or in the area of health care, or where they could do part of their privatisation. That these money, which are very big money, is in the pension fund [[Dr. István Józsa: You would spend it!]] The biggest money in every country is in the health fund, in the social security funds, where the largest investment speculation operations can be carried out with the funds in the cash boxes, get out of the government or out of the public sector, out of the authority of the municipalities, and transfer to private service providers. And in the same way, hospitals, which obviously have a huge budget total, because in health care, very expensive instruments have to be purchased, they have very expensive maintenance, these devices are consumables, they need to be constantly replaced, social security finances them at unit cost. [[15.30]] So it's a predictable, secure market, and if you approach liberals from a market point of view, you don't have to fight for demand, because everyone gets sick, you'll have such a service, and you'll buy these services from them. It is also one of the foundations of these on the part of the state if it constantly underfinances health care, if it keeps hospitals in a bad condition, if it does not effectively devote development resources to health, because the government can show in the four to five years' time that the hospitals are in a bad state, the state is the worst farmer, so we privatise these institutions, because they will be able to maintain them more effectively under market conditions, based on market logic. During the years of socialist-liberal governance, we went through this beautifully, we could listen to them, until, in Eger's case, a hospital or two had been privatized in rather memorable and non-violence-free conditions, which after 2010 had to be taken back into custody by the state, and it had to be saved from the near-fall situation in which the unpaid bills or the machines taken from hospitals sent hospitals. This situation welcomed patients, doctors and representatives of maintenance organisations, municipalities or the state coming in after 2010. It was a period of such commercialisation, such a privatisation and such withdrawal, since the withdrawal of funds could prepare privatisation, and the privatisation could bring about a good deal, and good business would bring profits into private pockets. This is the direction in which Hungary started after 2002, and this is the direction that the government had to reverse after 2010. That is why it was important to maintain a state institution, because this ensures - and I don't know if anyone can say anything about what other means it can be done - that territorial differences are balanced and that the news is not about poor hospitals and bad conditions of poor county or poor urban authorities, and that they provide better care for patients in a settlement with a higher business tax. In order to eliminate these territorial differences, apart from the state reserve represented by the ÁEEK, we could not see any other solution and others did not provide any other solution. This is the strategic path that the government took when it said already in 2008 that health was not a business, and it represented it in the referendum, and it still represents it in its governance, confirming the principle of solidarity. This, of course, does not mean, as Mr Ónodi said, that every year since 2010, the source of the health fund has increased more than the level of inflation, that health diseases would disappear from one moment to the next. However, it means that the government has been trying to cure health problems with some kind of cure since 2010. Let me take a few of these in the next few minutes. One was the withdrawal that had to be reversed. Here we can mention development resources, which have been greater than ever in recent generations. Perhaps in the Korányi-Markusovszky era there was a similar scale of large hospital development when the red brick and pavilion buildings known to many were built, but there was no other period like this. However, the financing of curative prevention benefits in proportion to GDP rose from below 3 per cent to above 3 per cent while GDP also increased. With regard to low wages, we have already said many times today, but I think it is not enough to say that health is obviously an area where, if you look at the levels of wages in the different sectors of the national economy, health needs to be improved within that. Therefore, in 2012-13, the government spent HUF 75 billion on raising the wages of 95 thousand health workers by an average of 23 percent, then we continued with a similar increase in mobile wage elements in the second half of last year, and this year for HUF 12.8 billion in the whole year. And maybe that's what's bothering the most people today, and most people care about how it's gonna go on. It was also mentioned in the expozee, and in recent weeks everyone has heard that the government has launched a consultation with health organizations, the Medical Chamber, the Health Workers' Union, the workers' organization and the Hospital Association - and later with other organizations. The first two negotiations took place last week, and the next meeting will take place tomorrow, where we will look for the solution that the 100 billion or more than 100 billion surplus generated by the Hungarian economy as a result of the Hungarian reforms and as a surplus in the budget will be distributed within this number between the long-term wage increase of nurses, the long-term wage increase of doctors and other hospital expenses, what is the internal ratio, which is the most optimal in relation to the surplus. There have been few situations in Hungary's history in recent governments when education was an additional resource - nearly 100 billion in the amount that we can use as an additional resource for the maintenance and operation of schools - in the social sector there are also some additional resources, and there will be additional resources for families in the following year, either by further increasing family taxation or by reducing VAT, if we look at them on the expenditure and revenue side. However, the greatest increase in health will be compared to the previous year's resources, as the amount here is likely to be over HUF 100 billion, which will be evident here in Parliament at the beginning and mid-June when the budget is adopted, and will be published in the Hungarian Gazette. So there wasn't much of a time when we could have an economic performance behind us, a good six-year economic policy that would allow us to talk about the internal share of surplus resources in all welfare sectors. This is also an opportunity for certain changes in health care, in the care system and in many other places where it has always been the lack of resources or the declining budget that has affected decisions. Now we don't need anyone, not in the health sector, to be influenced by a declining budget. This does not, of course, mean that on 1 January 2017 we feel that we have broken through the target line, but it is exemplary for the past government periods to provide additional resources. [[Dr. István Józsa: This is real self-acknowledgment!]] We hope that we will also be able to benefit from this support from opposition parties, if we could not do so in relation to previous wage increases. And we also hope that this is already a huge additional resource in health care, and a multi-annual programme will be behind it in the course of government cooperation with industry actors, which will make everyone feel that they can make another move in 17 and 18 and who knows where the negotiations will go next year. If we take into account previous medical conditions that we have tried to find new medicines, we can also look at medical supplies that are stalling. This is a question that has always been raised in Hungary, but the migration of doctors on 1 May 2004 is obviously an even bigger problem since the accession of the European Union, since not only the former brain drain has occurred, but the free internal labour market of the European Union has made it even easier for Hungarian nurses, Hungarian doctors, as well as everyone else. That's why the government had to come up with a series of measures to stop this process. Doctors with the most mobility must be the younger doctors, who, on the one hand, are more easily able to move abroad because of their living situation, their living conditions, their language skills, and their modern knowledge, because they know the language, and they do not yet have children or similar relatives who would prefer to stay here. So they were the most mobile. That's why they had to deal most with this kind of problem, this kind of medical disease. That is why we launched the residency support programme involving 3,500 young people. Who knows how many of these 3,500 young people would have stayed home if it hadn't been for this program. We spent 6 billion forints on this. And we can say that this programme is a success, because if we look at the increase in the number of scholarships between 2011 and 2016, we can see that the number of young residents included in the residency support programme has increased by 31.6 percent. [[15.40]] If we look at the numbers further with emigration doctors, we can see that while the number of people who asked for a certificate to work abroad was 845 in 2010, by now, 492, the number of doctors who applied for a permit to work abroad was almost halved by 2015 as Hungarian citizens. If you compare the numbers of people participating in the residency support program, if you look at how much the number of people applying for a foreign employment permit has decreased, and you add the number of young starter doctors five years ago and there is now, then there was about 420 numbers, almost 480 numbers, and now 920 numbers of people starting their professional years as young - well, you can see that there is a doubling in the case of medical replacements. Obviously, there are still doctors asking for permission to work abroad. Obviously, there are those who have already gone there and are still abroad, but there has not been a trend in previous years, before 2010, that could have shown some positive results against the constantly expanding foreign march and the constantly declining home medical number. The following illness, after a lack of doctors, which the government has managed to reverse in its tendency, is not by accident, but by targeted measures, hospital indebtedness. Data on this have already been mentioned here, but let me draw attention to the fact that 60 billion forints was the amount that the government used to settle these hospital debts at the beginning of last year. In the case of swollen waiting lists, that is exactly what Mr Secretary of State was saying to me, that the previous government did not even have the courage to introduce a waiting list register. Fidesz-KDNP introduced this, it was not afraid of it, because it knew that if it did not face the problem, it could not handle the problem. Therefore, by 2012, there were 77 thousand people on the waiting list, and now the 34 thousand, which, as we looked at, in proportion to about 200,000 surgeries a year, is a monthly and a half surgical capacity, and that is the number of people on the waiting list, but it may be that many people who are obviously not going into hospitals overnight, but who also make appointments for later beds. So it's shrinking to a manageable extent. What we were aiming for was 3 and 6 months for smaller and larger surgeries to be the waiting time, and we hope that we can achieve this on average. And at the end of last year, I think we've seen something that we haven't seen since the change of regime in Hungary, that hospitals themselves on the website of the Hospital Association have brought to the attention of patients that if they don't get an appointment for hip replacement surgery or an appointment for cataract surgery, then which is the other hospital where they're taking care of it, and obviously we've paid the travel expenses 10 percent of the total cost to make sure that someone, obviously, if they have to go from one county of the country to another county, can be treated there, and we'll also cover the extra cost of it, so that nationwide waiting lists can decrease. In 2013, we spent 786 million forints, 431 million in August 14, 1 billion forints at the end of the year 14 and 5 billion forints in 15. This total amount is 7.2 billion forints, and if you add the 16 billion forints, it is 12.2 billion forints, thus reducing the number of waiting lists from 70,000 to 34 thousand forints. And obviously we'd like to continue this later. Infrastructure and hospital facilities, which are in ever worse condition, are another issue that has been and have been very alarming to patients during the past period, since we have seen worse and worse conditions in many, many hospitals. Compared to this, we tried to show development results, renovated or developed 71 hospitals, built 23 new clinics, renovated 54 clinics, built 27 new rescue stations, and still under construction. 85 rescue stations have been renovated, 30 more are planned every year from 2017 and 467 new ambulances have been acquired. We had to get it here at double speed, because in the last few years, the socialists forgot - and I quote, they forgot - the purchase of ambulances. The ambulances were missing, but this was not an accident either, because market-based patient transport and purchase of services were able to create a market, because if there was no ambulance, they had to buy it from the market and make a business out of health care. [[Dr. István Józsa intervenes.]] If you look at the items of the large HUF 500 billion development, you can see that there were 322 billion forints of hospital infrastructure, and 104.6 billion forints for hospital equipment and instruments. Forints 50 billion were allocated to outpatient care, 40 outpatient clinics were developed, 23 new outpatient clinics were set up and 9 hospitals were developed to convert active care. Forint 13,8 billion forints for health sector IT development, 13 billion forints for the development and improvement of infrastructure conditions in primary care, a third of which supported the 33 most disadvantaged small regions. 12 billion HUF for the development of hospital emergency care, 11 billion for the development of emergency stations, 9 billion forints for the replacement of CT, MRI and X-ray equipment, to which we were able to use additional resources at the end of last year, 5 billion forints for children's emergency, 3 billion forints for the development of blood supply centers. From 1.9 billion forints we were able to upgrade three health institutions, Semmelweis University, Flór Ferenc Hospital and Heim Pál Hospital. Those who now pass by Paul Heim will not recognize it from the outside, and the developments will continue, about which the Secretary of State held yesterday at the press conference on the spot. And 900 million forints, 806 million forints for the possibility of lung transplantation to the world-class hybrid surgery of the Heart Clinic in Városmajor, as it is very important that more people can perform world-class surgeries in Hungary, as well as 100 million forints for oncological care at the Unified St. Stephen and St. László Hospital. [[Interruption from the ranks of the MSZP.]] And I could still list our goals for the development of nursing homes and other future goals, the credit of which is precisely determined by the development of the previous period. My fellow Members will not be able to say a period of time since you are politicalising or recalling here, not even your older veterans, when we would have been talking about so many health improvements in five years. [[Zoltán Haughty interrupts.]] The following illness, which has to be treated or treated, is obviously the condition of hospitals in Budapest. It was said here that the government would soon decide that. This year there is a billion HUF budget line for the preparation of the development. Obviously, this should be based primarily on national resources. The problem with basic care is old, it has been said for a long time that GPs are getting older and 315 of the 6574 GP practice have remained unfilled at the highest time. For this reason, over the past period, we provide 40 percent more money for basic care compared to 2010, with almost one and a half times as much money for basic care as we did five years ago. I would mention the asset financing aid of HUF 12.7 billion or even a maximum of one and a half million per practice. Forint 10 billion is the plus that we try to make up for the basic care budget every year. Today, a general practitioner can expect a 35 percent higher funding fee than he did five years ago for his own practice. We launched the settlement application in cases where a practice has been vacant for at least 12 months. Here for this purpose, 500 million forints is available this year, between 6 million and 10 million forints net, the amount that a general practitioner receives without a refund obligation, i.e. as a non-refundable grant, if he spends exactly a practice where a thousand patients have been unattended for a year, or are obviously supplied by a neighboring family doctor, but there are no doctors or 500 children in the practice alone. Similarly, we provide support for the purchase of the right to practice, with a budget of HUF 250 million and a maximum grant of HUF 4 million. These are grants. And if we add 4 million forints to the purchase of the practice, 6-10 million forints to any cost of establishment, obviously these are non-refundable subsidies, and besides, we also see 35 percent more of a general practitioner now farming per month than five years ago, then they can be a cure for the problems that have occurred in health care for generations. So I think that, in terms of basic care, the many results of the last five years have been important to make the GP attractive and to support establishment. We have also taken measures not only in terms of money but also in terms of the bad public health situation. The WHO, the World Health Organization, has also given the Prime Minister one of the highest awards in the fight against smoking. I have also met the secretary-general, as she has often said, other governments and other prime ministers are just talking about the fight against smoking, but Hungary is brave enough to act, which is why we have received the WHO's high level of recognition. [[15.50]] With the introduction of the tweezers, I believe that we have brought a novum that is being watched and taken over by other countries in Europe. With complex public health screenings, we have spent hundreds of millions of amounts from the E Fund already in the previous period, and our next goal is to extend colon screenings nationwide. Here, the entire development and public health screening programme covers more than HUF 6.5 billion. For patients suspected of cancer, diagnostic testing will be provided within 14 days. In the field of pharmacy, the sector's professional approach to liberalisation and financial perspective has already emerged here. We have strengthened the funding system for the supply of medicines to small settlements, 330 small hospitals and 150 branch drugstores receive 700 million forints a year. I think people in the countryside, in small towns, feel the best way to help. There was an increase in patient burden in the drug register as well. As a result of the introduction of the vaccine, both patients will have to pay less and the entire taxpayer community will have to pay less. The fact that this was introduced in autumn 2011 meant 7.5 billion in the first year and 2.5 billion in the first year, an additional 1 billion in 2014, a reduction in the burden of 10-12 billion patients. In 2011, as has already been said today, the remuneration of 311 products decreased by an average of 9.7 percent, which the patients no longer have to pay, and it also decreased in April this year, and last year, the reduction in drug prices was on average 9.7 percent for 390 products per year, i.e. almost 10 percent again. We're trying to take action on hospital infections. Data provision is much wider in Hungary than in other countries, and data are obviously better only in countries where data are not fully provided. We have also tried to develop psychiatric care, with a HUF 11 billion development, of which HUF 6 billion is intended for the development of children's and youth psychiatric, addictological and mental health care and HUF 5 billion for active inpatient care. So we tried to move forward with almost every disease. I can also mention the Rescue Service, where we have already talked about how many new ambulances have to be bought, and we are trying to ensure the safety and better care of patients in all areas, to build a real, sparing health care system that provides everyone with the highest possible standard of care. I trust that we will succeed in the most important question of the coming weeks and months, which is of interest to most people in health care, and obviously also accept a multi-annual, long-term joint programme with sectoral stakeholders on the low pay of doctors and nurses, which also means stability and security for everyone in this area, and continue with improvements similar to those in previous years. This is how we can put back into health the resources that have been taken away by the socialists, which we can use instead of privatization in a risk community, helping each other to pursue health policy without breaking the principle of solidarity, so that health is not a business, but more accessible and developed than in the previous period. Thank you so much for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-04-26-113	I now give the floor to Congressman Sebestyén Cutter, on behalf of Jobbik.
u2016-04-26-114	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, During the real national consultation, even visiting general practitioners, pediatricians, hospital directors, I also encounter the problems that have been said here by my opposition colleagues in particular. I hear something a little different than what we hear from pro-government benches or even undersecretaries of state. What are the main problems other than the financial and wage situation of health workers, which is one of the most pressing problems that many people have already said? The shortage of professionals that they are struggling with is the ageing of the general medical profession, the replacement of out-of-work GPs, retired GPs. These are the problems they can't really deal with. But we have heard many other examples. In their speeches, the Secretary-General mentioned the extent to which the waiting lists have decreased. But why did the waiting lists drop? It's not because the reason for the waiting lists has been removed. There were no more O.R.s, no more specialists, no more tools in the system, but why they were reduced: for example, what they were complaining about were hospital workers, that the system that planned scheduled surgeries were performed at the time of duty, they were solved. Of course, this has multiplied the time when these surgeries can be performed, but there is only a professional risk and a human risk, because healthcare, which is already overloaded and incompetent, has been even more burdened. There is a second problem, which has been mentioned by many, which is the transfer of chronic beds, the transfer of care classes to social administration. Of course, I know that legislation will come soon, and we will be able to see what form this will take, and I would just like to raise a few questions. One of my main questions is who will be the employees, who will do the work there. Do you believe that the same population of people will continue to operate that system and that the same people will actually keep these classes as employees? 'Cause this might not work. Why won't it work? It will not work because the workers in health care may be very underfunded, and I would use ridiculously - rather a different word: sadly - their wages are low, but if we look at how social sector workers earn compared to this, they will earn 22 percent less in the social sector than in this terrible state. Do you think it's possible that nurses or even hospital staff who work in these departments, and then whistling, cheerfully, singing happily, will go to social services and earn 22 percent less? How are they gonna do that? If they don't, how are they gonna find the human resources they need? How are you going to fill that part of the institution with employees? There are even technical problems. We see what problems there are in a transformation, whether in setting up child welfare centers - if I can set an example of my own territory - we see how the transformation is going; they argue that there is a room that is not a site now. What will they do when there will be parts of buildings or buildings within the fences and walls of a hospital, which will be now not covered by health care, but by social administration? How will they resolve this if they cannot overcome it in a much clearer structure, how will they do so in such a situation, how will this work? And then we didn't even talk about such small professional things as I have mentioned for a long time, that there is no consultation between sectors, that there is no talk between the social care system and the participants in the health care system. If there is a dialogue and it can be directed from above, especially now, which I think is wrong, they are under a ministry, but if they are already under a ministry, then we should also take advantage of it. The consultation should develop, and it will be much easier to work with people in both social and health care if they discuss and discuss the problems of common clients or even the problems of common areas. What I have mentioned in many debates, which overlaps between the two fields of expertise, social and health, is the situation of doctors working in nursing homes. We know very well that it is mandatory to employ a full-time general practitioner in residential institutions above 200 people above a certain number of people. I ask you, if you take into account the previous example of the outsourcing of chronic beds, which one is the general doctor who will go to a workplace where, although there will be fewer patients, there will be fewer people, but you will still have to do a much tougher job - who has been to the nursing home, who knows what I am talking about - on the basis of the civil servant payroll. Which one's the general doctor who's gonna do this? Many nursing homes have this problem that they simply can't find a doctor to take on this task. That is why I have been saying for a long time that the government should develop the possibility of special practice, which would provide doctors with an opportunity to do so, not on the basis of a public wage bill, but on the basis of a normal medical wage system, even in the homes of the elderly, and this problem will be solved. While Secretary of State Sombor was the Secretary of State, he thought it was a good idea, said that it would be considered and likely steps to be taken. And for the profession, it's just unfortunate that Mr. Secretary of State Sombor was soon replaced. [[16.00]] I would very much like to know what the new Secretary of State thinks of this problem, because it is also a matter of urgency that needs to be resolved, because not only the GPs, but also, unfortunately, the residential social institutions will be left without a GP. Thank you very much. [[It's a rare applause in the ranks of the Jobbik.]]
u2016-04-26-115	I now give the floor to Congressman Bence Rétvári.
u2016-04-26-116	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, When I hear Jobbik say that Jobbik is launching a real national consultation in health care, I always think about Chinese market vendors: it's a real brand, it's not fake, it's real. Then you have to prove something and write it that it's real, that if it's so obvious that it's not real, it's got to be written out in big letters that it's real. Obviously, Jobbik is trying to do something, like the national consultation. I don't want to give you any advice, but if you write out that you're respected voters, this is the real consultation, and when the Fidesz-KDNP consults 1 million people, and more than 1 million, up to 1.5 million, that's not a real consultation, but when the good guys hold a local meeting or go to one or two institutions, that's the real consultation. In my opinion, the real label always shows that this really needs to be explained so much that it has to be written out that it is real, as it should be stated, that this is better than the original one, the Chinese market vendors. [[István Jakab, vice-president of the Parliament takes the chair.]] Which, on the other hand, concerns a serious part of your claim to nursing homes. What you have requested in part, honourable Member, is a comprehensive professional dialogue on this, perhaps if you have been watching the news, this has come to a very important step last week exactly. For what we are using is precisely that the areas that are affected by this, not only by health, not only by social policy, but also by family affairs, by caring for the elderly, by elderly people in families, have now come up at a joint conference organised by the EMMI, where not only sectoral leaders, but also trade union leaders, representatives of the profession, institutional leaders, have all been able to speak. Obviously, we also encouraged them to give their views on this either in professional journals or elsewhere, since the government made its intentions clear. Mr Ónodi, State Secretary, said that when he announced his five points after he took office, he had already given his ideas to hospital directors and others in professional circles. So what you're asking for is still in the process. If you would express your opinion not only here in Parliament on a political basis but also on a professional basis, I think everyone is looking forward to doing the same for you. It has been explained why this is important, why it is important that the number of days spent in hospital in Hungary is much higher than in other developed countries like us, and the number of days spent on chronic beds is even higher, much higher than the number of days spent on normal hospital beds. Here we touch this issue, because in an ageing society, which will still characterize the coming years and decades in Hungary, they must be seen in its trend, and obviously we need to think ahead. That is why this type of care must also be transformed in some way in the coming times. Like I said before, it's not because the resources would drop anywhere. Thank God, everywhere with some, there are places where we can talk about less, but increasing resources, because no one in this circle can worry about the end of a withdrawal. No, we can build a much better and long-term sustainable system from expanding sources. Thank you very much. [[It's a rare round of applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-04-26-117	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Welcome, fellow Members. Dear Parliament, We now have two-minute speeches. First, I give the floor to Congressman Gergely Tapolczai, Fidesz Group. Congressman, please.
u2016-04-26-118	[[He makes his comment with the help of a sign language interpreter.]] Thank you for the floor. I wanted to apply for a comment in the previous round, but I just got the floor. My comment is not directly related to the subject, but I would also like to clarify or correct and disprove a sentence by my fellow Member László Szakács. In 2015, it was not the advocacy organisations of the disabled that received less support than in 2014, but the programmes to create opportunities for people with disabilities were indeed lower. However, I would add that more advocacy organisations have received support than in previous years. For example, the Anna Dévény Foundation, the Demosthenes Foundation, the Handlocked Foundation, the Aphazia Foundation, the Psychiatric Interests Forum. Therefore, these organisations have received targeted support from this year as new organisations. In the same way, these organisations deal with programmes to create professional opportunities, and we support these programmes. It should not be forgotten that in 2009, it reduced the support of national advocacy organisations for people with disabilities by half, a third, and two thirds of the government at that time. That's what I wanted to add. Thank you for your attention. [[It's a rare round of applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-04-26-119	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, We have a two-minute window to speak on, Mr Rig Lajos, Jobbik Group. You have the floor.
u2016-04-26-120	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. I didn't think I would have to say two minutes, but as Mr Secretary of State said, we have a real national consultation and Chinese methods of operating here between doctors and nurses and trade unions, I must reject that. Now you've classified 22 GPs as "bovli," including pediatricians, who took part in an invitation and not a party event in my constituency two weeks ago. In their name, too, I must refuse. However, while we are at the real national consultation and we are trying to tell people the facts, I would recommend to my fellow Member that he go to Mezőtúr's rescue station within the framework of a real national consultation and look at the case and ambulance they have received there. [[Happy István: Very good.]] Very good... they didn't get any. I'll tell you what, they've got a mobile medical car on the level of an ambulance. There's a very big difference between them. So on the moving medical car, there's a doctor, a nurse, and a transport car goes out with him. But they didn't get an Ambulance or an Ambulance. I believe you're happy about it, but first you have to look at it within the framework of the real national consultation. [[An intervention from the Fidesz ranks.]] And then you don't say-- Latent right, I know, but there's no room here for you now. On the other hand, Secretary of State Csepreghy also gave us data on the 15-minute arrival that the ambulance service had already passed. After all, they themselves told us that we have to give up the fact that the rescue unit will arrive at each location within 15 minutes. It may arrive by way of a journey, but it is impossible today in Hungary. So if we're talking about facts, we're really saying it the way it really is, and we're not trying to distort it. It is also an interesting fact when they say that within the framework of the sanitary privatisation, HospInvest Kft. which hospitals are privatized, interestingly left out on the other side, Medisys Kft. for some reason. I'll tell you later, it's gonna hurt a little bit, so don't sit back. Thank you. [[It's a rare applause in the ranks of the Jobbik.]]
u2016-04-26-121	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, We are now at the end of the two-minute speeches. I give the floor to Congressman Sándor Kovács, Fidesz Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2016-04-26-122	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, I will say it slowly so that everyone understands that there will be no gas price rise," said Ildikó Lendvai. MSZP does not pay for health care, MSZP does not sell hospitals," said Mária Vojnik. In the time of Lajos Molnár, the funded hospital beds were significantly reduced. You tell us not to go eight years. Where should we go when you want to be in power, and we must tell you what the Hungarian society you want to represent can expect from you? You applauded Ference Gyurcsány recently, who once again said that he wanted to make health care pay. You, ladies and gentlemen, are the ones who have withdrawn 650 billion from health care, closed hospitals, put dozens and hundreds of healthcare workers on the streets. You see business in patient care, you can only promise until the end of election campaigns, and the Fidesz government, which, after all, develops with its slow and thoughtful policy, will put back all that you have taken out of this health care, and you accuse it of all kinds of inconclusiveness. You, who shut down the National Psychiatric Institute, the Children's Hospital in Svábhegy, the Schöpf-Merei Ágost Hospital, have indebted almost 130 billion forints to the health institutions that had to be consolidated, and I know how many ten billion from my age as county council vice president. [[16.10]] In the county of Szabolcs-Szatmár-Bereg, which we now forget about the bad ones, and let's talk a little bit about the good, where there have been tens of billions of improvements in the past period, where we have only turned the scattered hospital in Nyíregyháza into a block hospital for 15 billion, where we have made an outstanding child emergency department, a helicopter landing. But even in a settlement of the White-Girmat type, this government expanded its medical service with a helicopter landing track and an emergency department. In order to create equal opportunities, the development policy of this government has enabled people living there to obtain health services at European level in the 33 most disadvantaged areas that have already been said many times, including in my constituency, unlike you, who have destroyed health care. But let me also talk about the development in Mátészalka, where a complete medical block of more than 100 beds was renewed, where people can walk in a European-class corridor, where we spent more than 600 million forints on MRI devices. This government wants to take care of people, with the right numbers in budgetary policy, and the social policy needs that you are now dealing with health through confusion and hysteria, just like education policy. I resent it on behalf of the government, and I think that we want to provide a well-functioning health care service at European level for all people, all Hungarian citizens, within a reasonable period of time. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-04-26-123	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr Zoltán Gőgös, MSZP Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2016-04-26-124	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, As I sat through this debate, I can see that Árpád Habony may have had a serious headache by trying through you to get people to focus on health problems, not on the present, but on the past. You didn't mention the problems of the present, but to the end, I'm not saying that it's been eight years, because it's six of yours... so from now on, we should also deal with what you've done to this sector for six years. I would like to say to the two secretary-general, because they are here, and here they are very proud to say how the waiting lists have fallen; let me share a recent experience with you, that if you do not know this; if you do not know, then there is a big problem. It's not a waiting list. It's a schedule list. Do you know what this means, fellow Members? [[Dr. Agnes Molnár: We know!]] That, for example, a patient in Szentes had an appointment on March 1 to go in at the end of April - the 26th - then they would tell him when they were going to operate. [[Dr. Gabriella Selmeczi: Wrong!]] He wasn't given the time when he was in surgery, he was given an intermediate date. He went in at 8:00 a.m., he was told I was sorry, but the time he would have had at 7:30 was already full, so he'll be back at the end of August for another appointment, so I'll say it again: not for a surgical appointment, but for an appointment. So, Mr. Secretary of State, if you don't know about this, you need to look into this urgently, because from now on, what you're lying to the people through statistics is a terrible mistake, because I'm guessing hospitals don't have the guts to describe reality, so you're playing the trick of trying to deal with this problem. Look, at the union's call, not a lot of people, but some of us applied and went to volunteer work. Those of us who grew up in a three-generational family and lived in a village with our elderly relatives did not have such a big problem, including me, because what had to be done in this helpful task, let's say, in an active internal medicine, is usually solved within the house in a rural family at home. Obviously, it's different, you can't force anyone to do this job, there's a problem, but I don't think it's the family's job in the first place. However, I would like to tell you that with this human resources situation, which is currently in Hungarian hospitals, there is a huge problem. Underpaid, a lot of overtime and a lot of other private nurses suffer every day, and you're talking about how everything's okay here. Come on, fellow Members. Come with me, let's make a deal, I'll do the same thing to any one of you for two days or three days, which I've been through, believe me, they'll change their minds about this profession. Because they're just talking about things you see very, very far away. This isn't Honvéd Hospital, my dear friends. This isn't the Honvéd Hospital, it's the half-active internal medicine, it's the ones you need to go to, Mr. Secretary, and there you have to tell me all the crap you just said, you know! ? It's there, for the patients, for whom a good word is very good! Why don't you guys go through with this? Why are they lying all over the country based on all these statistics? Either they get involved in this system, or there's gonna be a big problem. Secretarys of State, who is poor here, there is no chance that he will recover. You guys talk about paying health care? Everyone has to pay. Not as much as in our time, but 20 and 30 times that. And you talk about free health care? Anyone who wants normal care and doesn't want to die in six months has to be paid in advance. This is the kind of world we live in, and you're saying everything's okay here? Do you brag about developments? 90 percent of those developments were based on previous government decisions. [[To Dr. Bence Rétvári:]] Mr. Secretary, if you would just listen to me for a moment, when will there be an operating block promised? Anyway, your answer was pretty much the same, I see you don't care about this problem, but Saintly, people are very interested in why they lied to them, why they said that they would have the modern operating block they took away in this government cycle. These will have to be answered, ladies and gentlemen, rather than saying what happened, say, 15 years ago. I need to see what's going on right now. There will be a long summer break, fellow Members, with anyone, at any time I am willing to go through the same work again, or even for weeks. But come along and let's do this together. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2016-04-26-125	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, A speech will be made by Congressman Márius Révész, Fidesz Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2016-04-26-126	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, We've been debating this for a long time, so we can try to make a little reckoning as to who's actually proposing. Ferenc Gyurcsány once again voted in favour of paying health care, a clear, clear speech, in which he sees the solution. The position of the socialists is a little more difficult to express, they have said a lot of things in the past, but their main statement is that if I simplify it, it is this: obviously more money should be spent on health care. Szabó Timea added that he said that we had withdrawn 600 billion forints from health care. Let me begin by saying this, especially to the socialists: Zoltán Gőgös does not fully understand why we start with the period before 2010, why we mention those eight years. I'll try to explain, I've tried several times, I'm not sure there's any point, I'm not sure you'll understand, but I'll try again. [[Zoltán Grimlock: Be modest, okay?]] You know, Congressman, for example, in 2006, when Ferenc Gyurcsány spoke in the autumn of ominous speech, he told us how much better we live than our opportunities provide. [[Zoltán Pride: When you come to work with me, talk about it.]] At that time, it was 9.3 percent that year, Congressman, a lack of budget. And that's not a problem because it was such a big deal at the time, but the problem is that what we lived in Hungary at the time, we bear the standard of living, the burdens of it, anyway, right now, in these years as well. You know, Congressman, in 2013, Hungary was forced to spend 1300 billion forints on debt repayment. [[Zoltán Grimlock: Is there money for stadiums?]] It took 1,300 billion forints. This year, in 2013 we were able to spend HUF 960 billion on health care. Honourable Congressman, The reason you need to be a little more modest is because if you were to say, you wouldn't have been indebted to the country. [[Zoltán Grimlock: Slip!]] , and only 400-500 billion forints less a year - a totally realistic figure, by the way, if they had held the 50 per cent government - if they had only 500 billion forints a year in debt repayment in Hungary, then from that 500 billion forints, you know, not 20 thousand, but 50 thousand forints for all nurses, it would be very significant to raise the salaries of health care and education workers. The thing is, they left this behind, and this burden is on our shoulders, and it's Greek before us every year. Let's say I have some positive news, my honourable fellow Member, thanks to responsible management, this HUF 1300 billion has been reduced to HUF 1000 billion in debt repayments over a period of about three years, say, this year, 2016, and this HUF 300 billion will appear - to say, in education, health care and many other places. So you can mention the stadiums, and we spent 100 billion forints on that, let's say, in several years, by the way, you raised the debt repayment by 500 billion forints a year - just to see the proportions. I'd call it Szabó Timea, who said we've deducted 600 billion from health care. I have before me the evolution of the health insurance fund's benefits in kind: curative and preventive care. [[16.20]] Here are the numbers, and my fellow Members are trying to figure out in what year 600 billion forints are missing. He says that in 2009 the budget spent HUF 719 billion on this, in 2010 Mihály Varga announced 791 billion, in 2011 806 billion, in 2012 842 billion, in 2013 908 billion, in 2014 945 billion, in 2015 960 billion, and in the next year's budget, just today, Mihály Varga announced that HUF 167 billion will be available in the 2017 budget, not by 100 billion, but by 167 billion forints more for health than in 2015. So you can throw big numbers at Szabó Timea, but the thing is that every year, if you look at it, budget support has increased. And it can be said, ladies and gentlemen, that this is not enough, and I also think that it is not enough. There is a great debt of hospitals, which we are rolling in front of us, which is unacceptablely low on the wages of nurses, and I am sure that the wages of specialists must also be increased, so there are wage problems in the whole system, but I think that this 167 billion HUF will be enough to solve a lot of problems anyway. The only thing I would like to discuss in particular was the extra problem with the exodus of doctors, especially the exodus of young doctors. In the case of residents, we set scholarships for five, 100, 150 and 200 thousand HUF. The fact is that there are very positive processes: 627 people won the competition in 2011, 917 in 2016. Let me give you one more positive reading. In 2010, 845 - this was the year when you were still in government for a while - issued the official card needed to recognise your diploma abroad and to go abroad. I consider this to be a very positive development, that by 2015 this will have decreased to half, 492, so 492 have issued the official card needed to recognise the diploma abroad. This means that there is a chance to stop or significantly reduce the large-scale medical emigration that has started in the past period from Hungary. No doubt they're right when they say there's more work to be done, because there's a real problem that while they're getting scholarships, residents get more income than when they're doctors, when, to say the least, this residency scholarship expires. So I very much hope that out of the additional HUF 167 billion in the following year, and I hope, this year, we can make a significant contribution to the pay of nurses and doctors. I very much hope that we will be able to make very significant progress next year - because we also need it very much - in terms of the quality of health institutions in Budapest. I have been in several rural hospitals in the past period, but I must say that in this situation Budapest is particularly disadvantaged, so it is very important that there is money for this in the next period. I think the budget that we have just submitted is certainly encouraging, and I think the demand that the socialists have made for more money in health care will be done, despite the fact that they have left such an inheritance. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-04-26-127	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, A statement will be made by Mr Zsolt Egyed, Jobbik Group. You have the floor.
u2016-04-26-128	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, On a health debate day, I think we can't just walk away from the problem of GP practice. I've been consulting three general practitioners in the last week, including a country doctor and a general doctor in Miskolc, and we have to say that they have virtually terrible problems and terrible livelihood problems. I'll tell you why. This general doctor in Miskolc, whom I spoke to, said that he would receive funding of approximately over a million forints a month. This would be a good amount, by the way, there would be no problem with that, but then he also said what he had to finance: he had to finance his assistant's wages, contributions, finance the maintenance of his office, finance the monthly fees of the computer software he used, and finance his car and fuel, which, by the way, is due to the patients. If we take all this into account and subtract it, do you know how much the salary of a GP in Miskolc is that he still has? Net 170,000 forints. Ladies and gentlemen, From now on, it's no wonder, I think, if the doctors want to go abroad, because if a GP does the same job from us to the West, he will earn this money in practically two or three days. I believe that for a man who has completed a very serious university, studied for decades, it is humiliating that he is forced to make a living on such a low wage, and then here, even their auxiliary staff, the assistants, who also have a medical degree, I didn't tell them, they probably have less wages. Ladies and gentlemen, It must also be stated, and some people have said before me that there are currently more than 300 GP practices unfilled in Hungary, and we must state that the cities are still in a more fortunate position, because it is almost impossible to find a GP in rural villages. I know of a village where the general practitioner is 75 years old and still does his job. I think we can agree that this is not a normal and not a natural condition, that a 75-year-old person has to work just because he is conscientious and doesn't want to leave it empty, he doesn't want to abandon the people who live in the countryside. I think that in order for this situation to change, and a number of people have already said so before me, it is necessary to change the funding system, and these people, these general practitioners and these assistants who work with them, must be valued not only in words but also in financial matters; it can be said that this is not happening today. But let's just keep going, and let's try to see into the future a little bit, what that's going to look forward to. This suggests that in 10 to 15 years there will be no general doctor in the country, and in 15 to 20 years there will be no general doctor in the cities. I believe that this is the basis for health care, so if this does not work, healthcare will not work in Hungary. I believe that if we do not deal with this urgently, there will be huge problems in Hungary, as these problems are already happening today. There can be no other solution here than to try to support these working doctors in such a way that they really feel appreciated and can continue to do their job conscientiously, because, based on what they have said, a lot of people are considering - and I am talking mainly about those under the age of 50 with whom I have spoken - that even if they do not leave the country, but wish to move elsewhere within the medical career, there is no way to build a future and a family. Thank you so much for listening. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2016-04-26-129	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, We would now have two-minute speeches, but since there was no such demand from my fellow Members... [[Dr. István Józsa: That's what happens!]] I've drawn your attention, Congressman. You have the floor in a two-minute time frame. Here you go.
u2016-04-26-130	Thank you very much for your flexibility, Mr President. In two minutes, all I want to say to the representative of the government present is that somehow it is quite different what the Secretary of State says and what the other Secretary of State is not here. So you can see that you're trying to put this story together as a responsible analyst and maybe with a better purpose. I wish you'd keep that attitude to yourself, and don't let your knife break into your recovery experiment, your experiments. The attitude that the Secretary of State of Rétvári has shown is to list in such a production conference what kind of money, small money, sometimes bigger European money has been spent on health care, of course, probably factually true, but if we look at the whole balance sheet, that you are able to present additional expenditure only in the end with EU funds being put there - and I do not want to condemn your previous budget preparations, but they have always changed the lines a little bit, so as not to be comparable to the expenditure on health in nominal terms - we see and hear the end result from our voters. [[16.30]] So let me express the positive view in my two-minute comment that perhaps this analyst's, perhaps a little more critical, is sympathetic and offers some chance that they may be able to improve health care, because, given the sum of the last six years, the current state of affairs is not as rosy as the numbers show. Thank you. [[It's a rare applause from the benches of the MSZP.]]
u2016-04-26-131	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Since our fellow Member has not been able to speak for several two minutes, let me now inform the Honourable Parliament that the KDNP Group will waive the remaining timeframe of 23 minutes and 13 seconds for the benefit of the Fidesz Group on the basis of the request of Mr Péter Harrach, Head of the Group. [[Interviews from the benches of MSZP: Wow! Zoltán Grimlock: And where is he?]] Please, Congressman, allow the session to determine how. By the way, I would like to inform you that, according to the Rules of the House, this can only be done in writing by the faction. Dear Parliament, We'll get back to work. Mr Font Sándor, Fidesz Group, will be speaking. Congressman, you have the floor.
u2016-04-26-132	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, In 2003, a member of the then Hungarian Parliament received an invitation from the English Parliament to study the English public life, with the title of the election system, the functioning of Parliament, electoral tactics. There Tony Blair's government - he had a second government at the time - had just won the election, he had already won the election more narrowly than the first, because, as it turned out, one of the big debates was the introduction of so-called waiting lists and performance volume limits as a result of the privatization of healthcare. The Members, among whom I mention that there were socialist representatives with us, Judit Csiha, László Keller, György Wiener, were among others in the delegation, we simply did not understand what they were talking about, that the waiting list and the performance volume limit were almost impossible to translate for us what it meant. We smiled a little bit about what we had here in the West because of privatization, so we don't have that. It's about 2003. After a few years, these gentlemen contribute by their activities to the knowledge of these concepts in Hungarian society, to its own sense of what it means to have a critical surgery after a year or a half, and what it means to have a performance volume limit that my fellow Member has already spoken about. For the outsiders to understand, there was a frame number, a month's worth of money for healing treatment, and if it ran out in the middle of the month, they couldn't do any more treatments there, they stopped the surgeries, and they had to wait for the first days of the next month for the state to redistribute the money. This was the complicated system and a terrible system that we had to deal with at some level. But this was just the tip of the iceberg, because, in addition to these performance volume limits and waiting lists, the present representatives also gave their vote to an activity such as the closure of the National Psychiatric and Neurological Institute, many mentioned it, where they simply put the treated on the street, literally. They've introduced the hospital safe system. They introduced the visitation fee system, it worked for almost a year. This was abolished by the referendum initiated by Fidesz. Thank God that Hungarian society was wise enough to join us in this matter and put an end to this madness. But, in the meantime, of course, the army of private companies preferred by MSZP-SZDSZ put its foot in the whole of health care. HospInvest was mentioned here. However, the fact that private companies with multinational offshore backgrounds were started to enter the pharmacy system in the pharmacy system, in the pharmacy system, was a serious blow, as Fidesz has always forced and helped to destroy a private pharmacy system, nearly 600 private drugstores closed as a result of this idea. They figured it'd be so good that you could get drugs at a gas station, in ABCs, in tramps. Fortunately, this madness was no longer fully realized. To show what the penetration of the private system meant to the clientship of MSZP-SZDSZ, in 2006-2010 there was a major improvement at the Bács-Kiskun County General Assembly for the county hospital there. A Siemens PET-CT has been installed. This was a public property in Bács-Kiskun County. Two PET-CTs were still active in the country. These were the highest-skilled CTs at the time. The two other CTs were private. It turned out when we were going to operate that OEP did not provide an operating framework for the operation of the publicly owned CT in Bács-Kiskun County, because the entire operating framework was allocated every year to the operation of the other two private CTs. To show you where the MSZP-SZDSZ government has corrupted Hungarian health care. That's how we had to get this system back on its feet. Minister, Mr Secretary of State has shown with irrefutable numbers the amount that has already reached these supply institutions through development. We do not deny that it is natural that half or less than half of the waiting lists have been reduced. We're not gonna stop here, we know this has to be reduced, and we're gonna do it. But the profound systemization that the MSZP-SZDSZ has done is not expected to be resolved overnight, but there is no data to prove that we have done anything about it and not set it on the road to development. To mention my constituency, three settlements received new rescue stations and new ambulances, Dunavecse, Kiskőrös and Kalocsa. It's a matter of fact, we handed them over this spring. Don't tell me the rescue development didn't happen. This type of rescue station and device supply has not yet been developed, so it is correct to extend this sentence. At the same time, the hospital in Kalocsa was to be closed in 2008-2009, it was only the change of government and the local elections there that did not allow it to close with the opposite process and restored it. A billion-dollar investment is currently being made in order to ensure that this Kalocsa-Paksian hospital can also supply the Paks area as a result of the Kalocsa-Paks bridge. There is no question that when the socialists were thinking only about health care, they were thinking at all costs about privateisation, outsourcing, the distribution of a buddy's circle. I want to make this system pay again the moment they think they can get involved. I think it would be a huge mistake and a great tragedy if the MSZP were to once again be placed in a decision-making position in the health situation, since it could only continue the debauchery process mentioned above. I hope that doesn't happen. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause from the pro-government ranks.]]
u2016-04-26-133	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Mr Ildikó Bangóné Borbély, Member of the MSZP Group, will take the floor. I give you the floor.
u2016-04-26-134	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, Dear fellow Members, The low level of public health expenditure is not an economic necessity at all, but a decision and a political priority. I would like to address three issues, Mr President, first of all some data referring to the data of the HCSO in relation to the EU comparison. In terms of the proportion of people who died below the age of one year, Hungary has a lower than the EU average. 5 out of 1000 children die before the age of one year, while the average is 3.5. That makes us the fifth in the back. We're pretty bad at death, too. In Hungary, the number of deaths per 1000 inhabitants is 12.8, while the EU average is 9.7. This makes us the fourth worst country in the world. Of the 28 Member States, we are also in the fourth to fifth position from behind in different years and in terms of life expectancy for the two sexes. At birth, men can expect 72.2, and women can expect 79.1 years. The older we look at the indicator, the farther back we go, but the life expectancy of 45-year-old women is outstanding, which is the lowest in Bulgaria. In Hungary, both life expectancy and healthy life expectancy are significantly below the EU average. Many men die before they are 65. In 2012, more than 20 percent of the deceased men were 40-59 years old, and every second of the 60-79-year-olds died according to the data of the KSH. Compared to the birth values of healthy life expectancy, Hungary's territory can be divided into two very different parts: Western Transdanubia and Central Hungary and the other five regions differ significantly. [[16.40]] The population of the less developed North Great Plain can expect a life span of 54,2 years and 54,8 years, while in the most developed region, Central Hungary, a man can live 62,4 years without limitations in his daily activities, the latter being above the EU average. Regarding the cause of death, Hungary is the first to measure the mortality rate caused by malignancies, we are second to the rate of suicide after Lithuania, and we have a particularly poor ranking of cardiovascular deaths and gastrointestinal deaths. In terms of healthcare expenditure per capita, Hungary is ranked fourth in the purchasing power parities, and we are equally ill if we look at the level of public health expenditure in proportion to GDP. There is still a need to mention, after the statistics, the uninsured ones, how we stand with them in Hungary. Nearly half a million people have an unfinished insurance relationship, which means that they do not have an insurance relationship that clearly entitles them to health care - half a million people! Some of them are probably unemployed who have already been excluded from all benefits, and most of them are supposed to be those who, in fact, are under obligation to pay health care contributions without insurance, but they do not do so because they either do not know whether they should pay or know, but do not want to do it or are not able to do it. The unemployed are likely to work black in Hungary. We have recently tabled an amendment by the Hungarian Socialist Party, in which we proposed that, in view of the situation of young adults, the passive insurance relationship increase to 180 days during the average unemployment period, which is now 45 days if the person concerned is not yet 26 years old. This would mean that after the young person finishes the school, he does not have to pay 7,000 forints a month after 45 days in order to qualify, and many of them become permanently unavailable because of their non-payment. I think that this could have been understood at the committee meeting, and, of course, this amending proposal has been voted out, as has all been the case so far. We need to talk here, but we have a short window on the regulation of retirement work, which this government has managed to do pretty well again, but we may still have a chance to do that, and we're going to do a little autopsy. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2016-04-26-135	Thank you, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, We now have two-minute speeches again. I give the floor to Congressman Márius Révész. Here you go.
u2016-04-26-136	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, Statistics can be interpreted and interpreted that way. Undoubtedly, in a European comparison, Mrs Bangóné is right, because infant mortality remains high compared to certain European Union countries and needs to go further in this area. However, fairness is required, and we are saying this here in Parliament because in 2010 the number of deaths of a thousand infants died within a year was 5.3, and Congresswoman Bangóné is certainly right that this has only decreased to 3.5, but it is actually a 20 percent decrease in the past period - 20 percent! - which, by the way, means that 381 babies died last year, as opposed to, say, 481 in 2010. You can be dissatisfied, but yet the fact that we have made significant progress in this area is not to be debated, because in practice this means that last year, 75 more babies have been saved than in previous years, and I think that is the result. If Congresswoman Bangóné says that it is still possible to improve compared to Europe, she is right, but that she is criticising us, while the number we have taken from you is very significant, it is not fair to have it taken away. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties. Zoltán Gőgös: In 2010, you were halfway there!]]
u2016-04-26-137	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, A speech will be made by Congresswoman Mónika Dunai, Fidesz Group.
u2016-04-26-138	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Week after week, we can see that the left can do nothing but upset and mood. After educators, health workers are being harassed and tried to take advantage of them. [[Ildikó Bangóné Borbély intervenes.]] During their administration, health care has been brought into crisis and patient care has been brought to the brink of collapse. The left has pulled 650 billion out of health care, you've shut down hospitals and put thousands of health workers on the street. On top of that, they wanted to benefit even the sick at the time. The biggest losers in your administration were hospitals. You have closed hospitals, hospitals are down, and the number of active sick beds has been significantly reduced by 16,000. On the other hand, Fidesz is particularly interested in improving the quality of patient care, improving the living and working conditions of health workers and the continuous improvement of the healthcare system. One important element of this is this year's transformation of the acute surgical on-call system in the capital city. The acute surgical supply capacity in Budapest has been significantly strengthened since 1 April this year. Instead of the previous few hospitals, all the metropolitan hospitals with surgical profiles provide emergency surgical patients 24 hours a day. Ladies and gentlemen, In order for hospitals and clinics to ensure a high level of professionalism for all residents of the country, all their patients, and in my constituency, in Rákosment, for the people of Rákosment, for the people of Kőbánya, but for the entire population of Budapest, therefore, it has been necessary to continuously improve in recent years as well, and to improve the quality of hospitals and clinics in the future, both at building level and at professional level, as well as at the supply system in Budapest, in terms of assets. The Fidesz-KDNP government supported the modernisation of the healthcare system, the development and development of the newly created structure and the improvement of the health of the population by nearly HUF 500 billion, including the renewal of hospital infrastructure from more than HUF 322 billion, while hospital equipment and instruments received HUF 104.6 billion of development resources. In the field of health, the majority of development resources have helped to renew inpatient care, modernise and modernise oncological care. For example, the Semmelweis University, the National Institute of Oncology or the Uzsoki Street Hospital could have made such improvements. We have also paid particular attention to the energy modernisation and rationalisation of health institutions throughout the country, and here in Budapest. Several hospitals and clinics in Budapest have been refurbished in recent years, with only a few examples: the National Institute of Oncology, the National Institute of Medical Rehabilitation, the National Institute of Rheumatology and Physiotherapy, the National Institute of Sports Health, but I could also describe the specialized clinic of Bajcsy-Zsilinszky Hospital in my constituency in Rákosment and Kőbány. In addition to institutional EU projects, in 2014, the government provided three sources of health development worth HUF 1.8 billion, which aimed at improving the professional quality and the framework for the care of cardiological and cancer diseases, as well as the domestic implementation of lung transplantation. The government created the legal conditions for lung transplantation and provided its financial background with a HUF 900 million grant at the National Institute of Oncology. [[16.50]] It is worth pointing out now that, apart from Austria, this intervention cannot be achieved in any neighbouring country. The state finances these life-saving surgeries without any financial limit. That wasn't the case before. With the hybrid O.R. to be built at the Heart Clinic in VárosMajor, Hungary is catching up on the treatment of vascular and cardiac diseases in Europe. Such a hybrid operating theatre is not only in Hungary, but also in the Central and Eastern European region. The investment was supported by the government with more than HUF 800 million. The hybrid operating room also allows the treatment of all vascular diseases and life-threatening cardiac arrhythmias in a single operating room. Or Szent István and Szent László Hospital provided 100 million HUF for the modernisation of oncological care. Ladies and gentlemen, Developments in health will continue in this EU funding cycle between 2014 and 2020. Fidesz and KDNP's faction recognised the importance of this, and we said that besides rural development, there is a huge need for a new hospital in Budapest. The government and Parliament have taken the necessary first steps to do this. In this year's budget, we provided a surplus of HUF 1 billion for planning this and preparing it. Ladies and gentlemen, I ask that when we talk about health care, when we talk about the situation of Budapest and the situation of hospitals and clinics throughout the country, we do not scare people, because not only the care system, but we also have the responsibility to make people more aware of what they can do, what care the state provides instead of creating hesitation, debate and helplessness between doctors and patients, or between patients. I think we all have a responsibility in this. Let us work together for the health of Hungary. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2016-04-26-139	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, Mr Gergely Kulcsár, Member of the Jobbik Group, will be given a speech. There you go. You have the floor.
u2016-04-26-140	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, My right-wing colleagues before me have already highlighted a significant part of the problems of Hungarian health care. I don't want to go into a repeat, so I wouldn't go into that. I would like to address two things that have not yet been said in this debate. Last year was the year of volunteering in Jobbik's history, and the better Members volunteered each month in different areas. I could work in the social sphere myself on two occasions; this is related to health, isn't it? I did social care in the nursing home of Hajdúbagos and Ozd, assisted the professionals. And I would like to join this year's call for the Independent Health Union. A number of my better-looking fellow Members are joining in on this. I myself will be volunteering in the new village of Berettyó in the hospital to experience the situation of health care workers and Hungarian health care. I would recommend to my fellow members of the Government that they join this call so that they can also give a credible opinion on Hungarian health care. What I would also like to talk about is that we all know: Hungarian people, especially older people, spend a lot of money on health care, medicines are expensive, because of low pensions, this is a very big problem for older people. Many spend ten thousand forints a month on medicines, and most of their pensions go there. In addition, I would like to highlight a problem of my narrower Patria, the example of Debrecen, which also upsets people. This is also a matter of health, because health institutions and parking in the vicinity of hospitals are not easy in Debrecen. All the more so, because in Debrecen the parking fee is measured at gold prices in the area of the clinic and the Kenézi Gyula Hospital, but also in the parking lot outside the hospital area, parking is now paid in parking places next to both hospitals. In addition to the clinic on Pallagi út, the parking has been paid for years and since the summer of 2013 besides the Kenézy Gyula Hospital. We have received many requests from the public about this, and Jobbik believes that it is intolerable that sick people and their relatives are even subject to parking charges. At Jobbik Debrecen, he initiated a board meeting with the municipality to make free parking at least for the first half or an hour, but unfortunately it was swept off by the fidesz majority. It's not just a Debrecen problem. I've heard from several places in the country that this is a problem. I would like to point out to the decision-makers that they are trying to deal with this, that we should stop putting patients beyond drug prices with parking charges, and that I would ask the decision-makers, my pro-government colleagues, to try to change this situation. Thank you very much. That's all I wanted to say. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2016-04-26-141	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Mr Simon Robert Balázs, Fidesz Group, is coming to a speech.
u2016-04-26-142	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Since 2010, the civilian government has been constantly replacing resources taken from health care under previous socialist-liberal governance. For this, I think the best proof is that in the last six years Hungary has perhaps the largest hospital development programme of all time, with some HUF 500 billion. This programme mainly affected rural hospitals, reached some HUF 322 billion in hospital development, and was used for more than HUF 100 billion in equipment procurement. If you look at my narrower living environment, namely Győr and Győr-Moson-Sopron County, here's what I can tell you about this. In the case of Győr, the Petz Aladár County Training Hospital has received a HUF 13 billion development between 2010 and 16 in this period. I would like to highlight two of these. One is called infrastructure development in the hospital as a health pole. Practically about a third of the hospital's territory was renewed, and to be exact: a new building was built at Petz Hospital, as I mentioned, worth HUF 11.2 billion. Another serious investment: in a TÁMOP programme, support for the training of doctors and health professionals is worth HUF 124 million. But if we go further into the county and see what happened at Margit Hospital in Csorna, we can see that a new central outpatient clinic was built for HUF 1.6 billion in the framework of a TIFO investment. By the way, Csorna has made a HUF 2 billion HUF 25 million development using seven opportunities. In the case of another settlement with 10 thousand inhabitants, Kapuvár, I would like to highlight the development of outpatient services in the small region in the framework of a TIOP application, worth nearly 900 million HUF. Seven applications were successfully completed in Kapuvár, with a total value of HUF 1.3 billion. The other big city in Győr-Moson-Sopron County is the county-righted town of Sopron. In Sopron, there was a centralisation of active care in the Erzsébet Teaching Hospital for more than HUF 5 billion in the framework of a TIOP application. If I may point out one more thing: the replacement of MRI equipment worth some HUF 500 million at the Sopron Medical Center in the KEOP application. Last but not least Mosonmagyaróvár. This is Karolina Hospital. The blocking of the central units of Karolina Hospital, the expansion of the chronic department, the development of modern medical technology and IT tools in a TIOP project worth nearly HUF 1 billion, worth HUF 944 million, and the development of emergency care in the Karolina Hospital worth HUF 406 million, also in the framework of the TIOP application. [[17.00]] In Karolina Hospital, 2 billion HUF 69 million was developed between 2010-16. Overall, in Győr-Moson-Sopron county there was 27 billion HUF 222 million worth of development in these five settlements, in these five hospitals. I think that since 2006 I have been a part of public life in the county, and I have been watching the events since about the nineties, that such an improvement has never occurred before in Győr-Moson-Sopron county, so really thanks for these improvements! Maybe there's less talk about the National Rescue Service. I'd like to give you some more data here. At the time of previous government, i.e. the socialists' government, HUF 650 billion was withdrawn from health care, and this withdrawal did not spare the rescue service. But what happened between 2010 and 16? One of the greatest developments of all time has been made here, as 27 new rescue stations have been built and 85 rescue stations have been renovated from central sources. 467 new ambulances were purchased, so two new ambulances were on duty at each station. As a result of this measure, the Hungarian rescue service will finally be able to perform its work in more modern, more dignified conditions in the period since the change of government in 2010. In closing, I would like to say a few thoughts about basic health care. Compared to 2009, the government provided some 40 percent more money in support of basic care in 2015, including the use of this amount for GPs, GPs, school doctors, nurses and regional dentists. In addition to strengthening primary care and taking into account patients' interests, funding for primary care has been increased several times over the past four years by the government. From January 2015, every GP or GP practice with a territorial care obligation will receive a monthly allowance of 130 thousand HUF, which can be spent on the maintenance costs of the clinics. In view of all this, the funding fee for general medical services has increased by 35 percent per month since 2010, which does not include the amount of HUF 50,000 per month's asset support, under which HUF 6.2 billion was paid to GPs between 2011 and 2014. I believe that health is indeed one of the most important issues for all of us, and the facts that I have told you are a significant part of these improvements. I trust, because I know, because I see in the draft budget that this process, i.e. improvements in the acquisition of assets and infrastructural developments, will continue in the next period. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-04-26-143	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Statement by Mr László Varga, MSZP Group. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2016-04-26-144	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to reassure the few who, in the absence of a public exchange, follow the meeting over the Internet, I see what the Fidesz MEPs are saying today in their speeches, that is one thing, and many of them are also aware of the very tragic situation and problems of health today. From a communication point of view, I understand that the faction has been put on the two issues of pointing back before 2010 and that today they are talking only about improvements made from European Union funds. I suggest that we all try to be more constructive than that. I think this is in the interests of all of us, so it is in the interests of Hungary. I see the problem - in this respect, it is indeed similar to the situation in education, that you have taken it into your head after 2010, the problems of Hungarian health care are caused by the excessive fragmentation of the system, local authorities, county authorities as maintainers, and there is a great waste of the system. Here, too, an integration process has been launched, as in the field of education. Local governments and county authorities have been removed from this circle as maintainers. By the way, it is true that, in proportion to GDP, health funding was reduced from 4.6 percent to 4 percent in parallel, and there was a lawnmower principle in the healthcare sector. Obviously, there are areas where savings could be made in relation to the blind and the drug register, although I note that the prices of some medicines are falling and others are increasing. No one's arguing that. But I'm saying that with the situation you've created, you're simply making it impossible for health care to work. I'm talking about my county. Last January, there were three billion dollars in debt to the institutions and hospitals here. You can say that you've solved something, but the debt is coming back again and again. Our faction has recently submitted written questions about the situation of hospital debt in each county. Well, it seems that this system is unsustainable in this respect, re-production and re-production of debt. There is much to say, but I think it is important to decide whether, in these two large areas - and today we are talking about one of them, health - the budget finances the functions that Hungarian society requires for a good reason. Will you fund this? Experts say that there would be a need for more money in health care with HUF 400-600 billion; a number of articles and studies will be carried out. Of course, you can say that it is easy to say from the opposition to get this money, but I am sorry, as Members of Parliament, we also have a responsibility to make proposals. If the MNB were to pay the profits of these two hundred billionaires into the budget - a huge scandal for days, we hear from each other what facial toasters are going on in this regard, and on what more unnecessary matters the MNB and its foundations, whose scandalous spendings are, could be used for health or educational purposes. Here, let me raise the basic hospital fee, which is 150,000 from 2010. Therefore, it cannot be said that individual funding would have improved, but rather decreased significantly in real terms, and this can be seen in the institutions. This year's budget compared to the previous year, hospitals' appropriations did not preserve their real value, nor did they retain their real value. I think this is unacceptable. This is why there are two things that have been developed in recent years on the basis of the development plans for the period before 2010, but where these have not happened for various reasons, or because the area was not entitled to such improvements, or because it has not been given sufficient attention and there are amazing conditions. Let me talk here about the situation that is in Miskolc and affects my constituency in this regard. It's a geographically interesting town with four hospitals. Although Starpoint Development was launched before 2010, which affected the county hospital, but it was only completed at your time, it was also possible to spend significant resources on Semmelweis OB, but overall, the county hospital absorbs the high-income functions that several institutions have been able to provide geographically fragmented in the city. There are huge lines, and people are impatient. About ten months ago, there was a health debate day, and I still spoke. There are areas in Miskolc that were only available 10 months ago in March 2021, such as knee replacements. So there are such unsuitable situations in health care. And institutions that are constantly empty or increasingly devoid of function are extremely concerned about their own future. Let me also highlight the future of the hospital in Diósgyőr, because I think that Nutnut needs proper health care. [[17.10]] It is not a good message that from basic to active beds, this has been continuously decommissioned from 2010 onwards. The Fidesz city administration started after 2010 by saying that instead of the two previous adult GPs, there is only one now. So the nutgyőri has ceased, so not only the people of Diósgyőr, but also the people of the surrounding settlements can use this service much harder and more inefficiently. Not to mention that there is a number of criticisms in the field of specialist orders, too, there would need to be proper care for the people of Diósgyőr in this regard, not that, by the way, 10-15-20 kilometers a day to get to the county hospital, they should wait for hours for them to otherwise receive proper care. I am saying to you that politics should come to a consensus or talk about funding this country, health care, which is not just a personal social issue for health workers. It is not just a tragedy, however, that they are earning so little, but because of emigration, I see that if the country does not do this and does not finance its health care, then security of supply will indeed deteriorate drastically. There was talk of more than gossip in today's debate about a single anesthesiologist in Borsod County. That's untenable. That's what I'd like to say to you. More money for health care and healthcare workers should receive the well-deserved salary increase that they deserve, and I think about nurses here, because I see them doing superhuman work in very difficult conditions, and they want nothing but to stay in their profession and to live decently here in Hungary with their families. Thank you.
u2016-04-26-145	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, On behalf of the government, I give the floor to Secretary of State Zoltán Ónodi-Szűcs. Here you go.
u2016-04-26-146	Dear House, I've just received a compliment, so I'd like to do it again, and I'd like to comment from an analytical point of view on the previous ones. It was explained how the weight value of the specific financing changed or did not change. This is based on the wrong starting point that this figure of 150,000 forints has not changed in years. This is factually true, but you should know that the income of a hospital depends not only on that. There are two other items that have increased significantly in recent years. One of these is the burden of wage increases that have been started from. 12 onwards. This is not given to the institution within the weight, but to the institution in a separate line from the OEP. And the other is the cash register, the cash register of certain special devices and medications, which the hospital also receives from a separate register. If these two elements were to be adjusted to the weight figure, I have to tell you now that the value would not be HUF 150 thousand, but HUF 207 thousand. So what I can say again is that this kind of thought process doesn't fully cover reality. If we are to be forced to put these two elements into the weight base separately, then this will be worth more than inflation. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2016-04-26-147	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, I now give the floor to our other member of the government, Secretary of State, Peter Benő Banai. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2016-04-26-148	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Congressman László Varga asked a good question, if I may put it this way. Does the country fund expenditure on the health system? I would add that question by asking whether you can finance the country's responsible financing of the health system's expenditure. And I think that today, when we are talking about the state of the state of the government, and we are also talking about the means by which we are trying to identify the problems we have seen in the future, it is important to give an accurate insight into the state of health and to give an accurate insight into who has done what. Allow me first to draw on the facts in the context of the analysis of the past and the data on closing accounts among the facts, as well as the data of Eurostat, the statistical body of the Union, in an international comparison. I have here a series of health expenditures and a series of Hungarian data from 2002 to the 2017 plan. I see two years before 2010, where health spending has decreased. Between 2006 and 2007, where the reform of the pharmaceutical system is crucial, an increase in patient burden has led to a reduction in the expenditure on the central budget. Allow me to quote from the 2007 closure report presented by the then government, which states that in 2007 14 billion was then [[Zoltán Haughty interrupts.]] Yes, the patient burden increased by HUF 14 billion, which means an increase of 13.9 percent. Thus, the increase in the burden of patients was accompanied by a reduction in public expenditure. The other such change occurred between 2008 and 2009, when the withdrawal of the 13th month wage in 2009 meant a significant reduction in funding with the already mentioned financial contractions. Now, after 2010, I see a reduction in expenditure, which is also linked to the transformation of the pharmaceutical system, which, I think, was a transformation that could, for example, serve a number of countries, and for example, take this transformation, which reduced public spending by reducing the burden on patients, the customers of the medicine, i.e. the public burden of pharmaceutical manufacturers and distributors, due to the changes announced in the framework of the then Széll Kálmán plan. I repeat, while the patient burden increased in the first change, the patient burden decreased in the second change, and I believe that there is a substantial difference between the two changes in this respect. After 2010, only an increase in aid was made for the other items on the basis of the facts. In particular, between 2010 and 2017, and here we have also talked about the figures of the 2017 budget presented today, there has been a very significant increase in many areas. We can watch the healing-preventing register, we can look at the items of basic care, every year we find an estimate where there was some growth. And then allow me to ask Mr László Varga whether it is possible to finance health care, whether it is possible to finance health care responsibly. And let's not forget that before 2010, the management of the Hungarian state, public finance management, had a lot of criticism. We know that when extra expenditure was made by the State, it unfortunately did so many times without its coverage; the result was an excessive deficit procedure and a very significant debt. After 2010, all the additional expenditure in the healthcare sector was combined with a responsible public finance management, the series is also known to you. I think that this is the real change: ensuring surpluses that are achieved in a responsible way, which do not increase the burden of future generations. After the Hungarian data, let me say a few words about the figures seen in the international comparison. It's often said. [[Dr. László György Lukács intervenes.]] Mr President, it is often said that health expenditure in proportion to GDP is low in comparison with the European Union. If you look at the EU average, there is no doubt that everyone is right. Public expenditure, Congressman, numbers don't lie. Allow me to make some comparisons here too, and let me mention factual numbers again. Based on Eurostat data, countries that were in a similar economic and financial situation to Hungary in 2010 significantly reduced their public health expenditure. In addition, this reduction has been implemented with their GDP shrinking significantly. Let me give you some numbers. Between 2010-2014, Greece's real GDP fell by 18 percent, Spain's by 0.8 percent, Portugal's by 4.5 percent and Italy's by 3.4 percent. [[17.20]] In addition, within a shrinking GDP, these countries have all reduced their health costs. On the other hand, real GDP in Hungary increased by 8.8 percent between 2010 and 15 and the health expenditure in proportion to GDP remained broadly stable. So, if we compare, Congressman, we compare the initial situation that the Hungarian government saw in 2010 [[Dr. István Józsa intervenes.]] With the situation that was in other countries and looking at what happened, we can see that countries who were in a similar situation as Hungary could not put their GDP on a growing path, their health expenditures were significantly reduced within declining GDP. [[Zoltán Haughty interrupts. The president's ringing the bell.]] Hungary has not chosen such a path, so we can say that Hungarian public spending and public health expenditure have increased nominally. The budget for 2017 has now been mentioned in several words, the Health Insurance Fund's expenditures are increasing above HUF 56 billion, the health expenditure in the EMMI chapter is increasing above HUF 15 billion, and there is indeed a sum set aside for wage development, the specific increase rate depends on the discussions with the organisations concerned and the framework of the budget law submitted. At the same time, as has been said, the government has planned a substantial wage increase by allowing certain parts of the wage increase to take place in 2016. I would add: yes, these increases in wages, these extra expenditures, can be achieved by maintaining the financing capacity of public finances. Finally, let me mention that the results so far, the additional resources insurances so far and the additional resources insurances that we have seen in the 2017 budget are, of course, part of the solution to the problems we have seen before. I think it is important that we also talk about what other structural measures the government intends to take in order to reduce, for example, the debt of the institutions. And in this respect, I do consider it a very important change, although not leading to a numerical change, but a very important change, that health institutions, hospitals, have become state-owned. This creates the possibility of solving problems in a more efficient, better structure than before, and the primary aspect is the recovery of patients and the existence of a healthy Hungarian population. Of course, we still have tasks, but I think that both the 2017 budget and the government plans for later years provide an appropriate basis for carrying out these tasks. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-04-26-149	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, We will now continue our work with speeches by Members and, of course, we will be able to make two-minute comments. I give the floor to Congressman Richard Hörcsik, Fidesz Group.
u2016-04-26-150	Thank you for the floor. Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, My fellow Member Simon mentioned, as we have heard in the morning ministerial and State Secretary's Expo, that, indeed, during socialist-liberal health governance, serious resources have been removed from health care. It can be denied, it can be explained, but the facts do speak for themselves. I would also like to thank Minister of State Banai for partially confirming this. Well, we have felt these years of poverty in the countryside, in my narrower Patria, for example, in my constituency, in Abaúj and in Zemplén, even though the health care of nearly 90 thousand citizens in the region has caused serious problems due to the lack of development. Thank God, since 2010, the civilian government has made a conscious improvement on all three levels of the health care system: basic medical care, then the outpatient network, and finally the complete renovation of the Sátoraljaújhelyi Erzsébet Hospital. He has done this by involving domestic and, of course, EU funds, as an integral part of the national HUF 500 billion medical development. I can say with a calm heart that, thank God, we in the remote parts of Abaúj and Zemplén have not been left out. I would like to mention to Congressman Varga that, of course, EU funds were available. They were available before 2010, but they did not make use of it at the time, and therefore these resources are European Union funds, but they are also the pennies or cents of Hungarian voters. The point is not that it is domestic or European now, but that developments continue, and this is very, very important. Ladies and gentlemen, Erzsébet Hospital in Sátoraljaújhely stands at the highest level of care in Zemplén. For a long time, the consolidation of the hospital has been prolonged, precisely because of the continued withdrawal of resources. Where there was money, there was no money, and there was always the sword of Damokles, that the hospital in New York had to be shut down, while the institution could not spend a penny on its external state. The former owner and maintenance local government have often tried to improve errors beyond their powers. And at last it was an EU proposal that allowed the institution, which we just handed over last year, to be renewed from nearly 2 billion applications. With this, I believe that the problem of the hospital's eternal absence has been eliminated, that they are taking the hospital to Miskolc, and that it is going to be a hospital in New York. Thank God this Damoklesi sword has been removed from the head of the hospital. And then the working conditions of the patients and those who worked there changed greatly. On the second level, in the field of outpatient care, I feel that in the last five years, even more gaps have been overcome in Abaúj and Zemplén. Except in new places, in areas where there was no such supply at all, investments were made in the Abaúj Göncsön or the Bodrog-intermediate Cigand and Sárospatak in Sárospatak in Sárospatak in 2.5 billion. I feel that the possibility of one day's surgical care has been extended to all walks. What is this, if not the possibility of equal opportunities for citizens of Abaúj and Zemplén? Finally, the third level, the improvement of the infrastructure of general medical care, was also supported by the EU proposal, mainly by the renovation of end-of-life medical offices, such as Encsen, Hidasnémeti, Olaszliskán, Salaszövetten, Zsadány, with more than 550 million HUF in total in 11 of these settlements. We should also remember that the rehabilitation of heavily worn-out rescue stations in the region has finally been resolved, such as Encsen, Ricsen or Sátoraljaújhely. And I am proud to say that the rescue station since the change of regime on Sárospatak has finally been built, creating not only 14 new jobs, not only new cars, but also the white spot of timely availability in the district of Sárospatak has finally ceased. Ladies and gentlemen, If I count it well, this has meant an investment of nearly HUF 3 billion in Abaúj and Zemplén in the last five years. It is very, very important that this has led to a qualitative change in the care of patients in the region. And in the end, I'd like to conclude with what my GP used to let me go: health only, we'll buy the rest anyway. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-04-26-151	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Mr Dániel Z. Kárpát, Member of the Jobbik Group, will now take the floor. Here you go, Congressman.
u2016-04-26-152	Mr President, Dear House, Since the dialogue of the deaf is simply taking place in this House on this particularly high-priority national strategy issue, and the government is pitifully trying to make this disastrous image a little cosmetic or a little clearer, I made myself a promise, I will not continue to cast mud in either direction, because if you continue this communication towards the Hungarian citizens, you will drink the juice. I do not believe that anyone in Hungary, any sane person, would think that the health situation has made substantial progress over the last six years. [[17 .30]] We can say it's past eight years, but it should have been fixed in the last six years. What I want to contribute to today is facts, figures, statistics that can, of course, be interpreted as being true and true; but we must say that there are stubborn things that at least deserve to be debated and spoken out. In his simple capacity as Secretary of State of Rétvár, transferring his seat to the benches, he referred to the dramatic decline in the number of people applying for a foreign employment permit in recent years. There was a 2010 data when 845 similar permissions were requested, and he forgot to mention the 2013 data of 14 because, although there was indeed a fortunate decrease in the number of people applying for a foreign work permit, it did go above 1200 in 13 and 14 in 2010. It has decided and decided historic summits that were unimaginable during previous governments in a very unfavourable political climate. So that's part of the whole picture. At the same time, we have to say that the government can't be true either, but it is a success propaganda because from 2013 to 14 and then from 2014 to 15 we were also looking at catastrophic things. While in 2014 there were 35 thousand fewer, a year later, unfortunately, we were 40,000 fewer. So, unfortunately, the rate of population loss has increased. For this reason, we are entering a budgetary period and I am very pleased that this will be able to expand the spectrum of the debate, Jobbik, in order to be able to operate in the right direction on one side of the catastrophic population loss by increasing the number of live births, will again present its proposal on the priority support for directed reproduction. The problem is that we have always submitted this for five to six years, and it has never once been that Jobbik has submitted the proposal that artificial insemination is more supported, supported and voted in favour of families in difficulty, and that the government would have voted in favour of this proposal. Now, if the figures of the Secretary of State are correct, who usually shares with us professional and accurate figures, that now in the full cash register of health care it is about 100 billion in a slightly larger order, this is about a quarter to a fifth of what is missing from immediate fire-fighting situations at the moment, then I hope that you will also be able to respond to the fact that in families where they want to have children, this very difficult task, which in their situation has made it particularly difficult, makes it a little easier for Hungary, it simply cannot be a political issue. In a country and parliament of sane, normal people, it should not be a political issue to alleviate these very difficult and catastrophic situations, or at least to try to do so. I would be very interested to know how much you know and the Government of Hungary wants to support this. Jobbik will submit its amendment in this regard, and we are really looking forward to putting aside their political objections. In terms of statistics, we must say that, unfortunately, neither the emigration of doctors nor the workers has slowed down at a noticeable pace that would result in a positive systemic shift for Hungary. It's the only way I'm gonna get one of those things out of time. According to the exact numbers of British national health services, the number of doctors working in the UK has increased by nearly 70 percent since 2009, and the number of non-medical personnel has increased by 126 percent. We know the amazing outflow in Hungary in this direction, and we can also see that even in the case of midwives and midwives, a 76 percent increase in emigration can be detected and the resulting increase in the number of workers there, which clearly means adverse processes for Hungary. So our demands for the immediate ones would indeed be clear. With regard to GDP, the total allocated resource mass should be increased by at least 2 per cent and within three years. We could bring stadiums, move to the Castle and more, and I don't want to do that, because we have a long budget debate ahead of us. Jobbik was able to mark last year the approximately HUF 1100 billion of redistributable expenditure that can be found in the budget. We believe that they are being used for wasteful or inappropriate purposes, but we could spend, translate and control them in a better place. But we also need to see that, in addition to achieving at least 2% of the GDP budget growth within three years, it is true that, with the support of controlled reproductive processes and immediate intervention, fire could be extinguished in many places so that a significant shift in this very, very important system can finally be achieved. It is absolutely unviable that, in the case of people earning 90-100-110 thousand forints, you, let's say, offer such discounts to buy a car. If we are talking about a career model, let's say, in the case of a home-building, let's say, a public housing program, there would be a legitimate expectation that a doctor, health worker, would enjoy such a relief, such a discount that it would be easier for him to stay in this country, to feel better about Hungary's care, not only as a resource to be used, but also to appreciate this person, all doctors, all employees and all the professionals, of course. But as long as it is not possible to favour it in this direction with regard to a home creation programme, only for those in the upper middle class and for those in the most fortunate, then the problem is great, then the migration spiral cannot be reduced. And you can say this, Mr Rétvári State Secretary, how much more people will finish in schools, courses, universities, if Hungary helps abroad with educational processes in this regard, then we are certainly not ahead. I say this in addition to not blaming anyone who chooses to move abroad temporarily, to work. But it must be possible for these people to thrive here. You would have a dog's duty to create a climate so that all Hungarians can thrive in Hungary. Thank you for your attention. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2016-04-26-153	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, State Secretary Péter Banai Benő, Ministry of National Economy has applied for a speech. I give you the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2016-04-26-154	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, I must agree with Mr Dániel Z. Kárpat that the fundamental question is whether we can create conditions that are worth staying in Hungary. I think that if we ask this question, we need to look again at what the government has done so far and what steps it plans to take in the future. First of all, I think that if we look at staying home from the perspective of the level of wages in Hungary and the wage level in some Western European countries or overseas, then I must say that in this globalised world, we will surely find a country where higher wages are paid for decades. If we look at Hungary's history, we may have seen one or two short periods in the last thousand years, when the development of the Hungarian economy was about the same level as the development of one or two Western European countries. The question is what economic policy does in order to say the lag, the difference in development that we measure as a member of the European Union between the Hungarian economy and the average of the European Union, how it can be reduced. Once again, allow me to use the statistics first; Eurostat numbers, Eurostat, are typically looking at five-year periods. Between 2005 and 2010, Hungarian GDP decreased by 1.2 percent in real terms, while the EU average increased by 4.5 percent. I stress, it's down 1.2 percent. In this economic environment, we are in debt, the burden of which we are all moaning to this day, thanks to God, on a smaller and smaller scale. After 2010, between 2010 and 2015, Hungarian real GDP grew by 8.8 percent, while the EU average was 4.9 percent. I stress, it's expanded by 8.8 percent. The difference in development between the Hungarian economy and the average of the European Union has been reduced. Now, for the sake of historical loyalty, let me mention one or two countries that started on the same situation together with Hungary. Greece minus 18 per cent, Portugal minus 4.5 per cent, and I could list a number of other countries where this indicator is negative. The basic situation, therefore, is that today, thanks to the performance of the economy, we can say not only that all the wage measures implemented after 2010 were responsible wage measures, but also that, yes, significant wage development resources are available in the 2017 budget. [[17.40]] Mr President, in this respect, there are open gates, as I say that the Hungarian economy is expanding more than the EU average, and from this economic expansion, there are large sections of the population, including those working in health care. In addition to these wage changes, Mr President mentioned elements which, I think, are in favour of staying at home: family home support. When was the financial assistance of this kind, which provides support for family-owners and married couples who wish to live in Hungary and have a family here? [[Z. Carpathian Daniel: For rich people.]] Congressman, no; not only for rich people, but for all who have three children, three children are entitled to the same support for home creation. A family discount that can be used for single, two or three children can be deducted from the tax base depending on the income situation, and, yes, in 2017 - there is progress in this respect - the family tax relief for two children will be extended. I could also list the measures, in addition to the changes in the tax system mentioned above, through the solution to the foreign exchange credibility problem, I think that the government has taken a number of measures to make it worth staying home. Let us not forget that, as a Member State of the European Union, the free movement of persons is a fundamental EU rule, a fundamental EU law, and indeed, migration from the east to the west was not only characteristic in Hungary, but also in many countries of Europe. From this context, it is worth looking at all the steps that the Hungarian Government has taken, and from this context it is worth looking at the relationship between the Hungarian emigration data, let us say, with those of the Baltic countries. I think, yes, we have more work to do, but thank God, the figures show that we are on the right track, and I think that if this path is supported by the Parliament with the support of the government's proposals, we will be able to move forward in 2017 and the following years. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-04-26-155	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, We now have two-minute speeches. I give the floor to Mr István Józsa, MSZP Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2016-04-26-156	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, The repeated error of Secretary of State Banai made me tell you. You're in line with government propaganda, but you're the only one who says the profession isn't, and you've come up with a comparison with Greece in the summer of 2010. It wasn't true then, it was tragic, because the forint fell, and that's why Mr. Matolcsy suddenly had so much money that he could scatter to the foundations. So I'm asking you to refrain from that term for your own professional reputation, because it's simply not true. You know very well that significant consolidation was carried out by the Bajnai government, which is why Fidesz was able to achieve two thirds. They read this on our heads about the antisocial measures we have taken, and no one sees us introducing the 13th month pension, but they know very well that we have not been able to pay for this in the context of the consolidation of the financial crisis. So you need to remember precisely that in the first quarter of 2010, even if by tenths of a percent, GDP has increased, and also in the previous quarter. So the economic statistics say that if GDP is the same in two quarters, in this case, and then positive, then that means that you have a growing economy. And one more number: it says that, on average for six years and overall, GDP has increased by 9.1 percent, and healthcare is nominally allocated by 8.1 percent more. I see a little gap then, but in any case, I would very much like to protect you from this Greek example, because those euro-billions, with which the Greek economy was consolidated, clearly show that it would be better to forget about it. That was a bad line from you, and it cost him the forint. Thank you, Mr. President.
u2016-04-26-157	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Secretary of State Péter Banai Benő. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2016-04-26-158	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I apologize, I try to be very brief, but if you refer to the factual figures of Mr Józsa, then allow me to answer with factual statements or questions. If we look at the Member States of the European Union at the record of Europe's deficit, the answer is, unfortunately, Hungary. If we ask which country has been under the excessive deficit procedure for the longest time, the answer is unfortunately Hungary. If we ask which country before 2010 was able to have the largest or second largest deficit for years, five to six years, the answer is, unfortunately, Hungary. Even if we look at GDP figures, real growth figures, we can't be too proud. Mr Congressman, I am prepared to debate whether Greece was in a worse situation than Hungary, why Hungary was the first to need the credibility of the troika, the World Bank, the IMF and the European Union, the European Commission, but there is no doubt that the situation of the Greeks was not too rosy either. That is why, in addition to the Greek data, I mentioned Portuguese, Spanish or Italian data. I think that if we take Greece out of the picture, we still see a number of countries with lower debts, much less absence. [[And how much did a nurse make?]] and yet it has achieved far worse performance in recent years, not only with regard to changes in health expenditure, but also, let us say, with regard to the general government deficit or public debt. Allow me to make one comment on the MNB, this is not a matter of health debate, but the factual fact is that, thank God, we can now talk about the MNB having a profit and not about having a loss. [[Zoltán Gőgös: Secretary of State, stop fooling us. Noise, interruptions in the ranks of the MSZP. The president's ringing the bell.]] Please, the MNB actually has a profit. [[Zoltán Grimlock: From what?]] The question may be what happens to this profit. Here let me say that, as many of us have done on the government side, Minister Varga did on the presentation of the 2017 budget, so let me say that monetary policy and fiscal policy are divorcing, independent of government central bank activity determines what will happen to the profits of the central bank. [[Zoltán Pride: To spend money on stupidity!]] and factually stated that the central bank had a profit. This means a lot to all of us taxpayers, there were years when we had to make a very serious deposit. [[Zoltán Grimlock: And what does that mean for foreign exchange lenders?]] to the central bank. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-04-26-159	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, I've always given the word to everyone when they come in line, and I'm asking you to keep it. Dear Parliament, We will continue with the speeches. As no one has applied for another two-minute speech, I give the floor to Congressman Vas Imre, the Fidesz Group. [[Turning to Zoltán Gőgös, who consulted his fellow Members:]] With all due respect, I would like to say that Congressman Vas Imre has just been given the floor. Here you go, Congressman. [[Zoltán Grimlock: He only reads, he doesn't talk!]]
u2016-04-26-160	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, My constituency, which includes a significant part of Józsefváros and Ferencváros, is the area of Budapest's most dense health institution network, where in recent years health developments with constantly and explosively increased budgets provide health care to the population of not only the Ferencváros and Józsefváros, but also the entire capital and the agglomeration. I highlight some significant investments in the current parliamentary term, which are all investments above half a billion forints. In the country's largest heart medical centre, the National Institute of Cardiology, modern digital X-ray units for the rapid diagnosis of heart disease were purchased for HUF 1 billion. The energy rationalization of the main building was made from HUF 651 million. In the Heim Pál Children's Hospital Üllői út block, operating as a paediatric centre in Central Hungary, we spent nearly HUF 576 million on energy investment, energy efficiency and solar system construction. This is part of one of the biggest development of children's health in the last 35 years, in which nine buildings of the hospital were renewed from a HUF 1.2 billion development. [[17.50]] The building energetic development of the Ferencváros site of the Szent István and Szent László Hospital in 2015 and the technological replacement of the obsolete MRI and X-ray diagnostic equipment were made from 1.4 billion HUF. The building of the Saint Kozma Health Centre in Aurora Street, which is maintained by the Józsefváros Municipality, was reborn with a HUF 1.5 billion investment, complete external and internal building energy renovation, modern medical instruments, modern automatic patient management system, and a new wing was also built for addictology and lung care. In the framework of the Korányi project, the most important health development of the last hundred years of the University of Medicine is realized from HUF 8.1 billion. A new seven-storey emergency centre with very high technological standards awaits delivery in the area of the clinical block of Üllői út. The new building with a helicopter landing track will serve the population in a unique central intensive care unit in the country. These health developments speak for themselves, and they demonstrate that the civilian government is constantly replacing resources abstracted from health care during the governing of socialists and liberals, as well as underdeveloped developments. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-04-26-161	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Statement by Mr László Teleki, MSZP Group. Here you go.
u2016-04-26-162	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Flórian Farkas, who represents the Roma in Hungary, is missing from today's debate, because I think it would be important that in such a national issue, he also gives his opinion on what he thinks. But I also miss Félix Farkas, who holds a very important position and is a Roma representative, because I think that it would be important to highlight the health situation of the Roma in Hungary, whether from a pro-government or from a opposition side. That is why I, as an opposition representative, have to give some thought to the health situation of the Roma in Hungary and their chances of really surviving the chaotic state which, by the way, is caused by health care without its own fault. The more pro-government politics triggers the health Calvary that we can see, because whether it is the state of hospitals or the emigration of doctors or the emigration of nurses, all of them, I think it is a political issue that we do not see anything change. Returning to the Roma issue with a few thoughts. I think that when various extras are mentioned, they forget to say that there are vulnerable ethnic groups such as the Roma in Hungary, who are now nearly a million people in Hungary, and every second person will not have TB, so there will be no social security. I would ask the Secretary of State, the representative of the government, what they are doing in order to ensure that the Roma in Hungary in the geographical area where there are multiple disadvantages, not only the Roma, but also the poor people, what they are doing in order to cope with this situation, because I see that there is no cure for this, that in most cases people who are otherwise in such a situation will receive, except for their own fault, some kind of cure and health care that they can otherwise survive the disease they are in. The next is that I think it is also very important to say that the government has adopted an action plan for Roma integration, including the health programme between the five points. I don't see prevention in the health program, I don't see it at any level. Because the public foundations that you mentioned many times before 2010 have been removed from the public foundations from which the prevention programmes could be called and applications could be launched, either to Roma national authorities or to Roma civil society organisations, from which they could spend on prevention. Today we cannot see how the situation in the area of health can be dealt with in the Roma circles. What we see is that the tendency to eliminate these call for funds, primarily through public foundations, has led to a rapid decline in the lives of Roma in Hungary. You know the statistics, you don't have to tell me what the statistics are. The average Hungarian person lives at 72 years of age, while this is the last of the Roma in Hungary, based on research by the Hungarian Academy of Sciences, between 55 and 60 years of age. So the Roma die in Hungary 10-12 years before the non-Roma die. I think that this is the only statistical data, and this issue must be addressed by the government, if everyone in this country is equally important, then there can be no question that there is something to be done in this matter, nor can it be a question that today just because someone is born somewhere, he should die 12 years before his other partner, who does not live his life as a Roma. Therefore, the government has a lot to do on the Roma integration issue, and it has a lot to do with equal opportunities, because I think that if there are no points on this issue that reassure the Roma in Hungary, then there is no way in the complexity of the other issues that we can see that integration has started in Hungary. Because the deterioration of health is a matter of process. In most cases, it is because there is no solution to the housing situation, there is mostly no employment issue, and that is why there are depressive diseases, and that is why there are narrow blood vessels, and that is why there are cancer diseases that are very difficult to treat within the Roma society, and not only because it is in the spirit of cultural diversity, and they do not dare to go to a doctor, and they do not want to go to a doctor many times - this is the tendency they often say - but because it is because it is really the basic medical supply that is in the region of northern Hungary, Central Hungary, that does not allow these poor people who are exposed to equal opportunities for access to health. I therefore believe that the government has a responsibility to ensure that everyone is truly born equal in this country, because if they are not, I do not think that it can be said that the government is legitimate among Roma communities. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2016-04-26-163	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Mr Zsolt Csenger-Zalán, Fidesz Group, will be taking the floor. Here you go.
u2016-04-26-164	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Listening to the debate, Mr Dániel Z. Kárpát has already responded to our fellow Member, Minister of State Banai, but I would add two small additions. Let us not forget that, obviously, between 2009 and 2013, the statistics of doctors working abroad may have grown spectacularly, but let us not forget that we have been free to work in the European Union since 2011 for Hungarians as well, and this is certainly a welcome part, at least this part of the matter; that is why we have fought. And the other part is that there are a lot of people who are also tax collectors of this demand, of this movement. Mr Dániel Z. Kárpát, if he had turned around a little, he could have obtained information about this from his fellow Member, since he is in the company involved in medical exports. Well, that's not really what I wanted to talk about. Here, a Prime Minister has already spoken to the debate, and then there was a TV debate in which he denied a visitation fee and a prescription fee, of course, since then, everyone knows that, and we know that it was a lie. But let's not forget that there was another prime minister's debate before, namely Péter Medgyessy had a lucky saying back in 2002, that he talked with almost tearful eyes about the rotten plumbing in the basement of the Kazincbarcika Hospital, and then he did nothing in the world on government. In eight years, the socialist-liberal government's progress beyond horror and misconception could be accurately perceived by us, who then took over the government, in the state of health care at all. Since then, we have spent 500 billion forints on these developments, what Péter Medgyessy talked about with tearing eyes, on the rotten pipes of iron. [[18.00]] We've been repairing hospitals, repairing instruments, diagnostic equipment, and renovating. Coming back to my own constituency or a little more to the county of Pest, or a few words about it, my colleague Péter Harrach has already mentioned that, also thanks to the socialist-liberal leadership, the region of Central Hungary, by being together with Budapest, cannot obtain virtually a penny of EU money. Only there is the agglomeration of Buda, in the vicinity of Buda: the hospital in Vác has been renewed, however, there has been serious investments in the main building of the Vác hospital. Today we can say that each ward has its own water block, its own bathroom. I know, of course, that this could be little and much more, and it is not enough that the entire heating system has been renewed, or I could also mention the Turkish Ballin lung sanitarium, where serious improvements have also been made. So again, I know that this is little, that much more could be done or much more should be done precisely in health care. Year after year, the ratio that we invest in health care is increasing, and we do not freak out, we do not talk about it, but we do so step by step, but we move forward. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause from the pro-government ranks.]]
u2016-04-26-165	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Mr Ander Balázs, Mr Jobbik Group, will take the floor. There you go. You have the floor.
u2016-04-26-166	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, If somewhere the 19th is true, 20th century German metaphysicist Schopenhauer, who claimed that health is not everything, but without health everything is nothing, then the place is Somogy County. The Somogy County, where we especially feel that the people living there feel as in the novel of Charles the Great, in the novel The Fortress Forgotten, when Field Marshal Fleurion's cigar ash hit the map, they multiplied this map so many times, and everyone forgot about Fort 103. Well, that's how the South Somogy people feel, by the way. The county, which in 1498 was the first county coat of arms in the county line, is likely to be the first to give the key if we look at the human reproductive disaster that is inseparable from the health situation and is linked to a thousand fibers. In other words, the Hungarian reforms of Fidesz do not work in this county either, and if everything goes on like this, Somogyország will eliminate itself with a noble simplicity. I would like to quote an OECD survey. According to this survey, 34 member states of the organisation were ranked according to a complex health indicator on a scale ranging from 1 to 10. The first points were between Japan, Switzerland and Australia, while Slovakia and Hungary scored only 1.6 and 0.4 points. The results of the Transdanubian region, including Somogy County, are even more horrifying. Obviously, there are complex reasons for this. We talk a lot about the importance of basic supply, which has to have a huge relevance in a county with social characteristics such as Somogy, because three quarters of the 246 settlements here are small settlements under 1000 people, about 50 percent of the small villages under 500 people, and one quarter of our villages are sack villages. However, the infrastructure supply in the ageing region is disastrous. It is a very good and legitimate question that we can talk about prevention or the right to access in such a situation. It is no coincidence that the number of births is lower than the national one, and that we produce worse results in mortality indicators, as, for example, death is rich in the Csurgo district of my constituency, because mortality is one and a half times the national average. The county's population loss is also one and a half times the national average, but in Csurgo district, the weight loss per 1000 people is already two and a half times higher than the national level. If there is, there is an urgent need for state intervention here, because the population's decline has almost escalated to epidemic proportions. It must be recognised that there is a clear link between the economy and population, so because of the low birth rate and critical mortality indicators, we can talk directly about a human resources disaster with all its educational, social and health impacts. In Somogy, men 7 and women live for less than 5 years than the EU average. This is why the real national consultation launched by Jobbik is of particular importance here. Our county's positions in general health care are dramatically deteriorating. We are the last in the line of Transdanubian counties. Here are most of the 15 unfilled practices, including the already empty residential mixed districts. In addition, the numbers were highly cosmetic, as several doctors as replacements - obviously as long as they can hold energy - could take a second district. But this lack of a doctor - many of us have already said so - will only increase, since most of them are in the area of retirement or retirement age. The same is true of young staff, they also disappear; they do not retire, but they migrate to Western Europe, where much better conditions and much better wages await them. But we can also talk about the fact that the three largest hospitals in the county of 300,000, Siófok, Nagyatádi and Kaposvár, once again, are in front of such a 1.5 billion-dollar debt. There would be room for a hundred billion missing from the system. Although we know that the interests of friends and their extra profit are far ahead, the problem is that the poor rural population in the slaughter of vassals is the sheep, they are considered sheep. Of course, we do not want to deny that the small hospitals in the countryside, such as Marcali, in Somogy County, were also subject to significant investments. For example, the Kaposvár County Hospital or Barcson, which was built in my residence, is an outpatient outpatient center. But it does not forget that waiting long for specialists or waiting for surgeries in shiny new buildings is also not a good thing. Unacceptable, for example, when a patient is told that he can operate on the spinal hernia when his feet become black. The last time I heard that was in Csurgo, I heard it in a public residential inn class. We know that we are very far behind here in Somogy, my honourable pro-government fellow Members, but it cannot be forgotten that from the average pensions of just 100 thousand forints and 80 per cent of the average national salaries in the county, if there is decent work and not public work, the average citizen who wants to meet the expectations of a healthy lifestyle is in a very difficult situation. I request that all of this be taken into account and that the best proposals be heard in the budget. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2016-04-26-167	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, We now have two-minute speeches. I give the floor to Mr Nándor Gúr, MSZP Group.
u2016-04-26-168	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I can see that Secretary of State Benő Banai is handling the data with sufficient political bias. He is happy to talk about GDP developments in 2005-10. You can also talk about a 17-percent increase in 2002-2005, and then you can talk about eight years of what it looked like overall. Now, I'm just saying that you shouldn't be doing things that can be disproved in seconds. As my colleague Józsa said, your reputation is not lifted up and blown up by everything he does in the charm of numbers. You know, he's talking about wage developments here in 2017. Look what you've been doing in health care for the past year to raise your basic wage. Nothing. Look what they did between 2010-14. I'll tell you that if you don't know, I'll tell you: you've made an increase of 19 thousand forints in these four years, while in those eight years there was an increase of 51,000 forints, 36 thousand forints in those first four years. You know, you should know that if you convert that 36 thousand forints into today's value, that means 67 thousand forints. Well, let me know if you're going to do more than 67 thousand forints in health care over a four-year cycle, and then you're going to have to make the arguments as if they were in place and correct. You know, talk about it if, at the level of the European Union, the level of this investment will not decrease in Hungary, in addition to the growing investment in health, which increases in GDP rates. You know, talk about it if in 2015 the number of people who received an official certificate to get a job abroad is almost 2000 people who are reluctant to talk about it. And, you know, almost half of these people are 25-35-year-olds. Anyway, if you can give me fair, fair answers, I'd be happy to hear your reasoning. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[It's a rare applause from the benches of the MSZP.]] [[18.10]]
u2016-04-26-169	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, As no one has applied for a further two-minute speech, we will continue to speak. I give the floor to Congressman Zoltán Tessely, Fidesz Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2016-04-26-170	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen of the State Secretary. Fellow Members! As a representative of the 3rd constituency of Fejér county, I would first like to give an overview of the outpatient care of the head office, Bicske's specialist outpatient care, and finally to make a request. Bicske is a small town with 12,000 souls in Fejér County, in the heart of Pannonia. However, the operation of the city's entire municipal-owned non-profit centre is well beyond the boundaries of the settlement, since the Bicskei Health Centre also provides higher quality health care for people living in the settlements of the Bicskei, Csákvár and Zsámbéki Basin, Etyeki Hills and St. László Creek and Váli Water. The municipality of Bicske, bearing in mind the interests of the population of the city and its catchment area, took over from the county in 2004 the tasks of outpatient care, which were operated by the county municipality according to the regulatory environment at that time. I would like to draw attention to the fact that, at this time, socialist country leadership and socialist majority county management were established, yet - or perhaps for this reason - the institution was characterised by an incredibly neglected, low-quality hygiene and professional quality. After the takeover, he managed to set the city's specialist care on a course of development. The former few, barely ten professional clinics soon provided and provide good quality care in nearly 30 professions. However, the management of the city is not satisfied with this situation, so it has successfully started and won the KDOP 2.5/1/B tender, and has started to expand and complete the health centre with significant equity expenditure. However, in view of the fact that loyalty to the regional socialist government was a great advantage to individual municipalities during the evaluation of the tender at that time, the city of Bicske was not able to compete effectively with its most established professional programme against its competitors, the cities with socialist ties. The amount of aid received was thus only sufficient for a fraction of the total investment. Given the scarce resources, the entire development programme could not be implemented in one step, it was necessary to schedule and split into parts. Recognizing the requirements of the age, the city of Bicske established overnight surgery and daytime hospital care at the first stage, as well as the reconstruction of childcare facilities and protective services. Just as at the time of receiving outpatient care, the aim of the owner's municipality was to bring the most complete, at the same time definitive, medical services to the patients. As I have already mentioned, the municipality has provided some HUF 152 million from its own resources in addition to the repayment of the loans it has received and the non-fulfilment of the tasks it has undertaken voluntarily, but for the necessary elements, it has provided some HUF 152 million in addition to the HUF 374 million grant it received. The correctness of the city's decision was later confirmed by the State Audit Office's report, which summarized the results of the comprehensive examination of one-day surgical care. In this organization, the organisation found that one-day surgery is a form of care that only benefits all concerned - the patients, the patient's family, their workplace, social security and healthcare. Since the opening of one-day surgery in 2011, the population's expectations and maintenance expectations have been confirmed. Using the available funding framework [[Dr. Gabriella Selmeczi: Time!]] In this organization, the organisation found that one-day surgery is a form of care that only benefits all concerned - the patients, the patient's family, their workplace, social security and healthcare. Since the opening of one-day surgery in 2011, the population's expectations and maintenance expectations have been confirmed. Using the available funding framework (Dr. Gabriella Selmeczi: Time!) more than 1,500 surgeries are performed by the doctor of the institution each year, serving well the patients of Bicske and his surroundings, ensuring easier access to them, providing care to the general public (Dr. Richárd Hörcsik is jogging his glass. ) practical compliance with its health policy ambition. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-04-26-171	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Statement will be made by Ms Anita Heringes, MSZP Group. Here you go, Congresswoman.
u2016-04-26-172	Thank you very much for the floor. Dear Secretary of State, Dear House, When the Secretary of State took over this wallet and became Secretary of State for Health, he was given no small task, because he was right, he did not receive any extra money, but he got an extra task and this whole mess that is in health care today in Hungary, so he got it in a package. The main reason that this was a difficult task was that Mr Gábor Sombor's knife had already broken into this task, and he said at a conference that the sector should be freed from the trap of politics and that consensus should be sought in this area. I think that the Secretary of State is right in this regard, because this is the question that concerns all people in Hungary today, it does not matter whether they are right-wing, left-wing, conservative, liberal, health care is one of the areas that no family can avoid in addition to education. Normally, you get into public health, right now you're facing the situation that's there, and you're desperate. A few speeches ago, we saw and heard the debate that people, let us say, must pay to receive health care. And, unfortunately, most people pay out of fear and pay in advance, which is disappointing because most people can't do that anyway, and put their last pennies there, just to trust that they're sure they're gonna be okay, or they're gonna get the care they need, besides the fact that people working there are really putting their soul and heart and everything in this area, they're just not paid at a level that's really tragic. For a beginner nurse, if both parents, husband and wife are nurses, it is, frankly, very difficult to start a life today, and it is very difficult to start a child today, because these 80-90 thousand forints are no longer available to what would otherwise mean life. And the big question, my fellow Members, is whether life in Hungary today is for a young couple to pay their cheques, pay off their remaining currency loans, pay off the food they need, and pay the rent and the cost of rent, and there is no money left for life, I think that you do not imagine such a future for your children, and that is not the kind of future and vision we should imagine for those people whose lives and the lives of our family members we put in their hands. After all, health care is the place where one is most vulnerable, because it is when one is the most vulnerable, and when one's family is in this situation, when they feel that he needs help most, and there is no other option than to trust people who really - I would like to say it again - out of the power and out of the power. This is the topic in which I have raised the issue of chronic beds many times, and I have not yet received a completely reassuring answer in this area, unfortunately. We know that chronic beds are now being transferred from the medical register to the social register, because it is the opinion and attitude of the specialty today, the policy, that it is not primarily the need for health care, but the need for social care. [[18.20]] I have already said this in the Medical Salad Act that I personally know a man, in our family there was a person who, if he had been given regular health care as an elderly person - of course his primary illness was due to his old age - and he was surrounded by doctors and nurses who did everything they could for him, he could come out of a chronic inner ward and spend years with his family and live on. Therefore, I do not think that it is a good solution to remove it completely from health care and to throw care into the social sector now, because we cannot give up on these elderly people. I think they've done a lot for us lately, raised us, so they deserve to have everything and get every opportunity. Our big question is that in these classes for these beds from now on, if we just look at the cost of these beds cost 63 billion forints of OEP, if we break it down, 10 thousand forints per bed per day, this will be the amount that the family will have to pay to have these people lying on them. Or what do you expect? Because today, a family's life is very, very penniless, and it's very, very penniless so that they can live. We see that 53,000 people now receive a care fee, and you can feel that they are now trying to fix this care fee after six years, after eight years, slowly, and a little bit more. But it's not about these people who get a nursing allowance, they're at home with their family, and I think they deserve the greater amount of money, even the minimum wage, but I really think it's the healthiest thing to do if they stay in health care, and they really get the kind of care that they need. That's why you're really saying it in straight sentences, Mr. Secretary, about what family members of people on chronic beds should expect. What's the amount you'll be counting now? 'Cause I guess they're counting, 'cause in July, they're planning to introduce the higher prize. What's the amount you have to count on? That's a very big question. Thank you.
u2016-04-26-173	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, Mr László Vécsey, Fidesz Group, will now take the floor.
u2016-04-26-174	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, As a drop in the sea, we see the state of national health in the health care situation of every constituency, and it is no different in my constituency, in the 6th constituency of Pest County. I have two state-owned and operated medical institutions, the Aszód clinic and Flór Ferenc Hospital in Kistarcsa. I think it's appropriate to look on the axis of the past-present-future to see what happened, where we stand, and where we're going. In short, I could say that in 2010, at the time of the change of government, we took over ruins, and since then we have, in essence, been doing a lot of cleaning work. This is most evident in the example of the Aszód practice institution, as the Aszód practice institute went through virtually every tragic phase that the Gyurcsány, Bajnai governments intended for health care: in 2010 it was on the brink of termination, for years it was threatened by the horror of termination, and for years there was little hope of saving it, until the government's very positive decision, in the framework of regional cooperation, in the cooperation of the 60th hospital, the Aszód clinic could also look forward to a safe future, while ensuring a continuous and stable operation. But let's look at the present. Just given the development of the last year, maybe we should start with Asod, which I mentioned. In Aszod there was a very serious energy investment of the order of 100 million, which really covered the most necessary things, windows, insulation. At Flór Ferenc Hospital just in February - I may have asked the Secretary of State this question - a series of X-ray machines, consisting of several machines, with the most modern technology, was handed over to the hospital. Then, about two months ago, we handed over a direct digital recording and scanning device. There was also an energy investment at Flór Ferenc Hospital, the installation of solar panels, and after the patient was the most important person in health care, about 33 employees could participate in a 50 million training programme for patient satisfaction. In view of the future, I thought it was very important and joyful, what the Minister said about the transformation of the health system in Budapest, and I also believe that the five-point programme of the Secretary of State is very important. The complex approach, the treatment with Budapest, is very, very important for us in Pest county, since Budapest and Pest county use each other's services. I would just like to say one number: at Flór Ferenc Hospital, there are levels of progressivity, such as emergency anesthesiology, where a million and a half people are provided by the hospital. So Pest County, the complex treatment of agglomeration and even a larger area, I think it is a very, very good approach and an approach for the benefit of patients, which is a sure future. Finally, but not least: cooperation and a complex approach will always benefit cases. In this respect, I would also like to thank the cooperating local governments, civil society organisations and entrepreneurs in the Aszód region, with whom these investments have been made and supplemented, and, on the basis of Mr Banai's view of the budget, I think that we can also say to the employees of our Flór Ferenc Hospital that everyone can take a step forward on the basis of next year's budget. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-04-26-175	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Mr Zoltán Magyar, Member of the Jobbik Group, will take the floor. Here you go.
u2016-04-26-176	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Fellow Members! I would raise the problems of my narrower country, my constituency, your health issues. The case of Csorna has been mentioned several times, but there has been even less talk of Kapuvar here, within the walls of the House. Both hospitals are characterised by a serious impact on both maintenance and structural changes, and that is why, in the context of the real national consultation, I visited several general practitioners in the region, I was in the hospital, and many other health-related institutions and places. I am saddened to find that the transformation has become the most serious for ordinary citizens. There are settlements in Raba that fall 50-60 kilometers to the nearest priority hospital, which, by the way, is a miserable road network. This could be life-threatening, you might think it could mean lives. It is worth mentioning, perhaps, that I hosted Mária Sándor and his companions, and the nurse in black was also in Kapuvar on Saturday, and there was so much interest in the region, there has been so much complaint to me that I cannot tell you all of this now, but I am trying to keep an eye on it.From 1887 to 2007 there was active patient care in Kapuvar, and I have to tell you honestly that I have to say something positive to say that there have not been a lot of complaints in the equipment park at the moment, but the shortage of numbers is very felt. It would be a great help to the nurses, as they said, to help even a staff without a major qualification for each shift, who would, of course, not help with the professional work closely, but would be a great help for bedclothes, food distribution, or X - ray monitoring. The release of rest days and holidays often leads to the exhaustion of nurses, which was also mentioned as a serious problem, as is the fact that we are currently in the process of bringing babies, children to Sopron, Győr, or Mosonmagyaróvár at their own expense, crashing in a car and without a qualified escort. But what does that mean in practice? We talked about 36, 40, 50 kilometers. That is why I said earlier that, in Hungary, depending on the settlement, there is no equal chance of accessing the same healthcare services. The nurses said how difficult it is for health care workers to live in a normal family relationship, since 12-hour shifts make it difficult for them to do so. [[18.30]] They also said that a nurse working 25 years has 29 days' leave, two thirds of which the institution also has. They're asking the government to change that, too. The salary, which has been mentioned many times, is also outrageous and untenable. Forty percent of the staff of the hospital in Kapuvar were affected by the minimum wage increase. I think it's a serious and talkative number. Thank you for the opportunity, Mr. President. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2016-04-26-177	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, There are two-minute speeches coming up. I give the floor to Mr István Józsa, MSZP Group. Here you go.
u2016-04-26-178	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I may not even take the two minutes, because it'll probably take me a minute to make the point. The point is that the crumbling system of Hungarian health care today is held together only by the superhuman work of doctors and professionals. The Secretary of State recognises in his programme that he wants to settle the minimum conditions and everyone knows that there are fundamental conditions missing. Some referred to Ignác Semmelweis, who discovered how important washing hands is, and today, even elementary hygiene has no conditions, no detergents or disinfectants, simple things like toilet paper and towels. From multi-resistant bacteria classes and rooms should be closed. Ladies and gentlemen, When you read the little summary of your own district that someone wrote - because some of you could barely read it - I say you should go and see what's really going on and support the Secretary of State so that he doesn't get so much money, but what I'm going to say in my regular comment. [[Happy István: We look forward to it!]] Thank you, Mr. President.
u2016-04-26-179	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, We will continue with the speeches by Members. I give the floor to Mrs Csöbör, Member of the Fidesz Group. Here you go.
u2016-04-26-180	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, As the parliamentary representative of the 1st constituency of Borsod-Abaúj-Zemplén county, I can only confirm what has been said by the Fidesz Members speaking before me and the Fidesz lead speakers speaking before me. However, the criticisms of the opposition about the health situation do not hold up at all. The following will reveal the development of health institutions in my constituency, as well as in smaller settlements such as Alsózsolca, Felsőzsolca, Arnot, Sajókeresztúr or Szirmabesenyő. But in Miskolc, Borsod-Abaúj-Zemplén County Hospital has also been able to achieve the greatest development of its history in recent years. On the other hand, let us ask: where would the health situation be today if the socialists remained in government in 2010? It is easy to figure out, as the socialists, during their previous administration, put health workers on the streets, reduced their salaries, took 600 billion forints out of health care, indebted hospitals, and even wanted to do business on patients. But the kind socialist politicians are still discredited when they are talking about wage increases, because they have never done that. [[Dr. István Józsa: we have raised 50 percent!]] When they were on the government, they didn't do it, not between 1994 and 1998 or between 2002 and 2010. On the other hand, after 2010, during the Fidesz government, health was the first place where the government started a wage increase and will continue to raise wages in this sector this year. Due to the scarcity of time, I would like to list only a few of the improvements that have been made in the health institutions of my constituency. In the county hospital, a 17 thousand-square-metre building block was completed from almost 12 billion forints; the other developments were built around 17 billion starpoint development, worth more than 10 billion forints, of which I would like to highlight the county rehabilitation system for 4.5 billion forints, in which ten more institutions of Borsod-Abaúj-Zemplén county are taking part outside the county hospital. In the Miskolc Semmelweis Hospital, which runs under the name MISEK, almost HUF 4 billion has been developed in recent years. By the way, Miskolc is one of the country's best-organised basic health care systems, as the Fidesz-KDNP city leadership immediately started to develop comprehensive health developments following its entry into power in 2010, resulting in a rational, modern and efficient basic health care system and is developing. So between 2010 and 2015, the city spent more than 856 billion forints on XXI. To provide patients with conditions appropriate to the needs of the century of the century. With the mayor's initiative and municipal funding in Miskolc, the first to integrate the IT system for basic health care and professional care was the first to be implemented in the country, resulting in real-time electronic communication between the actors in the healthcare system. They demonstrate that the Fidesz governments, which have been operating since 2010, have not only neglected health care, but have treated it as a priority, a priority and a priority. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-04-26-181	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr Imre Horváth, MSZP Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2016-04-26-182	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen of the State Secretary. Respecting the professional skills and economics of Secretary of State Banai, I would say that the positive figures he has said in terms of health will not have much impact on the well-being of patients or relatives. I don't think I've offended the Secretary of State. I learned leadership theory a long time ago, but what I learned is that if a reform or restructuring is carried out, the consequence should be that the organisation is operating financially and professionally more effectively in the given sector or in the given field. There have been a lot of comments here, and I ask the question: is today's Hungarian healthcare organisation effective? You can think about that and jump to conclusions. A lot of positive examples were given by the lady who spoke before me. However, I would like to give a negative example of my individual district, Újpest, which has 100,000 inhabitants, but if I count part of Rákospalota and the agglomeration, there is no active care for nearly 150,000 people on the spot. The operation of this hospital actually ceased on 1 November last year, it was transferred to the Honvéd Hospital, and it was the promise from the Secretary of State of Rétvári that instead of the 160 beds, 100 will work in the Honvéd Hospital. I don't know if the 100 beds they promised are working, but a part of a city with 100,000 inhabitants doesn't have an active care hospital. The old Károlyi Sándor Hospital is now being renovated. Six months passed during this time; a football stadium, Groupama Arena, was built in three months. You can compare numbers and times. In this hospital, there's a chronic rehabilitation department that pays. I spoke to the Fidesz Vice Mayor today, and he also regretted that this department doesn't actually work the way such a department should. So much for Újpest's health situation. In many respects the issue of prevention and prevention has been mentioned. What I hear from my friends at the GP is that prevention is cheaper than treating a disease. That's something to think about. I'd just like to give you an example of prevention, of screening. It should also be considered whether I am punishing the doctor financially for the fact that the checked-in patient did not go to the screening. [[18.40]] I say this to Mr Secretary of State: something should be done outside of persuasion so that the patient goes to the screening tests of his own volition. But if you look at salaries, aids, then prevention is not just about screening tests, but also about normal lifestyles, meals, sports. There's been talk of everyday physical education. I ask you, if you don't even have a gym in elementary school, what does everyday physical education look like? I could give you a positive example of prevention, since many doctors work abroad. One Finnish example, doctors working there, tells us that diseases that occur in our home at the age of 50 will occur at the age of 70. I don't want to throw mud at him, my goal is always to speak to him with a better purpose, but about what the result of a restructuring is, I think we should really think about it. Thank you very much.
u2016-04-26-183	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, A speech will be made by Mr Zoltán Bóna, Member of the Fidesz Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2016-04-26-184	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, There is no need for opinion polls, experiments or scientific reasoning to see that there is hardly anything as important to people as health. I am therefore convinced that health is an issue that should always be of particular importance in the short, medium- and long-term objectives of legislation and public administration. Based on my own constituency, the development of the medical clinic in Szentmiklós is a source of joy and trust, which provides basic outpatient care for the 104,000 inhabitants of the region. By 2010, the technical status and the quality of the assets of the Central Unit of the Institute had already been so critically lacking in an XXI. The expectation of a 100th-century health institution that modernisation has become inevitable. We can say that more than HUF 908 million worth of investment is a true success story, thanks to which the institution has evolved into a high-level outpatient care centre and can serve the healing and health of citizens living in the area on a higher and wider scale than ever before. I believe that the overall development and reform of our health system should start at the lowest level, namely basic care. An example of this is an agglomerational settlement, Dunavarsány, where citizens are now provided in a central health home that meets all needs and expectations instead of highly degraded clinics in different places. This development has greatly improved the effectiveness of local health and the quality of life of those living there. At the same time, the self-financing of such a level of investment is not expected in most municipalities. Besides the institutions and their facilities, it is the human force that has the most impact on the quality of health. As an example to follow, OEP's application should be mentioned, which aims to support up to HUF 6 million in support of ongoing GP practices so that as many GPs as possible can start its service. However, we must not forget the failures and dangers that have hindered it since the change of regime, and if we are not careful, they can also reverse the development of health care in the future. During the governance of the socialists themselves, we have already seen what the introduction of a visitation fee will result in, or when health care is being put to the service of not the public, but the enrichment of certain economic groups. Dear House, Serving the health of the people we represent is not only a lofty objective for us, but also an obligation in our Fundamental Law. I therefore urge my fellow Members and the Government to continue our work in one body and soul in the interests of Hungary, drawing strength from our achievements so far and learning from past mistakes. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-04-26-185	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congressman Lajos Rig, Jobbik Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2016-04-26-186	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, The Health Debate Day is about pro-government representatives trying to protect the health care system and the good parts of it that they have been so eager to mention, but the opposition's task is to draw attention to the problems and problems that have been going on for the last six years, and we are talking about only six years. But there is no way to go past the political horse-zung that was brought up during the debate day, although unfortunately, due to the limited time frame, I cannot answer all of them. However, I find it difficult to imagine that you have a selective memory when you refer to HospInvest Zrt., but you also ignore the mention of MediSys Kft., even though you are connected to its managing director, a founder of Fidesz in Körmend, who also worked as Chairman of the Medical Commission in the Vas County Assembly and destroyed several hospitals that MediSys Kft. operated. They have selective memories here. However, it is also very grotesque to be told that a representative sitting in the benches of Jobbik was a customs collector of the medical emigration that you have aroused and that we should look behind. All you have to do is look to the right and to the left, because your mistakes are the cause of these doctors moving abroad. There is a causal link, honourable Members. [[Noise. Happy István's intervention.]] But let's go to the professional parts, because you can see that there are a lot of things you don't know when you're talking about case and assault cars, even though they only gave you a moving medical car. It doesn't matter... [[Happy István: Then the doctors and paramedics obviously don't know how to do it!]] But you can tell a good part of it, and there's an opposition representative here who's saying a good thing. There were 500 billion dollars in investment, and there are two hospitals in my constituency that have benefited from it. Of course, we thank you for that, because it was necessary, there has not been such an investment in recent years. I would also like to thank the Secretary of State for the fact that, as a result of force majeure, he managed to deliver 48 million HUF to Tapolca Hospital, since he owed the municipality two companies that provided for the feeding of children and students. You have to tell me that too. That's the whole thing. You didn't say that once. Many Members have raised the problem that waiting lists have not decreased or even increased. It was said in government communication that 5 billion forints were used to reduce waiting lists. Of course, it is true that surgeries that have accumulated over the years in inpatient care should take place, even within the framework of other institutions. That's right. But let's look at the other side. My fellow MSZP Members have tried to tell me, but not very clearly. On the other hand, in outpatient clinics, the booking time has increased, with specializations that of course visited more often, being used more frequently, including rheumatology, cardiology, dermatology, which is considered a shortage profession. For example, there is experience in my county that at the Csolnoky Ferenc Hospital in Veszprém County, they can make an appointment in advance for a year in order to order rheumatology, and sometimes when they call for an appointment, they say that they should call again at the end of July or early September, and then they may be able to make an appointment in January. I spoke with the Secretary of State, and I hope that there will be a change in this, because this is a huge attack site. We're very happy to work together on this, if there's a way and a chance. It's an asset park. They also said, and indeed it is true, that many new digital X-ray equipment has been taken to hospitals that have been renewed from tender sources. That's the way it is on Tapolca. Digital X-ray acquisition was possible. The machine park has been completely renovated. His lips have been renewed. There was an energy investment. There, they were able to obtain one digital device, although the director indicated her intention to require a double or even three times this, as this is what the increased need for patients requires and is forcing it out of the system. However, despite the need for digital equipment that would help better care for patients, it would speed up the process of having a doctor with a diagnostic background to make sure he had a diagnosis, yet he was offered five bedpan cleaning devices. The only problem is that there's no room that can fit in, because the renovation has already been done, and the bedpan wash can't be done with an X-ray. That's a problem, in my opinion. Maybe you see it differently, it's a different problem again. The subject of day-to-day surgery has been discussed. It is indeed a very working system, a very well-functioning system. In European Union countries, the number of surgeries that can be performed within the framework of one-day surgeries is close to 80 percent, ranging from 5 to 8 percent in Hungary. There is only one problem here that it works within each health care inpatient system where there is active inpatient care, and not only in hospitals that function as a small regional hospital, but also in one-day surgical care and daytime medical care, outpatient care. [[18.50]] I believe that this system can only work if there is a privileged situation in small regional hospitals where this system is already in operation. However, as the Secretary of State said, within a large health care system, only surgeries are performed where there is capacity and experience. Well, where there's practice and capacity, whether it's a gastric surgery or a bowel surgery, those doctors also have the same practice of one-day surgery. I think that if we get lost from one place, we should give the hospitals who are trying to finance and sustain themselves from this. So in Hungarian, small regional hospitals can capacitate from this, which is how they can sustain themselves, but if funding for chronic care is taken out of the system, then these small hospitals will die and can't take it any longer. A few more words about a raise. I worked in health care for 22 years, I was part of the socialist system, I was part of your first government, the second one, and even the third one for a while. I really didn't see the raise. I noticed the raise when I worked three jobs. That's how I supported three children. And you can, yeah, but you have to add that you don't spend so much time at home, and while you're talking about Sunday free, I can count on one hand how many times I've been home on Sundays in a year. This is also your shame, unfortunately, and when they say it, and I trust that the many magical numbers that have been said here - 167 billion, 100 billion forints in the budget for next year - will be realized, but the fear is that if I take 100 billion as a basis, this includes the 60 billion, which is already reaching the total hospital debt, so that leaves 40 billion, which is about as much as they have given so far, zero. I mean, if you'd like to know, I'd be very happy to show the pro-government representatives the hiring tapes, because the medical staff regularly hand them over to me, these numerical figures are authentic, of course I'll cover the name, but if you're curious about it, and you think I'm wrong, here's the evidence, come and see it. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2016-04-26-187	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, We now have two-minute speeches. I give the floor to Mr Nándor Gúr, MSZP Group.
u2016-04-26-188	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Katalin Csöbör received the material, read it, went away, and said that it was all right, and said things that the socialists reduced wages in health care. Secretary of State Banai can either authenticate him or tell the truth. Between 2002 and 2006, we increased salaries in the healthcare sector by 36,000 from 71 thousand forints. [[János Halász: You took the 13th month away. Don't you remember? You voted for it, too. Dr. István Józsa: Plus!]] Then, for the next four years, a total of 51,000 forints, from 71 thousand forints to 122 thousand forints. [[Dr. István Józsa: But you didn't give it back!]] Between 2010 and 2014, there was an increase of 19 thousand forints. Secretary of State Benő Banai, I ask with great respect what is more than half of 19 or 51? I'm not even gonna ask you if, in real terms, I'm not gonna do that, because that's gonna make things harder. Not yours, but perhaps your understanding. By the way, the 19 thousand forints that have now been given in the last four years are worth approximately 10,000 forints. So that's what you guys gave to the medical staff. It's underfunded. Not just in terms of wages. There, but it's underfunded anyway, and there's a lot of disorganization in the system, there's a lot of overload in the system. The number of overtimes is a million. Just like my fellow Member said earlier. It's no coincidence that there are a lot of mistakes. And, well, what we have talked about several times now is that infections, infections most of which could be prevented, infections that should not lead to death, infections that exceed the number of people who died in the traffic accident, should not be in health care if they were to follow, say, the line of proposals of the Independent Health Trade Union and act accordingly. Try this one. Try to think about it and act on it. Mr. President, thank you very much.
u2016-04-26-189	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, The speeches will now continue as they are. I give the floor to Congressman Attila Gelencsér, Fidesz Group.
u2016-04-26-190	Mr President, Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, First of all, I would like to speak to Balázs Ander, who now speaks more than once as if he has a constituency - you have not received any electoral mandate in South Somogy. [[Dr. István Józsa: Of course they did, the people who voted for him!]] No matter how insatiable your desire to finally get a voter's mandate, I would like to say that in the area you are talking about, László Szászfalvi is the congressman, and I think he will stay for a long time. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]] Dear House, Between 2006-2012, I had the responsibility of maintaining the Kaposi Mór County Training Hospital as Chairman of the County General Assembly of Somogy, so let's say that I saw the processes of the period between 2006-2010 and after. We're talking about a million-dollar patient traffic, over 10 billion-year-old, huge central hospital, educational hospital, and I can tell you that the chaos, the decision here and there, the chaotic system, was visible. For example, the intention to privatise in Nagyatád was no longer deniable, the destruction of the operational structure was quite obvious, the operating money did not come and a naughty iron was not available for development in this period, so we could not spend it before 2010. I could also mention the case when Minister Tamás Suchman developed a hospital in the city, and then the hospital closure wave almost closed it. But I would like to say that the period after 2010 has brought a significant change in our lives. First of all, staying in Kaposvár, our hospital received a billion HUF extra money between 2010-14, it went through a consolidation after 2014, i.e. in our current cycle, it received another one billion HUF operating support, and then we did not mention the point, our great pride, that Somogy had 28 billion HUF development in health care. [[Dr. István Józsa: From the Union!]] The last stage development of the Kaposi Mór County Training Hospital last week, on April 21st, we had the pleasure of handing over the oncology infirmary, but I would like to tell you that we can boast of world-class things. Such is the invasive treatment of cardiovascular diseases, which is of paramount importance in our hospital, either the development of our European-level haematological department or the 24-hour adult and paediatric emergency department or the complex oncology centre. But I would like to say that, in addition to Kaposvár, we developed the hospital in Siófok with four billion HUF, two billion in Nagyatádi and 136 million in marcali. Therefore, first, in order to restore credibility, I propose to the socialists an apology for their period, and then perhaps we can talk to each other on a meaningful basis. Thank you for your kind attention. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2016-04-26-191	Thank you very much, Congressman. Ladies and gentlemen, We may be tired at the end of the debate, and I would ask you to make your views known when you are given the floor. Thank you. Thank you for your attention, and now, Honourable Parliament, I give the floor to Mr Péter Benő Banai, State Secretary, Ministry of National Economy. Secretary of State, you have the floor. And I'm probably going to say good-bye to you tonight. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2016-04-26-192	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, Wage issues have been discussed several times, and so is Mr. notary - he is not here. [[He looks up at Nándor Gúr on the way to the notary seat.]] Oh, sorry, in the notary's chair, excuse me, notary, you asked me twice about the wage increases. Allow me to add back to my comment on the question of whether the health measures and wage measures were implemented in such a way that the wage increase was covered or not. My statement was that it was true, as the notary said, that in 2002, as part of the general wage increase in the public sector, a 50% wage increase was granted to all public sector workers. The problem was that this was not covered, not just one year, but permanently. Not only as part of this measure, but also as part of several measures. Again, if you like, let me quote the general government deficit figures as usual: in 2002 it was 8.9 per cent of GDP, in 2003 it was 7.1, 6.4 in 2004, in 2005 it was 7.8 in 2005, in 2006 it was 9.3. [[19.00]] I'm gonna stop here, I'm not gonna go on, and then we're gonna see numbers above 3 percent. So the problem I think is that it was a measure that we all drank, we paid, including health workers. My problem is that these irresponsible measures have led to the fact that the economic crisis has touched Hungary much more than other countries. And it was also the result, as the notary and the Members said, that in the situation at that time, the then government chose, as one of its first steps, to cut wages, to withdraw the 13th month's wage. [[President Tamás Sneider, Vice-President of the National Assembly.]] My personal experience is that after 2010, I was offered this recipe by credit rating agencies. In 2010, the country was in a very serious situation, and many recommended that we continue to reduce wages. With the support of the government, the Parliament, the Fidesz-KDNP, he did not choose this path, he did not reduce wages. On the contrary. A one-off bonus has already been financed in 2011 in health care and a long-term wage increase has taken place since 2012. This is what I consider important, namely the fact that, after 2010, all wage increases were carried out in line with the performance of the economy. We have not increased the burden of future generations, and even our public debt has gradually decreased year after year, since 2011, and in terms of the 2017 budget bill presented today, and the wage measures for the following years in terms of health care, we believe that it is possible to make a substantial wage increase for those who work in health care, contrary to the 2002 increase, lasting, because we see that the performance of the Hungarian economy will enable them to achieve a substantial wage increase. Allow me to reflect on some of the suggestions made by Mr Imre Horváth. Mr President, Mr President, you have drawn attention to issues that I think the Parliament really needs to address. I also consider the increase in wages to be important because it means an appreciation of the profession for those who work there. It contributes to keeping health care workers, nurses and doctors on the track, thereby improving the quality of service. Moreover, there is no doubt that the Government is also seeking to ensure that the system is effective with the chancellor system already mentioned by the Secretary of State. Or he mentioned gymnasiums, the 2017 budget also includes additional resources for gym building. In doing so, I hope that young people can live healthier and that the whole society will truly be healthy. Thank you very much for your attention. [[It's a rare round of applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-04-26-193	Welcome back to my fellow Members. I give the floor to Congressman István Józsa in a normal time frame. [[Dr. István Józsa: Normal or two minutes old?]] Normal, yeah.
u2016-04-26-194	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I was doing two minutes because it made me react for two minutes, what the Secretary of State said. It may be that, in the field of its own field, because it has been involved in budget planning for nearly 15 years in the Ministry of Finance, so it knows these numbers well, you only forget the political decisions that have been called the 13th month's salary, which we have introduced gradually, and it has been the crisis that has taken it away, that the workers have received a surplus income that you have not returned. So, if you look at the average health income of the nominal HUF 71 thousand in 2002 in 8 years, in 2010 the average health income was 122 thousand, this is 72 percent, so a nominal increase of more than 70 per cent, and in five years the average of HUF 140 000 was established, this is hardly reaching 15 per cent. So I understand that you are presenting your thoughts in the spirit of responsible budget planning. I would just like to add that in the framework of the Tao, which does not come into the budget, because a law has been passed that will release the Tao for extra-budget use, the budget has released more than HUF 200 billion. As a result of the voluntary non-payment of the Hungarian National Bank - because the central bank is independent, but Mr Matolcsy is not independent of the Prime Minister - he did not pay more than 300 billion forints, which is not the result of his management, but the result of the deterioration of the forint exchange rate. So the foreign exchange lenders paid the price somewhere, and the Hungarian National Bank skipped it. It was supposed to be a budget deposit, and then there might have been a source. Or what you said about government debt figures, Secretary of State. The government debt increased by HUF 5,000 billion, nominally. On top of that, the government used a $3,000 billion private pension fund in this, let's say, consolidation period, in which you did not accept the credit rating agency's proposal. They probably did the right thing on the part of the lawsuits. But if the government doesn't spend billions on billboards, if it doesn't pay the century's end billions, then it doesn't spend the money on a political decision. [[Happy István: Six billion Paks for you.]] It is not by chance that the chairman of the medical board says that the nurse is no longer going abroad, but is choosing another profession, it has been said here that he is going to be a tram driver; therefore, in Hungary, there are much better opportunities for income with similar qualifications. That is why I say that health care workers personally make an incredibly great sacrifice in order to carry out their work and work in the field at all. But I would like to return to the five points of the Secretary of State, which he has undertaken as a programme, in the context of my normal comment. Point 1 was the development of primary care. I do not know who wrote to the Prime Minister that 40 percent more is being spent on basic care, but that is only true in nominal terms, because this is not at all felt there among those who are in charge of basic care. The primary care suffers from the patient because he has long queues to stand, suffers from the doctor and suffers from the assistant. So the lack of a sufficient number of GPs means that the burden of anyone who works increases significantly. So the fact that you now provide HUF 10 billion as an additional resource, I must say, is alms. That's far from enough. His second commitment was to fix the minimum conditions. This is very, very necessary. There is one other factor in health care that we talked little about, and that is trust. The patient's trust. Because healing in the soul, in the mind, decides whether you believe in it, whether you can heal it, whether you can heal it, or go into the practice, you have to go to the sidelines and find what you can find. You might lose your trust. Not just what you see there, but maybe the rest of the supply. So I very much agree that the foundations should be fixed, and if you would bring me to this, say, a proposal for a Parliamentary resolution in which you ask for a broad mandate, I am sure that the MSZP will also support this. Thank you very much. [[A rare applause in the ranks of the MSZP.]]
u2016-04-26-195	Now for Congressman Gábor Bányai and Fidesz.
u2016-04-26-196	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Roughly three hours ago, Zoltán Gőgös claimed that our doctors here in Hungary, in hospitals, asked for 10-30 thousand forints in advance to treat and cure patients. In effect, he called a large part of the medical community "the villains." This is a general experience and procedure for them, and I would not be surprised if Mr. Gőgös had to use any treatment abroad in the coming months, because Hungarian doctors would not speak to him. On the other hand, István Józsa said that he considered doctors to be the pillar among health workers and that he considered doctors to be the pillars of the country. So decide which statement is true now. [[19.10]] I'm in favour of the latter because that's how I see it. [[Dr. István Józsa: Then it's true!]] That is one of the strong pillars of Hungarian society in the medical faculty and the nursing faculty. So let's tell Mr. Haughty not to insult our doctors. This genre, when we are on such a debate day, is a bit of a fact to the opposition that the glass is either half empty or completely empty, and we say that it is half full. But let's see how this health care stands, for example, in my county, in Bács-Kiskun, or in my existing and won constituency. I would just like to point out that in the last five years we have been able to start and finish 33 billion HUF development in Bács-Kiskun County, on about 50 titles and twenty-two settlements. This also means that 40-50 percent of the infrastructure and equipment park of five hospitals from all hospitals in the county has been renewed, and I would like to note here that, while I was able to be county general meeting president between 2006 and 2010, I inherited a PET/CT machine, perhaps in Sándor Font's speech, which the health government refused to finance for four years. In 2010, the new government, the civilian government, immediately let us finance it, and we were able to examine our patients with the state-of-the-art diagnostic machine, PET/CT. In the same way, we were using another machine that we purchased on our own, namely a laboratory, a cardiovascular laboratory, which is termed DSA lab in medical language, a device that can be used to locate the location and extent of the vascular blockage in the patient and replace the blockage by letting in the so-called stent. Neither was this allowed to be financed, nor was the aid received, but in 2010 we received immediate support for this operation. Before that in Bács-Kiskun, if, say, Zoltán Gőgös or even Congressman Nándor Gúr had been ill, something would have caused him a cardiovascular problem, he would probably have died, but now, if such a problem were to happen in Kecskemét, then the doctors in Kecskemét could save his life. This was also not the case under socialist governments. And then let's look at the upgrades. The hospital in Bács-Kiskun County has become one of the most modern Hungarian hospitals, who walks by, sees, and if he walks within the walls of the hospital, not only in his corridors, but also in the doctors, it is a fact and true that their money is little compared to what they deserve, but yet a very modern institution has been created, everything that has to be in a hospital. The same was the case with the hospital in Kiskunhalas, which, through its development, which was previously a hospital in Hosvenves, was taken over in a robbing state, and here we have a special thanks to my former colleague, László Lukács, who arranged for us to clean them up from there, this place. The hospital that hadn't been renovated before, though 40 percent, was renovated. Two health centers were built in our region: Jánoshalmán and Bácsalmás, which also serves and serves it well, because it comes out of its own power through its operation. Also, in 2014 in 2015, new rescue stations were built with casecars - to quote Rig Lajos -, but they had died a lot earlier in our region because there was no white spot in the county, because the ambulance couldn't reach Kiskunhalas and Baja in half an hour. In conclusion, I would just like to say to Nándor Gúr - I do not know if he is here - who are those Fidesz Members who receive VIP care or any of their family members in any hospital, I would like the list of when, who, where and what he has used, what VIP supply he has claimed that Fidesz Members like to go to such places. And one more question or note: the PET/CT that the socialists bought in Kecskemét and did not finance, was replaced last year, and was supplemented with a cardiovascular PET/CT section. I'm telling you, this is an important investment. And one comment to Ander Balázs: I'm glad he said that the country must be saved from population loss. I suggest you take the lead, because I see you only have two children. [[Ander Balázs: Three!]] Well, three, congratulations. [[Ander Balázs: Botond, Nimrod and Koppany! Thank you so much for the advice. My wife and I are working.]] Then one more, then the country will be discovered. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-04-26-197	I now give the floor to Congressman Bana Tibor.
u2016-04-26-198	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, If you have to give a brief opinion on the health situation, I can say that not only is the house on fire, but it is almost burnt down. In this way, he has announced the real national consultation of Jobbik, and in this context we have continued our consultations over the past months, and we will do so in the next period. Unfortunately, given the shortness of time, I can only bring you a few questions, but I am trying to talk about the most important problems. There's a lot to say here on debate day. I would like to begin with the question of the hospital in Körmend, since in 2012 you ended obstetrics and active internal medicine in my hometown, Körmend. [[Dr. Csaba Gyüre: Shame!]] Since then, we can actually talk about various developments, now we have a fourth date for the current renovation, and there is a promise that 20 active medical beds will work in the hospital, but from fidesz circles it has been clearly stated that there is no need to restore obstetric gynecology. In fact, there were a lot of people in the constituencies who stood up against the layoffs, and then, recently, we started another collection of signatures, where thousands of people also joined the case and said that there was a need for obstetrics and gynecology in the region. Unfortunately, the situation is not much better for the hospital in Szombathely or Celldömölk, there were serious cuts in Celldömölk two years ago with the elimination of active internal medicine and active surgery, and we had to experience in Szombathely at the end of last year that mothers were on the ground in the infant and paediatric ward. We also held a press conference with Péter Balassa, our Assembly Representative there, and, fortunately, positive processes started afterwards. But I also have to bring the rescue stations here. Now, in the spirit of national consultation in the county, in my constituency, I have visited several rescue stations, and I have done so before, and I would definitely bring the case of the rescue station in Kőszeg here, because the city would need a new rescue station. And Celldömölk was promised a new ambulance years ago, but unfortunately it has not arrived since then, so I would like to ask Mr Secretary of State to take effective steps in this direction as soon as possible. In the spirit of the VNK, I have consulted several institutional leaders, and there have been professional issues such as proposals to reduce waiting time, support for professional services with a view to relief of charges, and reform of the code system of funding. Then, with regard to GP and pediatric practices, we have the experience in the county that there are a lot of unfilled practices, such as Szentgotthárd in the case of pediatric practice, and many doctors, even in the specialist clinic, do their work with a pension. Thus, the lack of a doctor is also a priority on the western ends. I also have a question for the Secretary of State about the health development offices about what the plan is for these, as they have started in more settlements than we have, but since then we have not seen what the exit is going to be. Wage development would certainly be necessary overall, the primary care workers have been left out of this anyway, but I would also bring the women in this context anyway. Unfortunately, it is also important to see that the lack of qualified professionals, the lack of pay and the lack of due respect are serious problems in ambulances, even though it can be seen that these people are doing everything they can for us on holiday, for all of us, for our loved ones, and that is the same for hospital workers, doctors, and women of protection. This should be settled, as should the status of paramedics. Finally, I would like to go back to what I said at the beginning of my speech: the experience of collecting signatures in the constituency also confirms the need for obstetric gynecology in the city of Körmend, so I ask the government to return this to the city without delay. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2016-04-26-199	Since there is no need for a two-minute comment, we will continue with the normal comments. I give the floor to Congressman Tamás Vargha, on behalf of Fidesz.
u2016-04-26-200	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, My city, Székesfehérvár, is also in the economic sense of Central Transdanubia, perhaps one of Hungary's strongest and most advanced cities. This economic force is also important in terms of the professional concept and financial opportunities of the county's most important health institution, the University of Fejér County's Szent György Educational Hospital, as our hospital is the most important hospital in Transdanubia, which is of outstanding strategic importance in terms of the Lake Balaton-Velencei-Székesfehérvár-Buda axis. An institution with a history of more than 100 years provides a fundamental moral and professional basis for the work done in the service of patients to be done effectively by doctors, nurses and staff working here. The hospital employs some 3,000 people, including over 400 doctors, more than 400 nurses and 900 assistants to help with the healing work. 1047 active and 455 chronic and rehabilitation beds each year provide more than 60,000 inpatient care, healing in the institution, and 1.6 million doctor-patient meetings take place at the specialist clinics. Since 2012, our hospital has been the university teaching hospital of the University of Pécs, an accredited training center, and as a result, there has been a significant increase in the number of medical residents in the institution. [[19.20]] Since 2010, the Hungarian government has helped the hospital reduce its debt by more than HUF 7 billion, and a number of large-scale improvements have been made, including some of the most important ones: 8 new clinics and investigators have been developed to improve emergency care and we have also been able to transfer new emergency infirmary units. The thermal renovation of the clinic and the diagnostic building was carried out in order to save energy. The perinatal intensive center has also been developed to increase the risk of life in newborn infants who are premature and in need of intensive care. It was also a major investment in the construction of a new surgical block with a surface area of nearly 6,000 square meters, bearing the name of the director general of Dr. Zoltán Berzsenyi's martyrdom. We can remember that this was the HUF 8 billion development that the socialist government before 2010 removed from the list of developments with a noble simplicity, and it was only due to the decision of the newly formed Orbán government that the block was built. We also handed over the psychic renovated building. Overall, nearly HUF 14 billion of financial development has been implemented since 2010, and within the framework of the programme of the Modern Cities, the government has decided that we will have HUF 7 billion to build a new medical block in the coming period, and this will enable us to further build the development concept that has already begun. We have no doubt that all these developments and future developments would have been one of those which would never have been achieved if the socialists had continued to govern after 2010. Therefore, we are proud to say that the high level of professional work of staff at the University of György Fejér County is characterized by vocation, cooperation, empathy, mutual understanding and the preservation of the dignity and health of the people, and they undertake this superhuman service with devotion and dedication, and we thank the doctors and nurses without whom health care could not work, because it is the nurses who give and give humanity to the patients in hospitals beyond bed and professional care, and we in Fehérvár thank them for this service. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-04-26-201	I now give the floor to Gábor István Harangozó on behalf of the MSZP.
u2016-04-26-202	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear fellow Members, I'm not going to talk about theory, but, if you like, I'd like to show you through a case study in Somogy County, how well the health system that you've been talking about for hours, how great it's been transformed, how much money you put in it and how fantastic it's been. In 2013, a decision was made to integrate the Marcal hospital into Kaposi Mor Hospital in Kaposvár. When this decision was made, I would quote, I also interpelled the Ministry several times in this case, and I also wrote a question, and on one of my interpellations, Secretary of State Bence Rétvári found that this was because they wanted to provide basically high-quality, high-quality, equal-access, patient care for everyone, so that there was no difference between different parts of the country. That was reason one. Second, they did not see a chance for the hospital to pay off the 250 million HUF supplier's debt that was accumulated in the hospital; thirdly, the right quality and safe care requires the purchase of a new CT equipment, and the hospital cannot do so on its own. Basically, Bence Rétvári explained the same reasons a little longer. Let's see what's happened since then. Dear fellow Members, Since they moved to the hospital in Kaposvár, a significant number of doctors have left the hospital since either they moved to Keszthely or moved to Kaposvár to work or simply went abroad. What we need to see right now is that the hospital is having a very serious shortage of staff. Children's ward's gone. The orthopedics only have orders once a week. Urology is ordered once a week, in diabetic care, twice a week, twice a week in ophthalmology, with waiting lists of several months. Oncology takes place two times a week and three times a week in rheumatology. Let's look at what happened to the debt stock, because obviously it shows that the quality has not improved, that there has not been a more equal access, because these services, health services are not available to people in Marcali and the area, and they need to travel to Kaposvár, where otherwise there is no normal road connection. Because they were able to appoint a road safety officer, but they couldn't build a path to him, even though they announced their great road-building program! So it takes an hour and a half to travel, and public transport is what it is, so it takes up to one day to use these health services. So it's not true that it's a better service. What happened to the debt? The Director General of Kaposvár Hospital informed us in response to an interpellation by representatives of Kaposvár Hospital dated 13 April 2016 that the hospital in Marcala has been in debt of half a billion forints a year, not 250, but twice 500 million forints since it was integrated into Kaposvár. So it didn't decrease, the hospital's debt doubled, despite almost everything being transferred to Kaposvár. So this argument didn't work out very well, so that didn't work out very well either. As for the county, I asked about the county's debt to hospitals, which on 12 February 2016 was HUF 1.5 billion for Kaposvár, HUF 340 million for the hospital in Siófok and HUF 260 billion for the hospital in Nagyatád, i.e. more than HUF 2 billion for the hospital in Siófok. Wow, you guys have made a very good system. Congratulations on that. Then we were informed by the Director-General that the institution could not compete with the opportunities that exist abroad in terms of wages or other benefits, so they did not see the opportunity to resolve the situation. Then he informed me that the CT device would cost 100 million forints of investment, and unfortunately it would require a qualified colleague who could operate it, but the number of radiologists remains one, and the fact is that now the CT colleague seems to be leaving Kaposvár, so there is also a question of how they will manage it. Marcali won't have a C.T., even though they got investment money, because there's no man for it, and now he might not even be in Kaposvár. Great. The system they put together is working really well. Then he informs us that the ophthalmic practice is to be waited six months in Kaposvár, so let's not complain that Marcali has to wait six months. OB had to be closed because in 2012 you made a decision that where the annual birth rate is below 500, there will be no obstetrics. You're trying to promote demographic growth, so you can get out of Marcali's neighborhood to Kaposvár and all of Somogy County. Great. This is also a very well-functioning measure. Ladies and Gentlemen, Just to cut my speech short: until you raise the wages of health care workers by at least 50 percent immediately, and at least the missing 600 billion forints will not be put into the health system, we will be talking about all sorts of theories here, but it will not work what you are doing. Well, there's got to be some collateral. Although you are constantly proclaiming that Hungary is performing very well, the regional average in the last six years has been 20 percent increase in GDP, with 9.5 percent in Hungary. But, fellow Members, this is an extra 3000 billion forints. Then you pled 3000 billion forints of private pension funds, that's 6,000 billion forints. So why don't you have money for health care? Where's the money, fellow Members? Where's the money, Mr. Secretary? [[19.30]] Let me tell you one more thing. According to last year's KSH statistics, the net average wage of healthcare physical workers in Somogy is HUF 57 580. [[Dr. István Józsa: Shame!]] Do you have the nerve to tell Matolcsy here in Parliament that he has the right to raise his salary to 5 million forints because he worked for it? ! What do these people deserve? Less than 60,000 forints net? And what do the people of Somogy deserve? What do they deserve in Marcali? That you're moving everything to Kaposvár and you're not gonna fund it? Is that equal access? For all of us, nothing? Shame on you! It's not health, it's not government! You steal the money, you take it home, and you destroy the country! Thank you for listening.
u2016-04-26-203	I now give the floor to Congressman Péter Csizi, on behalf of Fidesz. [[Dr. István Józsa: Don't say anything.]]
u2016-04-26-204	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I don't know where this warrior stand was on behalf of the congressman when the visitation fee was introduced. [[Dr. István Józsa: He was still here!]] with no other resources available for development at local level. [[Dr. István Józsa: You miss that visitation fee right now, I miss it so much! Secretary of State knows how much I need that money.]] In two ways, this is a good debate day, by the way. On the one hand, you can listen to the communication siren voices made up in the party centers of opposition parties in Budapest, and on the other hand, there is an opportunity to do so. [[István Gábor Bellozó applauds.]] that we, who have received our mandate directly from the people, who are individual representatives [[István Gábor Bellozó: What about health care? Dr. István Józsa: Nothing!]] Let us tell you what has been achieved over the last five years. Honourable Congressman, Five years ago, anyway, health care in Pécs was in ruins. [[Dr. István Józsa: Good, now it's under there!]] In addition to the introduction of the visit fee, you have not been able to register any improvements. In the last five years, we have only made HUF 21 billion in development with the government in Pécs. [[Dr. István Józsa: Tell us about the nurses if there are others.]] together with EU funding, the university and the city of Pécs, by the way. [[István Gábor Bellozó: What you are doing is a disgrace!]] Among other things, the four hundred-bedded clinical block was renewed from 14 billion forints, and we are not just happy about it. [[Dr. István Józsa: You can't see this money on it!]] that new tools have been acquired and, as a result, the quality of supply has improved. In addition, the former socialist large wards could be terminated, and now we can welcome patients in a double or quadruple infirmary with separate bathroom and shower blocks. [[Dr. István Józsa: Patients lead one another to the toilet!]] Besides, the oncology center is being renovated today from 2 billion forints. We are talking about the building on the one hand, the renovation of the building that was handed over 80 years ago, and you can see it, we have accurate statements that in the 80-year period, zero forints were spent to restore the building. So, basically, an investigation was conducted at European level in very broken-down world war conditions. From the 2 billion forints, beyond strengthening the building, he even got the development of a tool park. In addition, we were able to create a central emergency care centre out of HUF 222 million. We were able to spend 182 million forints on ancillary rehabilitation. That's the clinical part. I am pleased to announce that after a decade's shortage of professional services, the Lancs Street office was renewed from HUF 400 million, and otherwise not only the building was renovated in its structure and energy, but not only new tools such as XXI. We were able to buy a century-old ultrasound, but also to modernise the patient management system. So what you said, by the way, is no longer going to happen in the city of Pécs, because everyone who makes an appointment in advance actually receives the care at that time. In addition, we could spend 60 million forints to renovate the general medical districts, buy CT and X-ray machines for 1.2 billion forints, the blood supply center moved to a completely new building worth 1 billion forints, and renovated the rescue station for 30 million forints. This has been the last five years, and we are preparing for the next five years. [[Dr. István Józsa: Tell that to someone who makes 51 grand a month for his work.]] From a TOP source, for example, we're implementing a clinic in the largest housing site you've been promising for 20 years. Thank you so much for listening. [[Applause from the pro-government ranks.]]
u2016-04-26-205	I now give the floor to Congressman Csaba Gyüre, on behalf of Jobbik.
u2016-04-26-206	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Fellow Members! I would like to draw attention to a problem that has caused serious fears in professional circles over the past few years, and I would like to start a little bit from the beginning of the 1990s, from the state's assets, when they have made state companies artificially loss many times, very often put them in a state of bankruptcy. Then what happened? For small money, when it was said that this was not worth operating for the state, then it was indeed privatized by people close to the state, people close to the governments of that time, Kfts, companies, foreigners, and these companies, and they came to a great deal of property. Indeed, it is spooky today that hospitals in health care are in a similar situation as health institutions are in a near - bankruptcy situation. We know how much debt these institutions have, how large a shortage of staff they operate, what a shortage of assets they lack, how much waiting lists there are. Slowly, these things can't work, there are more problems, there is increasing social outrage. Don't give me, God, will it not come from the government's announcement that, well, we don't know, the state can't run this properly, and that should be privatized, too? We see that Fidesz has touched things in the past period through privatisation, which the SZDSZ itself has not dared to touch, which was the largest privatiser in Hungary in the last 25 years, namely the privatisation of agricultural land. He wants to privatize every field, first and foremost, we know very well that the Oligarchs have the greatest wealth. This is also a serious fear of what will happen in health care, whether or not hospitals have been targeted for this purpose. Wasn't that why greenfield investments were built in many places when they invested in high value, and then it would benefit someone, even fidesz oligarchs? Or don't give me, God, will it not happen that the nation's gasman becomes the nation's largest hospital owner? Let's hope it's just a conspiracy theory, and it won't happen, and we hope it won't. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2016-04-26-207	I now give the floor to Congressman Zsolt Tiffán, on behalf of Fidesz.
u2016-04-26-208	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, So at the end of the debate, I would like to be brief and to quote our ancient shaman: in grass, in wood, medicine. I would like to add this to the fact that it is medicine in grass, wood and water. [[Dr. István Józsa: Wine!]] I would like to say a few words on behalf of every doctor and staff working at the Zsigmondy Vilmos Spa Hospital in Harkány, on behalf of a hospital with a long history and which has performed a great deal as a rural hospital in recent years, since we think that it is not a county seat, we are not talking about a county hospital, we are talking about a hospital that has built its activities on the well-known waters of Harkány in the few thousand cities, on a water that has the same healing power as the Dead Sea. So we're talking world-famous water and world-famous healing power. This hospital had a very poor fate before 2010, as the assistance of socialist governments was so irresponsible that, for example, HUF 1.6 billion was taken up as a loan and rolled in front of them. Then the patients, like the visitation fee, were paid back. Then, following the screening of this hospital in 2012, a management has entered the scene, which, after the screening, brought a new colour into the hospital's life, and thanks to this, the Hungarian government has received a HUF 2 billion development, thanks to which both psoriasis and cardiological care have increased. Ladies and Gentlemen, Today, the Harkány spa hospital is uniquely operating a hospital hotel that provides both Hungarian patients and foreign patients with a level of care that is unique in this country. I just want to let you know that guests from both the East and the Middle East and the Far East are welcome in this hospital. One more thing I'd like to tell you. It is this hospital that does not agree with such a crazy, Octonian sentence that it is possible to leave here, because in the last few years, since 2010, only one doctor has not gone abroad to work, stayed here and worked with honor, as have all the people working in health care. Ladies and Gentlemen, The only thing about the hospital in Harkány is that, under the leadership of Director General Iván Péter, there is a medical staff and management that we can all be proud of in my constituency, in my Patria, and which, thanks to the second and third government of Orbán, which has been registered since 2010, has shown great progress and which, in order to further develop a spa hospital, and as a result, people living there, whether in Ormania or in the area, can get a job, and visitors to Harkány will receive a proper cure and cure. To this end, I ask for the respectful help of the Hungarian Government to ensure that the people of Harkány and the people who visit here are well healed. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause from the pro-government ranks.]] [[19.40]]
u2016-04-26-209	Ladies and gentlemen, Two of them applied for a two-minute time frame, but only two minutes and 25 seconds are available for Jobbik to talk, and I couldn't even say two minutes in a row, so I don't know if they're gonna decide which one of them will take these two minutes. [[Dr. László György Lukács: Can't you ask for normal, Mr. President?]] Okay, I'll give the floor to Congressman László György Lukács in two minutes.
u2016-04-26-210	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, Speaking time on debate day is always the same as money in health care, so from now on we may not want to ask for doubles or triples to talk as much as possible. I made a promise to myself, however, that I would ask a question so that the Secretary of State could answer it; unfortunately, we could not say it sooner because of time management and management problems. However, I would like to know what your position is about, for example, why there is still no credible HR inventory in health care, i.e. employee inventory. By the way, I asked the State Health Services Center for these data, and they said that they did not lead such data, that I should go to hospitals, that hospitals were not very well informed on this issue. This is important because it is necessary to see how many people we can provide healthcare with today, currently in Hungary. The other one is a database of hospital infections. When will you be completely transparent, understand? I think it's unfair that you're gonna have to sue a law enforcement organization for that. We need a common database. The third is what the government intends to do with the State Court reports and the criticisms that have been formulated. Today, too, I believe that two more reports have come to light, there is serious criticism. Something has to be done about these issues. I think we have time for a very short closing. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2016-04-26-211	I now give the floor to Congressman István Happy in two minutes.
u2016-04-26-212	Mr. President. Dear Parliament, I think that we can learn a short lesson from today's debate: by supporting the Socialists Ferenc Gyurcsány, even with their applause, they want to make healthcare pay again for the Hungarian people. [[Dr. István Józsa: Only for you! Just for you.]] At Jobbik, there is now an angle out of the bag: after there will be no authentic list for Mr. Luke, so he will not be able to send doctors abroad. [[There's a grumble in Jobbik's ranks.]] Fantastic! His fellow Member, Mr Szilágyi, made it clear that they see business and business in Hungarian health and Hungarian people, which is what they want to see in government. It's Jobbik and MSZP. Thank you very much, I think that Hungarian people do not want any of this. [[Interjection from the ranks of the governing parties: Yes!]] They're asking for the continuous and good development we're making. Thank you very much. [[Claps and interjections from the ranks of the governing parties, including: Bravo!]]
u2016-04-26-213	In a normal time frame and 50 seconds, Congressman Rig Lajos has the floor.
u2016-04-26-214	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I am not trying to make such a pathetic speech as Happy fellow Member, I would rather make a professional proposal, which the Hungarian Medical Chamber had put on the table in 2005, and they had an observation, which I think is absolutely correct, and this should be taken into account: an effective health reform can only be imagined if the sick way is regulated, it is clear to whom what is due, and the care is paid and financed through a budget, at a real price. It's clear, so whatever you're using, pay for it in full. One more thing about the career model: none of the professional branches can be raised from the system, the significant wage planning and the development of a career model should apply to all health workers. You can't discriminate positively, negatively, you have to treat this one and all health workers. That's what we're asking the Secretary of State. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2016-04-26-215	Now I'm just asking the Fidesz faction if you'd like to comment on the debate, as everyone else is running out of time. [[No one's reporting.]] If there is no candidate, I will give the floor to Secretary of State Zoltán Ónodi-Szűcs in 20 minutes.
u2016-04-26-216	Mr President, Dear House, Thank you very much for the floor. I am here for the first time in such a debate, and it has been very instructive to take part in it, and it is quite exhausting, since eight hours have been available to discuss health issues. In this context, there was a rather interesting situation, since the two images that the opposition and the government outlined were not watching the same match. I've been there. [[Dr. István Józsa: But one is the house, the other is the people!]] When I was a basketball player, and I went into the locker room after a game, I sometimes felt like the coach saw a totally different game than what I saw on the field, so it feels kind of weird to sum up this argument from your attitude right now. However, before I begin the closing part, I have a few questions, and I would like to reflect quickly on a few cases. The first thing that was interesting was that there wasn't much debate on the patic issue. From this I can see either as a lesson that the Fidesz government has done well in the field of pacical matters without debate. This means that after liberalisation, we managed to achieve - and I do not know if you know these figures - that, based on the 2014 balance sheet reports, the total profit level of Hungarian pharmacy has reached the last year of peace, and we have achieved this, and I stress that the amount of resources spent in the pharmacy today, the spending of citizens, may have been reduced. This is a very important sentence, I think, because in the past they could only benefit from the margin, but instead we supported them; so that they could be restored to their level of profitability. There was a sentence here that there weren't enough O.R.s, and I don't know, anything else. I don't know about an O.R. that's two shifts in Hungary. [[It's an interrogation from the ruling parties.]] So I don't know what it is when we talk about the lack of surgery in Hungary, it simply doesn't; I have to say that the number of surgeries in surgery is the lowest in Europe today, although I can't tell you now, I can bring you a benchmark, but seeing the huge territorial differences, I can't believe that this number would be well exploited. There was also a list of debts. Look, the thing is, while three years ago we were able to bring together a debt of HUF 5 billion a month, compared to that, debt is now on average around HUF 3 billion, and I have to say again... [[Dr. István Józsa: It stinks!]] - Again, let me just say that at the end of 2014 the industry had a debt of HUF 72 billion, the same at the end of last year it was only 38 [[Dr. István Józsa: But I miss the money!]] and every time there is trouble, the Hungarian government will reach into their pockets and put what needs to be put in them. [[Dr. István Józsa: But we need more!]] Just like you've always done. So, going back to the basic state of origin, I think we need to push the question of credibility when we talk about which picture is true. And I enjoyed listening to Mr Bellozó's performance, the fact is that I cannot perform it, because it is not my place, but it is a matter of credibility. So I... [[István Gábor Bellozó: Dismiss me, Mr State Secretary.]] - I worked in the hospital in 2007 from which 600 workers had to be dismissed because the government forced him to. [[Dr. László György Lukács: Where did they go?]] the hospital [[Intercoms from Jobbik's ranks.]] I'm pretty sure we had to make up 36 percent of the hospital's capacity. [[Dr. István Józsa: Now it's going to be a social hospital!]] It's a matter of credibility, I've witnessed it, I've even been a sufferer of this phenomenon. [[Dr. László György Lukács intervenes.]] So we need to talk about credibility when we speak in Parliament. [[István Gábor Bellozó: Dismiss me, Mr. Secretary of State. That would be the authentic one. Dismiss me. Which one of my statements wasn't true? The president's ringing the bell.]] If you let me tell you, you might actually succeed in disproved. [[Halász János Harangozó to Gábor István: Calm down! Calm down. This role doesn't suit you! Lean back, like that. Defiance in the ranks of the ruling parties. Intercoms. Dr. István Józsa: Nothing looks good on you anymore!]] So, without making a lot of emotional waves, that's the fact, so when it comes to distribution or looting, it's got to be delineated when this happened. There was a partial withdrawal from health care by 2010 and a deposit of money after 2010. Minister of State Banai has also said in a very credible way that it is very easy to raise wages while the budget goes away, it is very easy to raise wages while the country has to take out loans, and then it will have to suffer for everyone who is in this room today. [[Dr. István Józsa intervenes.]] We could ask you how to proceed. There are at least three of those five points that previous governments have either failed or have not dared to enter. If you recall, it was the reduction in the number of beds that led the government back to failure. [[Dr. István Józsa: Now they will make 17,000 shelters!]] So I've had a lot of questions about the social security system, and I'd like to discuss that again. There is no country today in Hungary or, I'm sorry, there is no country in Europe that provides an increased level of care to its own citizens through the health fund and hospitals, and we cannot be rich enough to do so. I think that when we try to face such a challenge, which comes from the ageing of the population, which is due to the fact that the ageing of the age group over 65 has accelerated by two and a half times, since from 1989 to 12, this population ratio has increased by 289,000 people, and now it is growing from 12 to 307,000 people, then we want to meet this challenge. We're not talking about... [[Dr. István Józsa: Bed reduction!]] [[19.50]] We're not talking about wanting to narrow something down. We are talking about creating a form of supply that meets this challenge. When we talk about 27 thousand chronic beds, you should know that a very large part of this is a rehab bed, and it will not even move, because this type of care should belong to health care. What needs to be avoided is what provides care for those in need. I think we can agree in this room that every citizen has the right to grow old in honor. [[Dr. István Józsa: We must build such places!]] This is what we want to do by creating a form within the social care system that has not worked in this country before. That takes courage. No one ever dared touch that. We have the courage to do so because we do not have to make a change along declining sources, as you have done, but we have the courage to do so along expanding sources. Budapest - they're right, the buildings are ruined today. But you don't think the infrastructure here in Budapest has broken in the last six years, do you? When the Hungarian government decided to use EU funds, it also had to decide that it would give itself to this. He did that. Now that this thing is over, we now have the opportunity to think again bravely again in this very complicated, very complex system of what Hungarian citizens need here in this region. I think it also takes courage to put this kind of complex and complex, with lots of interests, into order. [[Dr. István Józsa: That's true!]] I don't think you've had the courage to pick on me before. We will now undertake to plan all the care needed for the population of the capital for five years, ten years, not first to pour concrete or anything else, but to plan what they need, and to adapt all the developments to this; which obviously means that on the Buda side there will be a larger development, as the capacity will be smaller and there will be two other centres in Pest. Again, I stress that patient safety is the priority, as we would like to create three centres where people can receive admission services in every profession every day of the year. [[Dr. István Józsa: Happy workers?]] Chancellor model and debt. I think it can be seen that while the cure grew by more than HUF 200 billion. The size of the register, which means that the institutions have received funds over inflation, while the institutions are interestingly not satisfied, neither you nor the population - and I am not. But it clearly shows that only money can achieve results with this system. Today, the vast majority of decisions are made within the walls of hospitals. I can be here in this place, I think, because in 2011, so I wrote a study a year after 10, about which my own profession unfortunately - how should I put it? - because they didn't want to believe me. Today I can tell you that it seems that the institutions are making decisions in their own interests, not according to the needs of the population. [[Dr. István Józsa: The situation has gone so bad!]] Unfortunately, this study was made in 11th, so it was very difficult to make things worse in one year. This shows that residential use in inpatient institutions is threefold different on a territorial basis. So I stress, I'm not talking about the institution, I'm talking about the population behind the postcodes, regardless of where he went to, which hospital. If you look at how resources are distributed between the small regions, you will see that this is a three-fold difference in inpatient institutions, five-fold differences in outpatients and eight-fold differences in chronicity between the different small regions of the country. [[It's an intervention from Jobbik's ranks.]] For example, the use in Berettyo is higher, or, for example, it is a pity that more people left the faction - even in Szabolcs the use was higher, even though we might have believed that this was not the case. So the point is, if we want the use to take place according to the needs of the population and not to be guided by the institutional interest in Hungary, then there is a need for a model in which someone should be responsible for the care of the population of an area. If this is gonna be chancellor or principal, I think it doesn't matter. But one thing is certain, that decisions that need to be taken where care is to be provided are not to be made within the walls of the hospital. That's what we're trying to do, and that's the second point no one's ever dared to sign up for or fail. Let's talk a little bit about the human resource situation, because there are a lot of half-truths that I'd like to put right here. [[Dr. István Józsa intervenes.]] In fact, there were three topics that were being pushed by the Members of the Council at different times. One is the lack of supplies. In this context, let me say that there is obviously a higher level of medical education in Hungary compared to the OECD average, and we train much more doctors than the OECD otherwise produces elsewhere in proportion to the population. The same doesn't apply to professionals, they're right about that. So our job is to try to get more and more students into this gutter with a scholarship system from next year onwards, and we have to try to get more and more people to see this as their profession. They're right, we're working on it. Departure: I think that there was no migration before 11 because there was no open labour market. I think it's a simple one, I don't have to explain. It is also quite clear that the numbers are not positive, but have changed. While four years ago more than 800 doctors asked for an official certificate for emigration, this number is now less than 500. You're right, it's still a lot, but I'm stressing that we're talking about trends - that's reduced. After all, this government has also set up a scholarship system for residents, and this is very successful. Speaking of migration, I think that this is not a Hungarian problem, it is a global problem, and all countries have to fight it. Doctors from Germany go to America as they go from Hungary to elsewhere. Speaking of which, we've been talking about the chorus here. I would like to ask honourable Members to look at a chorus in Germany as a basic supply. Unfortunately, there's nothing to be ashamed of. That's no better. Ours is not good either, it is true, but we cannot distract ourselves from a European or world order, that is the case. Speaking of wage increases, I would not like to mention once again how much the Hungarian economy will have to bear in terms of the responsibility of raising wages. I think that, thank God, we have also been able to explain to the negotiating partners that we can talk about non-EU wages, because Hungarian GDP is not at EU level. [[Dr. István Józsa: There will never be!]] I trust that we will be there, so that I may be so idealistic that we will reach this level someday. What we are talking about is that from a social policy point of view, we need to ensure that the respect of health workers goes to the same level that is otherwise found elsewhere in Europe within a country. This is what the increase in today's budget is trying to do. I'm glad I have the opportunity to announce this here. So we want to be able to reach the V4 average in at least three steps over the next four years. And my luck is that in this, thank God, I don't really have to convince the NGM, because they are partners in this, but I stress that they can only be achieved if the Hungarian economy does as it has done in the last six years, and not as before. [[Dr. István Józsa intervenes.]] I'm sorry, there was a question like that, and I didn't answer, I'm sorry, I just saw in my notes the question of patient safety. [[20.00]] The thing is, it would be nice if we didn't scare him here, but we tried to talk clearly about numbers. There are very few countries where data on sickness insurance could be obtained as much as in Hungary. In most countries, there is either no data collection or it is incomplete, but this can be seen in Hungary. What the opposition is debating is the following: data can now only be found on websites at national level. The question is whether they should be shown at the level of institutions. This question is important because if an institution does not have to fear that it will receive sanctions, if it means what happened at the hospital, then the content of the report will be much more valid, because the medical office has the opportunity to intervene if there is a problem. I'm afraid and I'm afraid that if the institutions have to compete with each other about who has a better number along a patient safety index, they might as well go as far as not admitting all the events, and I think that's bad for all of us. And when it comes to patient safety - my time is running out, so I will finish it; unfortunately, the congressman has gone out - then here is Somogy County. This is so fun! In Kaposvár there was more than HUF 15 billion in development. There was a huge amount of money spent to provide modern care. I'm asking all of you not to measure the quality of patient care in bed feet, because that's not what it's in. Quality must be measured in the competence of workers, in the modernity and quality of the tools, as this is the essence of European and world-class care. This is currently available in Kaposvár. When we talk about Körmend or Marcali, I would like to say that I myself would not ask my wife to give birth in a hospital where she does not have at least 500 births a year. The reason I wouldn't ask him to do this is because if less than two births happen every day, then the practice of working there is not appropriate. And if patient safety is important to you, don't put your own constituents in a hospital like this. Because I wouldn't. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of Fidesz.]]
u2016-04-26-217	Dear Parliament, The political debate is hereby closed. The 2012 XLI on passenger transport services follows a series of steps. General discussion of the bill amending the law until closure. Presentation by MEPs János Halász and Róbert Répássy T/10297. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, I give the floor to Mr János Halász, the author of the item on the agenda.
u2016-04-26-218	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, The 2012 XLI on passenger transport services. I have tabled an amendment to this House concerning the amendment of law. What is it about in this proposal? Some companies provide services with passenger slow vehicles on a market basis, which are carried out by the transport of persons on the road, but the purpose of the users is not to go anywhere, but to visit certain attractions. In fact, the content of the service is a tourist service, which takes place at a low speed, typically by returning passengers to the point of departure. The provision of this service on the basis of its content is not a road transport service, but a passenger transport service, a tourist service, because the aim is not to change places, but to present sights and in many cases provide cultural knowledge. The regulation of the transport of these vehicles as a special passenger service was justified by the general framework laid down in the law cited above on passenger services. At the same time, it is worth giving local authorities the regulatory authority to establish additional local rules in this amendment. The establishment of general legislative frameworks and the regulatory authorisation granted to the local government serve the interests of all the municipalities of Hungary. Let's see what the current legislation is like. Under the current legislation, the carriage of passengers by slow-moving vehicles is regulated solely by the Ministerial Council Regulation of 89/1988 on road transport services and the operation of road vehicles. It's a very old decree. Article 2 of the Regulation According to Section 2 of the Guidelines, if an entity intends to carry out a passenger transport service with a slow vehicle, it is only sufficient to make a notification to the competent transport authority and to start the activities of the road transport service provider. Therefore, in such a case, a local government will not be given the opportunity to establish the framework that is clearly necessary. This is what the new regulation is trying to do, and I have put this proposal before this House. The planned provisions of the Passenger Transport Act will constitute a new element in that it sets out additional rules for the regulation of these slow-moving vehicles in view of its tourism nature. My proposal creates the concept of a vehicle providing a special transport service. Therefore, its special passenger service vehicle, which would include slow-moving vehicles. These are mainly the known small trains within the city, which roll and sightseeing small trains inside the settlement; the human-powered vehicles, because now there is such a thing as to transport passengers by bicycle or tricycle for tourist purposes; but the same is the case for motorcycling and auxiliary motorbikes if these vehicles provide a tourist service. This category also includes buses which are also used for this purpose, also relatively slowly in municipalities, but my proposal excludes passenger cars from this category. Therefore, the law contains the basic rules and empowers local authorities to lay down the rules most appropriate to local conditions in a regulation for this new category in the case of the concept of a vehicle providing special passenger services. The proposal was also discussed and supported by the Fidesz fraction. With all due respect, my fellow Members, I would like to ask that the bill that we have just tabled be supported shortly after the debate in the vote. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2016-04-26-219	I will ask Mr Zsolt Szabó State Secretary if he wishes to comment. [[Zsolt Szabó: Yes.]] I'll give you the floor.
u2016-04-26-220	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear House, The 2012 XLI on passenger transport services. The purpose of the proposed amendment to the Act is to amend the general framework for the provision of special road passenger services. Under the current rules, those wishing to carry out passenger services with a slow-moving vehicle, such as a small train or rickshaw, should be notified to the competent transport authority in order to commence their activities. However, in order to be able to introduce more detailed regulations on road safety, environmental aspects, adapted to local conditions, it is absolutely necessary to present the current legislative proposal. In the absence of adequate authorisation, local authorities are currently unable to regulate the environmental properties, technical equipment, appearance, route and stops of service vehicles. The framework sets out the regulatory powers for local authorities and allows for further local regulation. The fulfilment of the conditions laid down can be verified by the municipality itself or by the transport operator entrusted to it. Taking into account local needs and interests, the locality determines the detailed conditions, quality and operational principles of the service. [[20.10]] Dear Parliament, I am convinced that the proposals made by the Members serve the interests of all the municipalities of Hungary, which is why we support it, and the government supports the small train. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties. Dr. Richard Hörcsik: Go, little train!]]
u2016-04-26-221	Ladies and gentlemen, Now we're going to hear the speeches from the lead speaker. I do not see Mr Répássy Róbert in the room, so I ask him if he wishes to speak with the Fidesz. [[No one's reporting.]] There's no such need. Then I give the floor to István Józsa, the lead speaker of the MSZP group.
u2016-04-26-222	Thank you, Mr. President. It is a very great opportunity for me that in the absence of the lead speaker of Fidesz, I may seem to be able to make such a popular front lead speaker's comment on the limbo swing law, because this is his nickname in the field, in the field, who enjoy this service, they say that the limbo carriage is coming, and it doesn't matter how the limbo carriage comes, when and under what circumstances. For the first time, when I saw the address of this law online, that it was an amendment to a serious law on passenger services, I was thinking of something else, and I'm not saying I found it. Here's an interesting presentation. Before I go into the professional depths, I'd like to describe the approach to the whole thing. So when you interpret the local government by taking away schools from the municipalities, taking away medical clinics, practically stripping the municipalities completely, the bodies have little authority, then hop, there comes a law in which the local authorities have the right to establish a regulation for the operation of the Lymbo carriage, the vehicles providing tourism services. I must say, it's touching. It is touching that they can give such a serious mandate to the municipality, but it is difficult not to think that it will be possible to customize the permit to be issued in a way that allows the small train to take a look at the city. Because what precedes these scandalous cases of local governments wanting to help certain, for some reason, the body of representatives, entrepreneurs, such as, say, the distribution of tramps? Of course, the conversation did not take place under the leadership of Mayor Szekszárd Horváth, because there was certainly no conversation where he was asked how many Fidesz testimonials he had brought in, and he would receive permission. Therefore, the body of representatives is certain to have the opportunity to decide who will create a new market, while others, if their vehicle or conditions do not meet its capital strength, will be eliminated according to the new regulation. In view of all this, I believe that the MSZP fraction is of the opinion that it would be a good idea to think about this. Therefore, it is certain that there is a part of such a tourist service - a small railway, a sightseeing small railway service - that should belong to the municipality, for example, what route it may take, where it does not disturb people, where it does not disturb traffic, but to have a licence for a vehicle must have objective criteria, and it is not for the municipality to meet the technical requirements that the Secretary of State has said that air pollution and noise pollution requirements must be met. So let's say it's the route license that's being issued by the municipality, but not the operating license, I beg you. If you see it in a settlement - it can be from an ice cream shop on one street corner and on the other street corner - Józsi thinks that he will present the town's sights on a small train and meet the technical criteria, he will meet the route, do so, and he wants to do it by the city-viewing bus, so he can do it. So this law gives us a discriminatory opportunity in the hands of a local government, which, in our opinion, is not right to have it there. So they're gonna rework it a little bit more, make it a part of what the municipality regulates. There was no talk of a horse-drawn thing here, although it may also include, say, a boy's car, or there are now a little longer carriages, on which eight or ten people can ride on a bench, and a few horses tow around the city centers. So, it's not about that, but in its present form, I'd say no. So it's very good, really touching, but think a little bit about what part of it is objective, and what is the narrow part of it that falls within the competence of the local government. But if there's nothing else to ask for a license to operate, I don't think it's exactly this kind of limbo carriage that should be given such a shady opportunity. Let it operate on a market basis, which can operate on a market basis, provided that adequate safety and environmental conditions are met. Thank you for the opportunity, Mr. President.
u2016-04-26-223	I now give the floor to Congressman Ander Balázs.
u2016-04-26-224	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, The 2012 XLI on passenger transport services. With regard to the short amendment of the Act, it can be stated from the outset that, in principle, the law seeks to grant municipal rights to regulate these special forms of transport, primarily for entertainment purposes, it is only possible to agree. I would also like to risk it, although it is very difficult to read from the lines of the law amendment that it is certainly one of the final products of the Uber scandal and the promised amendments to the law. Another issue is that the local government's regulatory rights are set out in a very wide range of proposals, which can be used and obviously abused. The legal right of the municipality, if adopted in this way, covers essentially everything: the appearance of the vehicle, its technical parameters, its route, its timetable, its stops, the tariffs applied, the same regulatory powers as the taxi regulation. For example, if it is accepted, the capital can ban rickshaws, as many would very much like to do, since it is true that this does not mean for others that a tourist transport to a European capital, instead of referring to Southeast Asia, is a livelihood, but it also stops the normal flow of traffic. Similarly, they can clear out the competitor of the sightseeing Big Bus Tours, because the latter competitor is 30-40 years old and uses bounced vehicles, while Big Bus uses new Chinese-floor buses. Of course, in addition to the principle of greater freedom, rational arguments can be drawn up. We believe that if a road vehicle otherwise complies with professional safety standards, so, for example, an old bus is tested annually and has technical equipment, let it be provided. However, the fact that these special vehicles, such as these disputed rickshaws, can be blocked from the main routes is also a legitimate need, since due to their completely different speed, they are dangerous because they are far more extensive than bicycles, but we are not fully in favour of the general ban on individual types of vehicles or, for example, the fixed pricing of the service. Once again, the law gives the competent authorities a regulatory opportunity, whether they are using it or not. The fact that what the municipality intends to do with it clearly does not follow, therefore, we are saying that it may be possible to fight the democratic fight at the municipal level and to let the regulation go, at least as far as the Jobbik fraction is concerned, because there may be specific cases where the municipality must be given the right to prevent the operator from misuse of the law, for example in the application of the tariff which robs the tourist, or in setting up not only old but unsuitable vehicles for aesthetic reasons. [[20.20]] It is memorable, by the way, that not so long ago my fellow Member, Zoltán Magyar, appeared in the citadel of Lőrinc Mészáros in Felcsút, in the centre of the nation's gas mechanic, Lőrinc Mészáros, who, as a polyhistor, was able to do everything - let's say - to rule. Here they took a special tour of the settlement with a special vehicle called a small railway, but a rubber wheel. They protested against land auctions and protested against the unbelievable wealth and wealth of the Prime Minister's friend's family environment. If we were to be very humorous at this late hour, we could also say that our fellow members of the government want to take away our mood and the opportunity to take part in a tour of such a settlement in Csucsút. But aside from the joke, the will alone to allow local authorities to exercise a greater degree of influence on this issue is, in my view, considered appropriate in the given situation. Therefore, Jobbik, in summing up the arguments pro and versus professionalism as usual, will vote for the adoption of the proposal. Thank you for your attention. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2016-04-26-225	I now give the floor to Congressman Nándor Gúr in a normal time frame.
u2016-04-26-226	Thank you very much, Mr. President. A small town-viewing train, a small train? It's not about today's story. My fellow Members know that. There are a lot of places in Hungary today, tourist sites or world heritage sites, where yesterday, a week ago, a month ago, two years ago, we can go back in time, for decades there have been virtually running such devices, running such vehicles. When you say that the obligation to notify slow vehicles must be done, that is absolutely right. That's how it's worked in the past. Yes, a notification obligation must be made to the transport authorities. I understand that. It's perfectly clear. These authorities shall carry out the task of assessing whether these vehicles are fit for safety purposes or for other aspects that go beyond that. In the context of this draft law, the Secretary of State also called for the consideration of road safety and environmental aspects, to adapt them to local conditions, if I remember correctly his words and the necessity and introduction of regulation by relying on this. I'd just like to put a few little items on the table. I don't think it's a municipal matter to decide what the route of such a device, such a vehicle, should be. Once again, it is more a transport authority's task to decide on this, since the suitability criteria for en route assignments must obviously be taken into account as to how traffic is affected, whether or not it is hindered by participation in traffic, what is in the context of which the authority should take into account - but not by the authority! The technical conditions under which this will be put into service again I think that it is not a municipal decision-making competence, but a task for the transport authority. I can accept what it looks like, because such standards are also formulated, what it needs to comply with, and I can accept it, since a urban and urban integration should not be accompanied in a sense by torsions, that is fine. What size should it be? Again, it must not be a municipal decision, but a transport authority decision. But I could go on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on Please don't be angry if there is a business that, in addition to, say, making good use of tourism opportunities, considers when it would operate these instruments, then let the company have the freedom to decide when it considers it appropriate to operate and operate these instruments and not to impose a mandatory timetable for them. If such distorted situations already arise with regard to the timetable, then there is a lot of doubt about what and how they want to regulate the operation of such a device. I think that, in terms of regulation, the municipality should, in a sense, show restraint in these matters and rather, have these decision-making competences in the direction of the transport authority. They say it's supposed to be public debt-free. I don't know what the connection is, but I'm sure I'll get an explanation between the operation of this type of device and the exemption from public debt. I also think it is good that an undertaking does not have a public debt, but that the imposition of a public debt exemption as a restrictive condition may be dissonant to that effect, and that in a particular situation it may be accompanied by the inability of the business itself, but most importantly of the recipients of the service. But interesting are the contexts that are classified into the so-called prescribed category; when it is said that a certain amount of capital power is required to be available. Let me ask you quite clearly, clearly, simply: do you think that someone who wants to operate such a device, I say, either on a world heritage site or on a tourist site with specific marks, would not consider that they can guarantee the minimum conditions necessary for their operation? If you want to push someone out of the system on a subjective basis, you can simply push them out, because there is no definition of the extent. They can even impose capital forces that are practically unnecessary for the performance of the task, thereby making it impossible for the person who wants to operate this activity to operate it. In English: they form a subjective interface that is practically not linked to this activity, or should not be linked. Or just by requiring the operation and use of information communication devices. I understand or understand this somewhat more from the previous one, but I think that compliance with this directivism is also a restriction at a level that affects at least the issue of consideration. The point is, coming back to the first thought, is that they think of introducing this regulation with reference to road safety, environmental protection and other aspects. And I see something quite different from what I said in the previous sentences. So it is not certain that it is road safety, it is not certain that it is environmental aspects that are in your mind, but rather that this kind of business - put in a quotation mark - is not a traff, as my fellow Member Józsa said - is not a business with a return, but that this kind of business should be in the hands of whom. You want my friends to have this in their hands? How far do you want to go, where? Where does this world sink to? ! In the process system of legislation, regulations are being put in place, where it is evident that you want to define, define, appoint, no matter where we approach the issue. [[Jenő Manninger: Doctor, doctor!]] [[20.30]] I'm telling you, they want to pinpoint, determine, appoint those who can carry on this activity. I think that this should be decided not within the framework of such a regulatory system, but more precisely by the market. [[Happy István: The almighty market.]] Yes, to the market, which level of service can be provided and which services are used by people. And it is not the municipalities, but the transport authorities that have a primary responsibility here. So I can only tell the authors and fellow Members that it would be worth reviewing, let us say, on the basis of these considerations. Because I believe that, after an overview of this, it is likely that a proposal with better quality content could be put between the walls of this House, one that serves the interests of its users in the first place. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[A rare applause in the ranks of the MSZP.]]
u2016-04-26-227	I am asking my fellow Members if anyone would like to comment on the debate. [[There's no candidate.]] I do not see a candidate, so the general debate is closed. I'll ask the author if he'd like to comment. Congressman János Halász has the floor.
u2016-04-26-228	Mr President, Dear House, Thank you for the floor, Mr President. To be honest, I did not expect so much to come to mind in the case of such a proposal by my fellow opposition Members, especially the socialists. But some people do it more funny, and some people take themselves more seriously than Nándor Gúr. Well, here we are, it's okay, it's important, after all, that one doesn't hesitate to decide to stand constructively in this situation and wait for the amendments to be tabled. Even Nándor Gúr couldn't stop me from doing my job, so I'd like to reflect on a few things, which I hope will lead the case forward. First of all, thank you very much for the comment of my better colleague. He mentioned to the municipalities that they would live or abuse it. Obviously, we all hope to take advantage of this opportunity, and, of course, this will be seen, you may know, and local residents, if the municipality abuses such an opportunity, will obviously draw the appropriate conclusions from it in the next election. So that's what I'm hoping you'll live with. My socialist fellow Members have even called this proposal touching, with a proper and usual socialist attitude, of course. But I didn't want to impress anyone, I wanted to help the municipalities with this case. And we're gonna help you with that, in my opinion. They also said that we should consider working on this proposal. You know that when a bill comes before the House, the debate begins, the general debate is also taking place here, for example, part of this work. Because you are here to give your opinion, the rapporteur will listen to you, consider it, and if we work on it, I urge you to submit an amendment. We are very open to the amendments tabled. I look forward to them, and if they are proposals for amendments that truly support this basic objective, which this amendment serves, then we will be very happy to accept them. So let's work on it. We've been working, here's the proposal. If you think that you do not only want to talk, but you also really want to work on this, then, once again, we look forward to the amendments with great respect, and I hope that this law will move forward in other Parliamentary workshops in the next stages of debate, and when we have to vote on it here in this House, you will also support it. Thank you very much, Mr President. [[It's a rare round of applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-04-26-229	Dear Parliament, The amendments may be submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. We now have a general debate on the bill to announce an air transport agreement between the Government of Hungary and the Government of the Kingdom of Bahrain until closure. Government referral T/10312. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, I give the floor to Mr Zsolt Szabó, Minister of State of the Ministry of National Development, author of the item on the agenda.
u2016-04-26-230	Mr President, Dear House, The aim of the bill is to incorporate the air transport agreement with Bahraini parties into the Hungarian legal order. Pursuant to the Act on Procedures for International Contracts, the agreement must be published at the level of law. There are currently no scheduled or charter flights between Hungary and Bahrain. The agreement concluded on 21 January 2016 provides a legal basis for EU standards so that air transport between the two countries can start. The agreement covers, in particular, rules on the operation of flights, cooperation between aviation authorities, aviation safety and, in particular, security of persons and property. It has set up an initiative to contribute to the economic cooperation of the two countries and to the development of trade and cultural relations. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to ask the House that the T/10312, which is before us, is in front of us. Please support bill number 1. Thank you very much.
u2016-04-26-231	Now we're going to hear the speeches from the lead speaker. I give the floor first to Mónika Bartos, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group.
u2016-04-26-232	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Mr. Secretary. Fellow Members! Budapest and Manama, the capital city of Bahrain, are 3628 km from each other. We can fight this distance by car in 45 hours, across several countries and then across part of the Persian Gulf. However, the Arab world plays an important role in the world and the world economy in the coming decades, as Prime Minister Viktor Orbán said when visiting the Gulf countries in 2014. The truth of this statement can be felt by sports lovers, especially motor sports, and on April 1st we were excited about the Grand Prix of Formula 1 Bahrain, which was organized for the 12th time in the kingdom. It is not easy to get on the stage of the rushing circus, but Hungary and Bahrain are there. Being on the Palace of Formula 1 is the success of our countries together. And success is the economic cooperation that now has three decades of history between us. After joining the Schengen information system, Hungary gradually regains its popularity after the change of regime and is an esteemed economic partner. The state and private investors in Bahrain are intensely interested in the investment opportunities of the Central and Eastern European region. In Hungary, special attention is paid to investment opportunities for agricultural and health cooperation. Bahrain is the financial centre of the Gulf region, home to nearly 400 financial institutions. The vast majority of current Hungarian exports are made by mobile phones. Another possibility for Hungarian exports can be mainly in the field of food, cheese, cheese products, dairy products, the export of medical instruments, environmental technologies and information technologies. We can say that the reception of Hungarian companies is favourable, many of which are returning guests at the exhibition for financial and banking IT professionals in Bahrain. The Agreement on Air Transport signed by the Government of Hungary and the Government of the Kingdom of Bahrain on 21 January 2016 could also help to build their connections and better understand Bahrain. Currently there are no scheduled or chartered flights between Hungary and Bahrain. The conclusion of the agreement provides a legal basis for the launch of flights between the two countries and allows the distance of 3628 kilometres to be reduced to a few hours in time. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]] [[20.40]]
u2016-04-26-233	I now give the floor to Imre Horváth, the lead speaker of the MSZP Group.
u2016-04-26-234	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, The Kingdom of Bahrain is a small island country located in a strategically important place off the coast of Saudi Arabia in the middle of the Persian Gulf. The smallest country in the Arab world. Its name is meant by two seas, the freshwater resources of the mainland and the sea surrounding the country. It has an advanced culture, since it was the main station of commercial routes between Mesopotamia, India and Persia. For a long time Portuguese colonists, Persian Shahs, and Arab tribes fought for the island, and ended up in the hands of the British, gaining independence in 1971.In 1932 oil was found for the first time in the region. In addition to black gold, however, the country has taken special care to diversify the economy, so because of investment Bahrain is today the region's financial centre. In recent years, tourism in the five-star category has also increased. Bahrain is one of the most liberated states in the region and has the most liberated housing, regulation and economy. Due to its geographical location, its transparent regulatory system and low operating costs, it has achieved significant results in attracting capital. Priority areas are the financial, telecommunications and real estate sectors. The Heritage Foundation is an American-based research and analysis institute that lists Bahrain as the 16th freest country in the world, which is also ranked 18th on the World Bank's similar list in 2009.Between 2000 and 2010, Bahrain's GDP increased by 70 percent between 2000 and 2010. Following the 2008 economic crisis, the gradual recovery of the economy has become felt. Unlike Europe and North America, Bahrain was avoided by recession in 2009, although growth also slowed down there. Between Hungary and Bahrain, bilateral trade shows a clear Hungarian activity. Our export products were mainly food, electric bulbs and parts. Our imports are negligible. Bahrain focuses essentially on attracting capital, receiving technologies, training its own professionals, job creation in sectors with higher skills, contributing to diversification and infrastructure development. Companies may have opportunities primarily for environmental protection, water management, renewable energies and education. To facilitate bilateral relations, the 2014 XLIX. by law, the Agreement between the Government of Hungary and the Government of the Kingdom of Bahrain on the prevention of double taxation and avoidance of taxation in the field of income taxes. In addition, 74/2016 was recently published. Government Decree No. 1 on the publication of the Agreement on Economic and Technical Cooperation between the Government of Hungary and the Government of the Kingdom of Bahrain. In the latter framework, the signatories consider that there are favourable conditions for long-term cooperation, including in the following areas: economy, financial services, expert services, health, construction, agriculture, technical development projects, transport, telecommunications and IT services, hydrocarbon recovery and energy industry. At the same time as signing the Agreement on Economic and Technical Cooperation, the Parties shall establish a Joint Committee with the task of discussing the development of bilateral economic relations, identifying new opportunities for further development of future economic cooperation, and developing proposals to improve the conditions for economic cooperation between businesses in both countries. We consider that the bill on the publication of the Air Transport Agreement between the Government of Hungary and the Government of the Kingdom of Bahrain in front of us further deepens the possibility of cooperation between the two countries, and therefore the Hungarian Socialist Party's parliamentary group supports its adoption. Thank you.
u2016-04-26-235	I now give the floor to Csaba Gyure, the lead speaker of the Jobbik Group.
u2016-04-26-236	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, We have a draft law, a proposal that I think will be supported by all the political groups in Parliament. Air transport, aviation safety and the international treaty before us, from which Parliament is required to legislate and publish it, are a very important issue. This is indeed a very important step in improving cooperation between the two countries for the future. Indeed, as said in the previous speech, in the previous speech, we are talking about a rather remote country, since Bahrain is a small island in the Persian Gulf, more than 3,000 kilometres from Hungary. It is not a huge country, since it does not have a surface area of 700 square kilometres, but its population is much larger than usual, since it has more than ten times the size of the island, since it has a population of 1 million 300 thousand inhabitants, which is divided into 700 square kilometres. It obviously has an advanced economy, because we know that the Middle East countries are rich in oil, and Bahrain was the first country to find oil in the Middle East region in 1931. Previously, the country was primarily fishing for pearls, and finding oil has brought development, economic development that they have been able to live with, and indeed have become a financial centre, and it is attractive to see tourists arriving in island conditions, but in a real desert climate. So it can really be an attractive destination for everyone to travel there, get to know this country, get to know the culture that the Arabs there, the traditional Arab life, convey to everyone, but it is also very important that they get the security that they can get in such a country. We have also seen that we have also heard the reference that it is a participant of Formula 1, as well as Hungary, and there are many other links and trade links linking countries. We hope that this international treaty, which will come to pass here and become law enforcement, will benefit the relations between the two countries in the future. I would like to highlight one more thing from the text contained in the international treaty, since all the provisions required by the Chicago Convention adopted in 1944 are contained in this international treaty. I would like to draw attention to one thing in which we should perhaps follow, we should have followed the example of Bahrain, who will pay attention to it in Article 3, and if we get to the designation and authorisation section, then we can see who the airlines are who can be designated by the two states for each other, who can transport passengers and transport goods. Here it is very important what Hungary concludes, as it is contracted from the EU in Hungary with a company who will deliver, and then an airline will be designated by the Hungarian State, who will be able to operate here in this respect. While the Kingdom of Bahrain stands firm for local and national interests, it clearly states that an airline should be registered not only in the territory of the Kingdom but also on the Hungarian side, but also in the territory of the Kingdom of Bahrain. [[20.50]] It also describes and stipulates that both the majority ownership of the airline and its effective management must be in the Kingdom of Bahrain, nationals of the Kingdom of Bahrain or the Kingdom of Bahrain must exercise ownership rights together. So this, I think, is very important for all countries to prefer national companies in the first place. The Kingdom of Bahrain will do so. Unfortunately, in Hungary, we can no longer talk about a national airline that could be designated here, and we can determine that only he can operate in this respect. I think that this is a serious mistake for the previous governments, that they have allowed the only Hungarian national airline to disappear, and that we will give this opportunity again to some foreign multinational company, which we will create with this international treaty for the two countries. But we hope that, since this is also an opportunity to replace these companies, these airlines, which fly in relation to the two countries, will eventually get to the point that it will be a real Hungarian national airline that transports passengers between Bahrain and Hungary. Thank you so much for listening. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2016-04-26-237	I ask my fellow Members if anyone else would like to comment. [[No signal.]] There's no candidate. I will ask if Mr Zsolt Szabó wishes to comment. It says yes. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2016-04-26-238	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, In fact, a question arose from my fellow Member Csaba Gyüre, but he himself answered the question of the EU's rules on airlines. Thank you very much for the positive statements, and I would also like to ask you to support the amendment before us in the final vote and the agreement that will be announced before us. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2016-04-26-239	Dear Parliament, The amendments may be submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. The 2007 LX on the Implementation Framework of the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change and its Kyoto Protocol. Act CCXVII of 2012 on participation in the Community greenhouse gas trading scheme and the implementation of the effort-sharing decision. General discussion of the bill amending the law until closure. Government referral T/10314. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. I would like to give the floor to Mr Zsolt Szabó, State Secretary, for the first time.
u2016-04-26-240	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear House, The bill before you is the 2007 LX on the framework for implementing the UN Framework Convention on Climate Change and its Kyoto Protocol. Act CCXVII of 2012 on participation in the Community greenhouse gas trading scheme and the implementation of the effort-sharing decision. contains an amendment to the Act. These two important climate protection objectives need to be amended in order to adapt to international climate policy processes and to simplify domestic case law. At the Paris Climate Conference held between 30 November and 12 December 2015, the participating States adopted the so-called Paris Agreement and signed the text of the global international agreement on climate policy in New York on 22 April 2016. On behalf of Hungary, at the request of the Government, President János Áder signed this document. Among other things, the Paris Agreement states that in 2018, a special report by the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change on the effects of a global warming of 1.5 degrees Celsius will be published. Accordingly, for the first time in 2018, it will be assessed whether the signatories will be able to keep their commitments in Paris, whether they may be increased in order to achieve the long-term emission reduction targets. The aim of the bill is, among other things, to give the Minister for Public Finance a more significant role in the processes of the Green Climate Fund coordinating international climate finance. The proposal also includes the necessary legislation on the recognition of qualifications issued by other EU Member States for activities related to fluorinated greenhouse gases. The amendment lays down the rules for the recognition procedure to clearly identify natural persons or undertakings. The proposal also includes a proposal to amend the existing legislation in order to reduce the bureaucratic burden. In this context, to mention just one example, the procedure for the review of the emissions permit will be simplified, and changes to the permit will be effective and quickly transferred. The legislative proposal includes definitions and rules for the application of the law and interpretation of the law in the part of the legislation relating to the Community greenhouse gas trading system. In order to implement the decision of the European Parliament and of the Council establishing a market stability reserve, it is necessary to amend the rules. The market stability reserve is an important one-off intervention instrument for the reform of the Union's emissions trading system, which will have a price stabilising and price-raising effect on the price of allowances. This is also beneficial for Hungary, as higher revenues will be generated from the allowances sold by 2020. The reserve, which the Commission will monitor with the Member States, will put quotas on the market in the event of economic growth and, in the event of a recession, will put a certain quantity of units on the market. Through the price-enhancing effect, Hungary can expect higher quota revenues during the new climate and energy framework between 2020 and 2030, including the two new EU financial funds, modernisation and innovation. Due to the maximisation of funds available through these funds, the market price for European allowances is not indifferent, which, according to economic analyses, will clearly increase with the introduction of the market stability reserve. I ask the Honourable Parliament that the T/10314. I want you to discuss the bill and support the government's intentions. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2016-04-26-241	Now we're going to hear the speeches from the lead speaker. I give the floor to Jenő Manninger, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group.
u2016-04-26-242	Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, The bill before this House amends two important climate protection laws, as Mr State Secretary said. We can say that it is very important to be able to move forward on climate change, climate protection and climate change. We can say that significant progress has been made, right, at the Paris climate conference, and although we know that experts and generally the political public share the optimism and how much they believe in their implementation, we can still say that progress has been made, and, of course, it is very important for Hungary to implement them, comply with them, and adapt to them in its own legislation. Thus, the revision rules of the national climate change strategy will be amended by the bill, including a proposal for a timetable for the strategy, in order to comply with international commitments, thus specifically with the Paris agreement. The States participating in the Paris Climate Conference in November 2015 adopted the text of the Global International Climate Policy Treaty on the Paris Agreement, which was signed on Earth Day, last Friday, 22 April in New York. On behalf of Hungary, the document was signed by President János Áder. [[21.00]] I would like to mention that the President of the Republic made three important proposals in New York at the time of his signature. According to his first proposal, in order to achieve the objectives set, the ten countries that emit most greenhouse gases should start a consultation as soon as possible on how to reduce their emissions to a greater and faster rate than previously planned. His second proposal was to conclude the negotiations on aviation emissions reduction without delay, and to start these negotiations as soon as possible in the case of maritime shipping, otherwise three times the current emissions will be expected in 20-30 years. In his third proposal, he pointed out that one of mankind's greatest challenges is how to store its excess energy. It is important for the G20 to accelerate research with the support of the OECD in order to achieve an efficient, safe, cheap and sustainable solution to energy storage as soon as possible. Dear Parliament, In this bill there is a question of recognition of qualifications, supervision fees, deregulation. Mr Secretary of State has already said that I do not wish to describe them in detail, and I ask for your support. As can be said, the bill also provides for tasks concerning international climate finance. In the case of the decision-making body of the international organisation coordinating international climate finance, the Green Climate Fund, the Minister for Public Finance should be informed of the nomination in the event of the appointment of an accredited national representative, as well as of the Minister for Public Finance's involvement in climate finance decisions. There is also the Montreal Protocol and deregulation. The concept of a market stability reserve is included in the domestic legislation in accordance with the relevant EU standards and the rules on the sale of greenhouse gas units are also slightly modified. Ladies and gentlemen, I ask you to support the bill before this House, which gives the Minister for Public Finance a greater role in the processes of the Green Climate Fund coordinating international climate finance, settles the rules necessary for activities relating to fluorinated greenhouse gases concerning the recognition of qualifications issued by other Member States of the EU, settles the tasks of harmonisation in the EU, simplifies administrative procedures, reduces bureaucratic burdens and serves deregulation purposes. Thank you for your attention.
u2016-04-26-243	I am asking if anyone would like to comment, since the other keynote speakers are not present in Parliament's Chamber. [[For signal:]] Mr. István Józsa asked for a normal word, then you have the floor, Congressman.
u2016-04-26-244	Thank you, Mr. President. This is an absolutely eligible bill, and it is all the more welcome that the government has brought it in so quickly, because in the last six years, as it is almost necessary to get used to the fact that there are six years past behind Parliament and the Fidesz government, they have not tried so much, they have not explicitly supported renewable energies, but this would be very, very much necessary in this country, because we all know that renewables are the future in such a way and so in that sense. So it's about time this bill got here. I was a little embarrassed that Congressman Manninger was so hasty, so I couldn't remember everything he gave me as useful information, but I think the record will contain it accurately. Thus, on the basis of my own annotation, I express my joy that President János Áder personally participated in New York on the occasion of Earth Day on 22 April in the solemn signing of the Paris agreement that I had the pleasure of participating in within the framework of a delegation from Parliament. I would like to share a detail of this experience with the people present - not too many. The Secretary-General of the OECD held a very valuable standard at Parliament's meeting organised by the Interparlamental Union as part of the climate conference. It is very simple to say that there will be a substantial reduction in CO2 emissions if climate trade will be charged with a charge on environmental charges that can be collected as taxes. So it is clear that what Mr Manninger said about the ideas of the G20 has already been formulated in the slightly wider OECD, which covers 32 countries. If this goes on, and the biggest emitters are well-recognized by environmental interests... because we don't want to think that China is suddenly empathetic to environmentalists. It is simply that air pollution in China's large cities is already causing mass damage to health, so the air of many Chinese cities is becoming unbearable, so they take emissions seriously because of this pressure. Just as Europe had a hard time recognising it in the early '60s, in the mid '60s, that serious sacrifices had to be made, serious efforts had to be made to protect the environment, if it did not want the population of developed countries to face serious health damage. I could therefore say, in the context of this comment, that the amendment of the law is justified by the tasks arising from the Paris Agreement, and that, as Mr Secretary of State said, the rules necessary for activities relating to fluorinated greenhouse gases concerning the recognition of qualifications issued by other Member States of the European Union can thus be included in the legislation. The rest of it, I think, is technical. Basically, the Paris agreement is incorporated into the law, so the MSZP parliamentary group is very much in favour of the proposal. Thank you very much.
u2016-04-26-245	I now give the floor to Gábor István Bellozó.
u2016-04-26-246	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, The MSZP fraction not only supports this proposal to a large extent, but I would also like to express our joy at the fact that the Convention itself has been concluded, because it is a very important agreement. It contains commitments that will be ratified in all the Member States concerned and then the Convention will enter into force which will be able to substantially reduce greenhouse gas emissions, which, in my view, is extremely important, I can say that a breakthrough change can be made between the international efforts made so far to achieve this objective and the publication of this convention itself. I am particularly pleased that the Hungarian Parliament is among the first to accept this agreement. But while we are talking about this goal, allow me to add a few additional ideas on how important it is to reduce greenhouse gases, what opportunities are there for a country if it takes these objectives seriously. First of all, this convention is good not only because of what my fellow Member Manninger has said, but also because Hungary is actually in a more favourable position in the quota trade as a result of this convention, but that, using these quotas, improvements can be made in Hungary which, if we make a little better use of than we have done before, we can serve significantly more purpose than reducing these greenhouse gases. What is needed is not simply to support renewable energy investments or to support energy-reducing investments, but to do them a little bit smarter than we are doing now. [[21.10]] Recently - I do not want to be a very populist, I mention it because it has been news recently - Members of Parliament and several wealthy people have financed their washing machines and solar investments from these quota funds, which I think is the biggest problem, so that we do not use the money well, and this is not primarily a matter of whether they are involved in this Parliamentary Member or not, because if a Member of Parliament considers these objectives important and is entrepreneurial and invests in this, it can be a positive thing, but in my opinion, if we already have the resources to support renewable energy investments, we should not be able to support those who can otherwise make these investments from their own savings. There are many settlements in Hungary where there are many poor people, who typically make a great deal of effort - even in addition to the reduction in the overhead costs - to finance energy costs, to pay the yellow cheques. And if we were to use these funds to basically give money to Community energy investments to those communities that are able to make their own local renewable energy investments, they would not only be able to generate their own energy, but if they were to make properly oversized power plants and small power plants, they would also be able to obtain additional resources in the system, which would enable them to develop a local economy, not only to promote renewable energy targets, and not only to reduce fossil energy, but also to provide disadvantaged regions with a source of income from which they could start developing their own economy, and otherwise these regions would typically not have much access to very different start-up revenues than to such an opportunity to produce energy, which, among other things, by entering into force of this convention, sources and increasing resources. I would like to take advantage of this debate, therefore, that the current decision-makers - which is the Fidesz government right now, and the State Secretary dealing with development policy earlier are sitting here among us - would like to think about these investments, that the disadvantaged areas, which are really having a hard time coming from one to the other, that if we could create the right legislative background, that if this energy could be taken over, the energy produced could be fed into the system, if the many promises that the take-over system was finally... that what was before had been abolished, and that year after year promises that it will be brought in again, and that this opportunity will be assured again, that we should now be able to introduce them, so that we can move forward in this too! Because in this case, it will not only be about climate change, but also about helping small settlements in a hopeless situation in Hungary, and helping families who are now thinking about what innovative solutions we should put in, say, card machines providing electricity, on which we need to upload the money in advance, so that families with poor finances can't pay their energy bill and have a lot of backlogs, so they don't get these backlogs, so they come up with pre-charged cards. In my view, settlements in these areas of basically disadvantaged areas would not need any such additional action at all if they could produce their own energy, and this lacked many regulatory conditions, which, by the way, had already existed or largely had, and which were withdrawn at the time of your governance, and I cannot stress the need to link these expectations to the use of these opportunities. The other option is, of course, not only how we generate energy, but also how much energy we save with different energy efficiency investments, and here not only money can be given for washing machine replacements, but, of course, it would also be worth spending on housing insulation. Because if we do the insulation of apartments in the right way, it is simply possible with a local heat pump to avoid, for example, the cost of heating at all, even for a private apartment, and to use these quota funds and other EU funds in greater numbers. Finally, let me tell you an anecdote, just how different we think about this issue, let us say, compared to the Scandinavian countries. As a Member of the European Parliament, I may have visited the Regional Development Committee in Helsinki in 2006, where we looked at what EU money is spent on, what good and bad practices are. At Helsinki, the local development committee said that their primary objective was to prepare for climate change. I'll tell you honestly, when they told me that this is what most money is spent on, and that is their most important objective, then many of my Western European politicians began to smile: ha ha, afraid that you would get flooded and that you would really take this so seriously? And they then said - there was a scientific debate about the challenge of climate change at that time, now, ten years later much less, but at that time there was still a debate about it - that they saw it as a serious challenge on the one hand, but on the other hand, and they saw it as a huge opportunity, because if climate change is becoming more and more a public policy, then it is obvious that it will require standards; they see that the EU is going in this direction more and more and more, and sooner and more the German economy is going to go in that direction, and now all kinds of green labelling solutions will have to be put in place, and if such green labelling solutions are to be introduced, they will want to develop all the standards for this climate preparation, that when the region of Helsinki, as they have recognised the potential of mobile communication, and they have made a mobile phone factory out of their big rubber factory, and now they will use all the energy - I say in 2006 - that they will have to make a lot of the money they want to make when the money from this climate change, and they will make sure that the money from all the money from the schemes they want to make, because of the money from the schemes, for example, and the schemes are going to make, and they are going to make the money from all of the schemes that they are going to make, and they are going to make, and they are going to make the right. And, fellow Members, they did it, and they made a lot of money with it, while the Hungarian Academy of Sciences spent billions that same year to prove that there is no climate change, and we don't have to deal with it, because it's just one of those Western market defence humbugs. I told you this anecdote because it is worth not only looking at these issues as sufferers, simply ratifying, declaring such a convention, but always observing the potential of such changes for a country that has always been proud of its innovation, its grey stock. I believe that Hungary has a lot to learn from our Scandinavian relatives on these issues, and I urge the government to create the necessary conditions and opportunities so that we can benefit from it as much as possible. Thank you so much for listening.
u2016-04-26-247	I now give the floor to Member István Józsa.
u2016-04-26-248	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I would also like to criticise the behaviour of the government. In the area of quota trading, they missed a tens of billions of opportunities immediately after their government formation. There was a quota package prepared before the quota trade market broke down and I say this to the Secretary of State, who was talking about some corruption mountains in the EU: there could not have been any corruption in the quota trade, because they were Japanese buyers - they would have bought it the month they formed their government - they were not there yet - so the market fell in the next two months and they didn't give anything for it. So you have to be reasonable in this area, so what can ensure the exchange rate for quota trading must be there in those steps. [[21.20]] I would also like to draw attention to heat mining. I cannot stress enough that Hungary's natural geological potential for thermal mining is a relatively thin crust. There are already so-called fourth generation hydroelectric power plants in the world. This could provide district heating for the entire capital, and we could also produce half a pack of electricity. Similarly, we have a great opportunity to build solar power plants especially in the territory of South Hungary. They can operate economically, whether small, under half-megawatts or in larger sizes, and it is worth taking advantage of EU subsidies, especially in the case of farms without electricity lines, so the use of solar power plants can also be extended to the farm electricity programme. Thank you very much.
u2016-04-26-249	I'm asking you if there's still an intention to speak. I don't see that. I'll ask the Secretary of State if he'd like to comment. [[For signal:]] You have the floor, Secretary of State Zsolt Szabó.
u2016-04-26-250	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Thank you very much for your comments. With a slightly different mindset from the legislation, and if you will allow me, fellow Members, I will try to sum it up. There's a home hot program. We were able to help 80,000 families, and I'm just saying that we didn't decide who was entitled, who wasn't, who needed it, who wasn't, but who submitted the application, we gave money to everyone. The fact that a fellow Member put in a tender instead of his 80-some-year-old mother-in-law, well, I don't know, I was just thinking if my 80-some-some-year-old relatives asked me to submit an application because he doesn't have access and he can't solve it, or he would ask my wife if I could. It's purely a matter of respect. By the way, our fellow Member has repaid this money. Obviously, you can say why you don't go to your kin and ask him for money. But we all know the elderly people who have such posture that they want to give their children and grandchildren, and I think that somehow in society in this sense is a positive thought. Apartment insulation, NFM website, now there are family houses up there, full of renewables, you can apply anywhere in any form. We just finished this insulation program for condos, and we're going on this road, they're all quota money. Finn's an example. If I may, I agree with Mr Józsa's line of thought, so that we do not think that the leading economic powers are so pleased that they are making great progress in climate policy. I'm not sure it's that positive. Now you're giving the Finnish example, I don't know if you know that the government is about to make a decision in Finland that payments may have to be reduced. Economic performance has dropped, we need to look around. I agree with the idea of the European Union when it says that each country must build its own energy portfolio. Why don't we set an example here for Iceland? In Iceland, the farmer goes out, puts a six-foot tube into the ground, and it comes with geothermal energy. That's how they go. They prefer them, they build renewables on them. For Hungary, 13 percent of the European Union set renewable energy in the 2020 target. Hungary has committed 14.65 per cent; all applications that now appear in the 5th priority of the CFP include renewable energy. All our money from quotas has renewable energy, and we want to support it in any case in the future. Quoting question, stock exchange question - I came later, I don't know this topic for 2010, but let me tell you one thing: if someone tells me where the exchange rate will be in a month's time, we're talking about currency and currency exchange rates, I'll raise my hat before that. I've been watching the exchange rate movements for 20 or 20 years, and no one's ever been able to describe a mathematical trend that can tell that for sure. Everything related to the economy, the stock market, the market and thus to economic interests cannot be monitored in this respect, and obviously the same applies to the quota itself. We can try to achieve as much results as possible, we hope that this will also succeed in the future, and we can use these revenues to the benefit of the economy, the Hungarian economy and the renewable economy. Thank you very much to my fellow Members for their supporting contributions, and it is clear from this that the objective, which is set out in this law, is a positive and very important goal for all of us. I urge you to support the proposal in the final vote in the same way. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-04-26-251	Ladies and gentlemen, The amendments may be submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. A joint general discussion of the report on the conditions for the adoption of a reasoned opinion by the Committee of European Affairs on the existence of a draft directive of the European Parliament and of the Council amending Directive 96/71/EC of 16 December 1996 on the posting of workers in the framework of the provision of services and the proposal for a decision adopting it, submitted by the Committee of European Affairs, is now now taking place. The report was published in B/10290. Number H/10291, and the proposal for a decision H/10291. received by the representatives. I declare that the proposals will be discussed as an EU item on the agenda by the Parliament. First, I give the floor to Mr Richárd Hörcsik, Chairman of the Committee on European Affairs, rapporteur for the report and the proposal for a decision.
u2016-04-26-252	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Dear fellow Members, For the third time in the plenary session of the Parliament, such an examination of subsidiarity will be carried out, which is a special parliamentary procedure designed to enable national parliaments to express their views on the draft EU legislation and to prevent them from exceeding the delegated powers of the EU institutions. I would also like to remind my fellow Members that for the first time in October 2013 we conducted this type of inquiry here in the House from the draft Council regulation on the European Public Prosecutor's Office, and at that time not only the Hungarian Parliament, but a total of 14 chambers of the European Union National Parliament have found that the principle of subsidiarity is infringed. This also meant, ladies and gentlemen, that a total of 18 votes represented by the Chambers had activated the so-called yellow flat procedure, as a result of which the European Commission had to justify amending its proposal (a), (b) withdrawing it or (c) maintaining it. Although the European Commission has complied with the obligation to state reasons, it has also made the incomprehensible decision to maintain its original proposal without change. With this, I think you have completely ignored the concerns expressed in national Parliaments. Ladies and gentlemen, The issue on the agenda deserves so much attention because last year, according to my information, only 8 reasoned opinions have been delivered on some 40 legislative proposals tabled by the European Commission. So I see that national Parliaments have become more restrained in examining the principle of subsidiarity. Of these 8 reasoned opinions, five parliamentary chambers, including our Parliament, adopted a reasoned opinion on the amendment of the draft regulation on the allocation of refugees according to compulsory quotas, establishing the breach of subsidiarity. [[21.30]] Ladies and gentlemen, The two examples mentioned above clearly indicate that a reasoned opinion should only be adopted on matters of paramount importance. We see that in the first case, the fundamental functioning of the State Organisation, while in the proposal on compulsory quotas, the possible social and political consequences of the proposal justified the conduct of parliamentary scrutiny. Today's subsidiarity study concerns a draft directive on the status of so-called posted workers. This proposal is also of considerable importance to the previous ones, and I would add that due to the consequences of the domestic labour market, it is mainly due to domestic companies providing services but abroad. It is estimated that some 70,000 Hungarian workers who work in the framework of a posting, i.e. on a temporary basis as employees of one undertaking, may be affected by this proposal in another EU Member State. I note that this form of employment is primarily characteristic of the construction and manufacturing industry, and the main target countries of Hungarian businesses are Germany and Austria. Ladies and gentlemen, The main objective of this draft directive is to ensure that the same work carried out in the same place for posted workers is rewarded in the same way. To this end, the remuneration rules resulting from legislation or collective agreement on local workers would therefore be extended to posted workers. This would mean, ladies and gentlemen, that, under the current Directive 96/71/EC, the term "average wage" or "remuneration" would be replaced by the term "remuneration" for posted workers. Here's the dog buried. A regulation that has been in force for almost 20 years now is now to be broken by the European Commission with a single pen stroke, in the spirit of alleged equal treatment. But I ask you, ladies and gentlemen, how can the local worker and the posted worker be mentioned on the same page? I think that the characteristics of the two legal institutions, such as the date and condition of application, and then the nature of the work are fundamentally different. The company that employs the posted worker is charged, for example, with travel and then with the provision of accommodation costs. Therefore, I think it is very false to require a certain type of EU harmonisation in the case of labour costs, since only one element of the posting status is concerned. In addition, at EU level, only 0.6-0.7 percent of employees work in the context of a so-called posted relationship. So the European Commission wants to redistribute a very narrow market segment in essence in the context of beautiful principles of law. And I note that it is not for the benefit of the Member States that joined later. Ladies and gentlemen, Let me briefly summarise the follow-up to the so-called subsidiarity study carried out in the Committee on European Affairs and the experience of this in the light of the late hour. Under the Lisbon Treaty, the examination may take place within eight weeks of the issue of the relevant EU proposal, which in this case expires on 10 May, i.e. until then the Parliament should form a reasoned opinion. Almost four weeks ago, on 30 March, the Committee on European Affairs put the draft directive on the agenda, and the representative of the Ministry of National Economy drew the attention of the members of our committee, inter alia, to the fact that the proposal would constitute a disproportionate intervention in the current market-based conditions of competition. Indeed, I agree with the fact that this provision would be detrimental not only to companies employing posted workers in Hungary but also in other Central European Member States, because these companies would simply not be able to obtain orders in the older Member States. So I could also say that they want us out of the Western European market slowly, step by step. For us, the freedom to provide services so far would be impaired or even abolished. Ladies and gentlemen, In the case of the subsidiarity assessment, the starting point was, on the basis of the above, (1) the existing Directive, (2) the comparison and the joint assessment of the draft directive in question. This method of analysis is therefore based on a thorough reading, interpretation and analysis of the legislative proposal. It is also important to point out that the current directive basically sets minimum conditions and contains flexible rules on the basis of which the posted worker can benefit from a derogation, i.e. a higher income than the minimum wage. As is apparent from the report presented by the Commission, the investigation also required an examination of the contractual article on which the legislative proposal was adopted and a review of the relevant case law of the Court of Justice of the European Union was necessary, in particular in the context of the establishment of the minimum wage. Ladies and gentlemen, The legal cases examined showed that a number of interpretation questions were also raised in connection with the concept of the even transparent and unambiguous, Think of the more uncertain concept than the minimum wage, how much of the, the remuneration, will be raised in the future. Ladies and gentlemen, The Committee on European Affairs also put the draft directive on the agenda at its meeting on 12 April and, at its meeting on 18 April, unanimously submitted a proposal for a decision stating that the draft directive on posted workers infringes the principle of subsidiarity. The Committee on European Affairs considers the draft directive to be contrary to the principle of subsidiarity for the following reasons. Five of these points have been formulated. Let me explain these very briefly. 1. The reasons for the draft directive, contrary to Article 5 of the Second Protocol to the Lisbon Treaty, do not refer at all to consistency with the principle of subsidiarity. 2. The draft directive will result in a degree of interference in the freedom to provide services, artificially distorting conditions of competition to an extent that cannot be justified by the payment of wage costs. 3. The draft directive does not add value by introducing the concept of remuneration proposed instead of the minimum wage level provided by the current directive, since the concept of remuneration is less clear and uncertain. Thus, the introduction of a concept which is not clear to all stakeholders is, in my view, contrary to the principles of legal certainty and subsidiarity. 4. The draft directive was not preceded by a broad consultation contrary to Article 2 of the Second Protocol. Indeed, the Commission has not taken into account the regional and local aspects of the planned measure. 5. In the context of the social policy aspects of the draft directive, we should stress that the introduction of the concept of remuneration is due to differences in economic development between Member States and not to artificial compensation for differences in levels of wage which limit competition, which I feel is indeed contrary to the complementary powers that the Union has in the area of social policy. [[21.40]] Ladies and gentlemen, As I referred to at the beginning of my speech, the subsidiarity assessment can have a real political weight if several national parliaments adopt similarly reasoned opinions on the same legislative proposal. In this case, I can inform my fellow Members that the first reasoned opinion was adopted in the upper House of the Czech Parliament on 31 March and that on 13 April the Polish seym and the Romanian House of Representatives made a similar decision. According to my information, it is expected this week that the Czech Senate and the Polish Senate will adopt a similarly reasoned opinion and that the Estonian and Lithuanian parliaments will have a similar position. We also have information that a number of other parliamentary chambers are also examining the application of the subsidiarity principle. Ladies and gentlemen, Finally, I would like to thank you for the close cooperation of both the Ministry of National Economy and the competent State Secretary of the Prime Minister's Office with the Committee on European Affairs during the procedure, so I believe that our committee, equipped with the necessary information, has come to the conclusion that the draft directive violates the principle of subsidiarity on the basis of clear and well-founded grounds. Finally, I would like to thank the committee's staff, senior advisors and advisors for their work on this. That is why I ask my fellow Members to support H/10291. A proposal for a decision was adopted as soon as possible. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-04-26-253	I ask Nándor Csepreghy, State Secretary, if he wishes to present the government's position. [[For signal:]] It says yes. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2016-04-26-254	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Given the progress of time and the patience of its representatives, allow me to add only a few words to what the Member said, since he essentially expressed the same position as the government. The European Union is a specific institution in that a number of measures, which, at first reading, may look good for workers in a Member State, if we scratch the surface of these measures better, come together with a number of measures which, however, have many pitfalls. This is one of the Commission's proposals before you, because if we look further beyond this proposal, this is nothing more than an open protectionist and market protection measure from the richer Western European Member States of the European Union vis-à-vis poorer Eastern European Member States. After all, he would not agree that workers would receive equal wages for the same work at the same place, but if we look at the internal market of the European Union and the competitive advantage or disadvantage of its various players, then one of the competitive advantages of the Eastern Central European region comes from the fact that its employees are more competitive in terms of wages than Western European Member States. If the European Commission could carry this initiative through, the workplace of 200,000 Hungarian posted workers would be at risk, in our view. We believe that, in the longer term, this threatens not only the economic competitiveness of the Central and Eastern European region, but also the competitiveness of the European Community, whether we are thinking about the United States or the emerging states in the Far East. The internal market, including the market for the provision of services, was one of its most important achievements and was essentially a decisive argument for joining the European Union in 2004, so we cannot support the Commission's proposal for a revision of the Posting of Workers Directive in this respect, as we believe that this constitutes a threat to any achievement which was a significant reason before accession in 2004. Although the whole issue concerns about 0.7 per cent of workers in the European Union, we believe that the issue is of principle, because for the Western European Member States, who consider that workers in the Eastern European Member States, who are one of the fundamental rights of the European Union, because of the free movement of labour in the Western European countries, pose a threat to labour markets as part of social dumping. It is clear that the economic policy interests and motivations of the Member States are behind this consideration, but then accept that the Eastern Central European Member States have the same but opposite interests. This proposal is essentially not in the interests of any other economic community, such as the Benelux States, the German or the French economy, who, for example, wants to give local businesses stronger positions in agriculture, construction or the service sector, which, once again, as national parliaments, is a legitimate endeavour, but, as far as the European Union as a whole is concerned, would create a significant competitive disadvantage for the Member States of the Eastern Central European region. Dear Parliament, Since there is essentially a political issue on the table, it is not certain that we will be able to prevent it from being adopted within the Council, so we believe that it is of the utmost importance that the Member States' parliaments take advantage of their rights under the Treaty and signal their concerns to the European Commission in the so-called reasoned opinion. At least one third of the votes given to national parliaments, i.e. 19 out of 56 pieces, could lead to the launch of the so-called yellow flat procedure, which would mean that the European Commission should reconsider this proposal. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-04-26-255	Ladies and gentlemen, Now we're going to hear the speeches from the lead speaker. In this context, I give the floor first to Zoltán Tessely, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group.
u2016-04-26-256	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen of the State Secretary. Dear House, The report and the proposal for a decision before us on the draft directive on the posting of workers in the framework of the provision of services, published on 8 March 2016, I would like to draw up the following comments as the lead speaker of Fidesz, grouped in three respects. I would first like to look at the withdrawal aspect. The founding treaties of the European Union define exactly how far the European Union and the Member States have competence in terms of employment policy and social policy. Pursuant to Article 5 (2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, coordination of the employment policies of the Member States within the European Union is the only option. Pursuant to Article 4 (2) (b) of the same Treaty, certain aspects of social policies fall within the shared competence of the European Union and the Member States. Overall, it is clear that another attempt to stealthy dereliction can be felt as Member States' policies for regulating wages do not fall within the EU's competence, but the draft directive indirectly imposes a wage obligation on Member States, thereby detracting from Member States' powers if the proposal is adopted. This is, of course, unacceptable to us. The second aspect I have examined is the question of proportionality. The founding Treaties of the European Union state the principle of proportionality in that the action of the Union cannot go beyond what is necessary to achieve the objectives of the Treaties, either in substance or in form. [[21.50]] The only way to coordinate the employment policies of the Member States within the European Union is by virtue of paragraph 1 of this Article. Pursuant to Article 4 (2) (b) of the same Treaty, certain aspects of social policies fall within the shared competence of the European Union and the Member States. Overall, it is clear that another attempt to stealthy dereliction can be felt as Member States' policies for regulating wages do not fall within the EU's competence, but the draft directive indirectly imposes a wage obligation on Member States, thereby detracting from Member States' powers if the proposal is adopted. This is, of course, unacceptable to us. The second aspect I have examined is the question of proportionality. The founding Treaties of the European Union state the principle of proportionality in that the action of the Union cannot go beyond what is necessary to achieve the objectives of the Treaties, either in substance or in form. 21.50 In this respect, it is important to stress that the draft directive does not intend to address a pan-European problem, and the impact assessment also shows that posted workers account for only 0.7 percent of the EU labour market. The draft directive aims to address wage tensions caused by posting in some sectors of a Member State with a maximum of four to five high levels of pay, especially in the construction sector, and would therefore restrict one of the fundamental freedoms laid down in the basic contract, namely freedom to provide services, in order to protect some Member States and one or two sectors. This restriction is disproportionate in our view, undermines the competitiveness of economic operators and the Union as a whole, and constitutes artificial intervention in market conditions under economic rules. The third aspect that I want to examine is to ignore the joint initiative in Central Europe. As part of the so-called labour mobility package, the draft directive was already one of the possible priorities of the European Commission's 2015 Work Programme, and last year some older EU Member States called for the rapid presentation and adoption of the draft directive. However, in August 2015, nine Member States, Bulgaria, the Czech Republic, Estonia, Hungary, Lithuania, Latvia, Poland, Slovakia and Romania argued in a joint letter that the revision of the existing directive on posted workers should be postponed, stressing that the principle of equal pay for the same work in the same place would be incompatible with the single market, since differences in wage levels constitute a legitimate element of the competitive advantage of service providers. However, in the Committee on European Affairs, we discussed the relationship between the draft directive and the principle of subsidiarity at several meetings. At the committee meeting, my fellow Members unanimously supported the examination of subsidiarity and the finding of an infringement of the principle. On the basis of the additional reasons set out in detail in the report, I would also suggest that, in the same way as the proposal for a decision, this House takes the view that the draft directive violates the principle of subsidiarity. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-04-26-257	I now give the floor to István Józsa, the lead speaker of the MSZP group.
u2016-04-26-258	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, I am very pleased to hear from the Secretary of State for the first time that equal pay for equal work under appropriate geographical conditions. It's a very, very old employee target, I could say that it's a left-wing workers' movement motto. We were a little surprised that the European Commission is putting this into its agenda when it intends to amend the 1996 directive on posted workers. Of course, the Hungarian Socialist Party, as an authentic left-wing party, did not do so on such a national basis, but authentically... [[Intercoms from Jobbik's ranks. Laughing:]] The national and the socialist together are Jobbik's field, and I would not want to give an opinion on this right now; how much weimarize the country and history will decide. We are discussing a yellow flat procedure, which has been thoroughly explored by the Chairman of the Committee on European Affairs from a European procedural point of view. I'd rather approach it from a competitive side. Thus, according to the Commission's proposal, posted workers in terms of wages and working conditions would generally be subject to the same rules as local workers in the country in question. This is absolutely correct in terms of principles. What seems to be a problem: local relations are naturally regarded as competitive conditions, so local employers can divert the wages of local workers from the minimum wage in a given country under competitive market conditions to the extent that workers can combat, while at the same time wanting to provide for a framework for average compensation that is difficult to define in a given country for workers posted from other European countries. On the one hand, it is difficult to understand what average improvement means, so the President rightly said that labour costs include not only wages in the case of posting, but also the cost of housing there, the cost of transport. In fact, it used to be like, say, family absence allowance, because that's, let's just say, moral sacrifice; even if I didn't call it a pity, it's a sacrifice. So there are many aspects of such a cost. However, if this provision goes through without any comments, it is also of concern to the competition side. So the local worker can compete from the minimum wage for as long as he can, and if a Hungarian entrepreneur brings an employee there, then the competition will start from the average wage. It is therefore difficult to reconcile this with the EU's competition market principles, so that the MSZP, as a left-wing party, embraces and fights the equal pay motto for equal work, while at the same time fighting for that employee to have a job. Therefore, if entrepreneurs moving on the Hungarian competition market cannot win there, they cannot participate in the free competition because of such difficult or restrictive factors, then it is difficult to guarantee almost equal or even pay. Thus, the approach that posted workers in certain Member States, in certain sectors, can earn up to 50 percent less than local workers, on the one hand, is a serious problem on the justice side and, on the other hand, a competitive factor, because if we do not look at this issue from the side of local employment policy, this EU proposal, but, on the other hand, what the Secretary of State said about, say, the side of a vine grower in France, then, of course, he wants to be able to employ posted workers from Romania or Hungary at the time of harvest, who can be employed under economically more favourable conditions, because otherwise he would be looking for average wages in the French countryside, because he would probably find local workers for average wages. [[Dr. István Hiller, vice-president of the Parliament, takes the chair.]] So with this line of thought, I would like to get to the point that, although this motion seeks to establish a defendable position on the side of justice, that equal pay for equal work is, in fact, discriminatory, because it limits the chances of workers coming from emerging countries, in this case from Hungary. [[22.00]] So in this sense, the position of the MSZP is to accept the EU's social achievements, to accept that it is seeking justice, but also to take into account the principles of the competitive market that are the basis for the functioning of the Union. Thank you, Mr. President.
u2016-04-26-259	Good evening, everyone. We'll get back to work. The next speaker was Mr Firtl Mátyás, representative of KDNP. Here you go.
u2016-04-26-260	Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Among the priorities of the European Commission's work programme this year is the so-called labour mobility package, including the proposal for posted workers. On 8 March 2016, the European Commission presented a draft directive of the European Parliament and of the Council amending Directive 96/71/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 December 1996 on the posting of workers in the framework of the provision of services, which I will briefly mention in my speech as a proposal. This proposal consists of 4 points, the main elements of which I think it is important to point out that, as confirmed by the rapporteur on the agenda at the meeting of the Committee on European Affairs on 30 March, none of the four points are acceptable to the Hungarian Government. The main content of the proposal includes its main objective to ensure that the same work carried out in the same place for posted workers is rewarded in the same way. To this end, the remuneration rules resulting from local workers' legislation or generally applicable collective agreements would be extended to posted workers, the concept of minimum wage levels so far being replaced by the concept of remuneration. Another element of the proposal is that in the case of a longer term posting exceeding 24 months, the posted worker would be subject to the labour law of the host State. As a third element, Member States should publish the components of remuneration on a single official national website. It is also proposed to make generally applicable collective agreements applicable to posted workers in all economic sectors. I also think it is important to note that the Committee on European Affairs of the Hungarian Parliament has discussed this proposal in depth and in detail at two meetings, and has expressed the opinion that we need to report on the conditions for the adoption of a reasoned opinion, because this proposal violates the principle of subsidiarity on several points. Ladies and gentlemen, The Commission's report details the legal background and the subject of the subsidiarity assessment. The Commission report is also part of a detailed analysis of the subsidiarity study carried out in the Committee, which has led the Committee on European Affairs to express several concerns about the proposal, so that we are fully informed of the position on the principle of subsidiarity, as mentioned above. The reasons for the proposal, contrary to Article 5 of Protocol No 2, do not indicate any consistency with the principle of subsidiarity, nor does the impact assessment address the essential impact of the introduction of remuneration. Contrary to the principles of necessity and proportionality, it would result in interference with the freedom to provide services compared to the Directive and would artificially distort the conditions of competition to an extent which cannot be justified by the payment of wage costs. It does not create added value by introducing the concept of remuneration proposed instead of minimum wage levels, as the concept of remuneration is less clear and uncertain. The introduction of a concept which is not clear to all stakeholders is contrary to the principles of legal certainty and subsidiarity. It was not preceded by a broad consultation contrary to Article 2 of Protocol 2 and the Commission did not take into account the regional and local aspects of the proposed measure. With regard to the social policy area, as has already been said, the introduction of the concept of remuneration seeks to artificially compensate for differences in wage levels resulting from differences in economic development between Member States and not restricting competition, which is contrary to the supplementary powers of the Union in the field of social policy. Dear House, Given that the draft directive clearly violates the subsidiarity principle, KDNP cannot accept it at any point. Among the principles of the Christian Democratic People's Party, freedom, justice and solidarity are also one of the fundamental elements. On the one hand, the subsidiarity principle must be fully applied in the structure of society, but also in the policy of European Union affairs. Otherwise, there is a risk that the EU institutions will exceed their delegated powers. The Union institutions shall apply the principle of subsidiarity as set out in the Protocol on the application of the principles of subsidiarity and proportionality. National Parliaments shall ensure that the principle of subsidiarity is respected in accordance with the procedure laid down in that Protocol. In accordance with the principle of proportionality, the action of the Union should not go beyond what is necessary in order to achieve the objectives of the Treaties. Ladies and gentlemen, The concerns raised with regard to the draft directive also concern that it intends to amend the provisions on the status of temporary posted workers in a completely contrary manner to the principle of subsidiarity, which also means artificial and unacceptable interference with conditions of competition in the European Union. Furthermore, the transparency of the drafting of the draft is equally questionable, which could create legal uncertainty for stakeholders. Nor can it be avoided, nor has the KDNP faction considered the merits of the draft directive, that 9 Member States, as it turns out, have asked Commissioner Thyssen to postpone the revision of the existing legislation. Furthermore, Member States have also expressed concern that the principle of equal pay for the same work in the same place may be incompatible with the single market, since differences in levels of pay between Member States are an element of the competitive advantage of service providers. It is therefore unacceptable for KDNP, which can be seen from the above and from the report, that the substance does not mention the impact of the remuneration proposed instead of the minimum wage level on the freedom to provide services, the way in which it limits the conditions of competition and, where appropriate, the difficulty of posting EU citizens, workers, entrepreneurs to different Member States and the economic consequences thereof. We consider it important to stress that it is the temporary employment opportunities of large employers who are given this opportunity under EU law, which must be ensured. It is also important to stress that in every case in the national Parliament we must make decisions in the interests of Hungarian workers. If the new directive were to be adopted, the chances of Hungarian, Czech, Polish and other workers would be put at risk due to the wage difference, as this could lead to the loss of these opportunities. Dear House, Due to our commitment, we consider it important, on the basis of what has been said, that Hungary lodges an objection to the new directive. But it is also in our interest that the parliaments of other EU Member States do so. It is our duty to point out that the European Commission, contrary to Protocol 2 annexed to the Lisbon Treaty, does not justify the proposal's consistency with the principle of subsidiarity. It was not preceded by a broad consultation and did not take into account the regional and local aspects of the proposed measure. Ladies and gentlemen, On the basis of what has been said, the adoption of a report on the conditions for the adoption of a reasoned opinion is supported by the KDNP faction, and I call on my fellow Members to do so. Thank you for your attention. [[It's a rare round of applause in the pro-government benches.]] [[22.10]]
u2016-04-26-261	Thank you very much, Congressman. Congressman Tibor Bana, lead speaker of Jobbik. Here.
u2016-04-26-262	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, I would like to point out first that the Jobbik Group supports the proposal before us, and we also believe that this subsidiarity assessment must be carried out. The directive under discussion is an amendment aimed at eliminating the virtually one advantage of the new Member States over the old ones that posted workers enjoy a competitive advantage in Western markets. In addition to the fact that it represents a major intervention in the current competitive situation, it was a quick and unthinkable amendment and was not preceded by a broad consultation. As stated in the reasoned opinion, the subsidiarity principle is violated on several points, so, as we said at the Committee on European Affairs, Jobbik supports the adoption of this. The vote on the proposal would lead to job losses and a radical change in the current competitive position and should therefore be opposed in all forums. Furthermore, the impact assessment does not address the actual impact of introducing remuneration, we do not see [[He's laughing.]] what the consequences would be. Excuse me. The Commission consistently ignores the differences in economic development between Member States, which have led to Szilágyi... [[He's laughing. Nándor Csepreghy applauds.]] ... which makes certain provisions...
u2016-04-26-263	A little more discipline, please. I know it's late, the subject's quite cheerful, I understand that, but...
u2016-04-26-264	Not so much, because...
u2016-04-26-265	But with all due respect, let's create the conditions for late-night cheering so we can hear each other. [[Happy István: This is a serious topic!]] Congressman! [[Tibor Bana: Yes, yes.]] All right, pull yourself together, and then go on.
u2016-04-26-266	Thank you very much, Mr. President. So the subject is not so cheerful, I think, because the damage to the interests of the workers is definitely at the centre here, but some provisions, and so on, would affect them differently. [[He's laughing.]] So we continue to maintain that we will support the government's decisions in all cases where our national sovereignty is threatened, but there are bigger issues... [[He's laughing.]]
u2016-04-26-267	Looks like we've got some pretty serious problems.
u2016-04-26-268	Yeah, yeah, there's some confusion in the faction. [[Dr. Csaba Gyüre is leaving the Chamber.]] But that's why...
u2016-04-26-269	Please, I'm not interfering in your party affairs. [[Thank you, Mr. President.]] It's only my duty to listen to the lead speaker on the subject. [[Tibor Bana: That's right.]] And that's what I'm asking you to do.
u2016-04-26-270	Sure. So there are also major issues in which the government has not yet taken action, such as the issue of land, although the current regulations in these areas also seriously violate our national interests, and I am pleased that, in the end, there is a good mood regardless of the faction, and there is a united position on the matter that everyone will vote in favour of this proposal before us. It seems that the LMP will also do so, although they obviously do not have a representative in the committee, however, their comments will not be heard, but I am sure they will also support this. However, I would like to draw attention here to the fact that I can certainly support the subsidiarity assessment in this case, but I have reservations about whether this will ultimately achieve some kind of outcome. Therefore, the Committee on European Affairs, as Mr President has pointed out, has submitted such a proposal on several occasions, and we certainly have had to experience with the European Public Prosecutor's Office that the European Commission has completely ignored the opinions of the Member States. I'm afraid there is a possibility of that in this case, too. That is why it is important that we be able to adopt proposals at EU level that would have an impact on increasing the role of national parliaments. I am thinking, for example, of the fact that Jobbik can in any case support the British initiative to introduce the possibility of a red flat procedure, a veto in the Member States. I also think it is important to note that I would also like to thank the Commission staff for their work, because in recent months at committee meetings, when this proposal came before us, they have really presented us with a serious background that has helped us to do our job, and they have also played a major role in drawing up this proposal. So that's a lot of thanks to them. I urge the government, a little bit away from the concrete proposal then, to try to take action and to find allies in a way that will enable the substantive reform of EU decision-making to take place and increase the role of national parliaments. I have always voiced this basic position at the COSAC meetings, and I trust that, when I find the allies here, I refer primarily to the British initiative, we can go in this direction, and then there will be less and less need to initiate such subsidiarity investigations, so that, unfortunately, if it happened here, as in the prosecutor's office, there will be no meaningful consequences. So I think that would be the forward one. Thank you all very much for your attention here at this late hour.
u2016-04-26-271	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. There's no independent congressman in the room, no one's applied for a two-minute speech. I therefore call on the representative, Mr Nándor Gúr, who has asked for the normal word, MSZP. Here you go.
u2016-04-26-272	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I think it's serious, by the way, so now, regardless of everything. My fellow Member, Richard Hörcsik, spoke of the involvement of 60 to 70 thousand people in his upcoming thoughts, Mr Nándor Csepreghy, State Secretary, about 200,000. Now I'm not gonna start looking for the truth. [[Nándor Csepreghy: The centre of arithmetic!]] As far as I know, it's 50,000 to 70,000 people involved. This is not about numericality, but on the government side, at least we should agree on this between the national and the State Secretary. The only reason why it doesn't hurt is because we can see pretty clearly and clearly what the sphere of involvement is in this regard. But whether it's 50, 70, or 200,000 people, I think it's important that we deal with this issue. It is important because there is obviously an impact on the attitude of workers to the issue. Obviously, it is the work that they do, because it is not an accidental posting. So, on average, this activity covers an average of 4-5 months, and, as has been said, roughly 0.7 to 8.8 percent of the workers in the European labour world are affected by nearly 2 million people, 1.9 million people. There are large host countries in this regard, and interestingly, in relation to posting, those who are recipients are also at the forefront, where appropriate, of posted workers. It is well-known and known that it is practically three countries that are among the great recipients: Germany, as in general, together with France and Belgium in all respects. They are the great host countries. The three of them employ more than 50 percent of these nearly 2 million people - i.e. the admission to posted workers - in this period of 4-5 months, in the context of an average periodical posting. And again, as I have said, there are countries who play a significant role in sending, which also includes Germany, in cooperation with the Poles, but also with other countries, the French. That is not the essence of the story, but, in fact, what kind of activities are primarily affected by posting. The most moderate, the most impressive is construction. As far as I know, the construction sector has a 44-45 percent share in the whole, the manufacturing industry plays a significant role, and the combined existence of the health and education sector is more than 10 percent, but the business service is also about this value and share of the whole. [[22.20]] More importantly, my colleague Józsa has already pointed out in part that it is in fact that in certain sectors and in certain Member States, so we can look at it separately and treat it together, posted workers earn up to 50 percent less than local workers in that country. Whether that's okay or not, that's where the thinking about the question begins, obviously. This intention to change is basically affecting the level of wages, placing its shaping and shaping in the focus. The leeway is that today there is a minimum wage payment obligation, and here the proposal itself talks about the payment of the average wage. It is important to stress that, of course, it is always understood that the average wage of a given professional salary, not the average wage of all the earners in a given country, but the average wage of people who work in a given field, according to the old wording, is the average wage of a FEOR. Should it be good, free, for example, that people who are posted abroad from Hungary, working in other countries of the European Union, receive this average professional salary from the country in question? This is a good thing in the light of the fact that they obviously have more money, more welfare. It is also good from that point of view, which is one of the most important of our basic efforts to pay equal pay for equal work. But we all obviously know that in the labour market, be it narrowly tailored to the labour market of a given country, or in a broader sense, let us say, the labour market of the European Union, wages and jobs are closely linked. Fighting for wages - quoted in quotes - can in some ways be associated with damage to jobs in some cases. This is the risk factor that the government and the author consider when they say, by relying on the principle of subsidiarity, that it is not certain that it is appropriate and reasonable to enforce this effort, because it may result in a certain loss of work areas for businesses and thus in the loss of posting opportunities for the country. There is truth in this, but not in the form of a direct approach, in my view. Therefore, not with the existence of so far circumstances that must characterize the coming period, i.e. the future. I think that if there are no stimulating effects in the background on whether the employer, or the Hungarian company, who sent his employees out to perform a particular activity or to perform a service, should be interested in a certain sense in paying the employee at a higher level or having some kind of obligation behind the story, this will not happen. I will give you a simple example, just in order to be absolutely clear, within the framework of Hungary, there is no need to step out of the boundaries. The exact figure I remember, I use it. Within the framework of Hungary, Lőrinc Mészáros received a dividend of HUF 800 million from the company of Lőrinc Mészáros - I am talking about the gas mechanic of the country - and his wife, who, after that, I believe, resigned for Lőrinc Mészáros. So, in one person, Lőrinc Mészáros receives HUF 800 million in dividends on his economic activity in 2012, and employs 225 people that year, and these 225 people pay HUF 157 million in wages and wage payments. Do you understand the numbers, what I'm saying? Once again, I want to make it clear, because Secretary of State Csepreghy is watching, watching, looking, and I see that he is watching with his eyes frozen, too. [[Nándor Csepreghy: I try not to look cold!]] Yes, it is, Mr. State Secretary, just to make it clear that an entrepreneur will take a dividend of HUF 800 million while making a wage-like payment of HUF 157 million in addition to the employment of 225 people. I didn't just give that example at random. Simply because if there are no stimulating effects that can affect the way that a working person is paid, and this occurs in a legally strengthened form, it is exploitation that becomes dominant. A typical example is what I have said. In this sense - and I come back to the original thinking - I also think that it is important to pay attention to whether, abroad, whether it is in the construction sector or in the field of service activities, awarded employers should not, from a basic point of view, think that the people who do work will receive the lowest possible wage within the framework of the posting. So it is also necessary to start thinking, in terms of logic, I say, by relying on the principle of subsidiarity, what you are saying, but also to think about how to create a situation where workers are, whether they are posted or not, but not in a vulnerable situation. I think that's the most important part of the story. Within the framework of these changes, there are also items that I believe are not to be hated from the gut, because the rights and opportunities within the framework of the collective agreement, or from the other side, the existence, operation and enforcement of obligations are also included in these thinking. And it is also true that when it comes to posting with a longer duration, it is not the average period of 4-5 months, but, let's say, a year and a half mission, or rather, what is more specific, it is more clear that, in relation to this type of work with a duration of less than two years, domestic social security matters in the country of dispatch are in effect, and that only after the length of postings after two years, which exceed two years, there is a system where domestic social security procedural methods are no longer in place, but that of the host country, i.e. the country in which the work is carried out by the people in the posting, these are in place. So-so, if I had to sum up this story, I'd do it in three thoughts. One is that my personal creed is that it is absolutely necessary to strive for equal pay for equal work. Whether it is anywhere, outside Hungary or Hungary. It is difficult to imagine that we should not think or act in this direction if it is not a posting, but simply leave Hungary. Our aim is that if they already work in other countries - in the UK, Germany, Austria and in the vast majority - they will receive the same wage as the citizens of a given country. That effort is therefore clear and accepted by everyone. If it's not a posting. When it comes to posting, however, the government and the author approach this issue on a different basis. I understand this approach, too, but I would like to ask you to create some kind of safeguards system, some kind of motivational background for all of this, which is about those who do their work not in Hungary but elsewhere within the framework of the posting should not become prisoners of employers in this sense, so that they should not become fully vulnerable. The third thing about this issue is that it is obviously always in our minds: the issue of the security of wages and jobs. This is important not only within the framework of the employment relationship, not only in relation to the provision of service activities, but also in this case in a tangible way, in line with the work of posted workers. [[22.30]] So I think that, in addition to the fact that the government is clearly taking a clear position on this issue, these points should also be considered, simply in order to ensure that the protection of workers and the daily livelihood of workers are better than in the present period. I'm telling you, this is true not only for posted workers. My last thought is that it would be okay, Mr State Secretary, if my fellow Member, Hörcsik, were to be roughly put on a platform in your opinion of the number of people working in the framework of the European Union's posting from Hungary. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2016-04-26-273	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, On behalf of the government, Mr. Nándor Csepreghy asked for the floor. Here you go.
u2016-04-26-274	Mr President, Thank you very much for the word and for the opportunity. During my short political and parliamentary career, I have never experienced such an overall consensus, and allow me to express my gratitude and thanks to Jobbik's representative for the funny moments. [[Tibor Bana: You're welcome!]] I think that we could launch a campaign for the general public, so that people can watch these professional debates instead of plenary sessions, and then perhaps we could be more successful in burying political trenches in the country. We will see if this initiative is adopted. Since Mr Gúr mentioned the disagreement between Mr Hörcsik and the numbers I mentioned, one of them came from the fact that I was talking about the numbers V4 and he was talking about the numbers for Hungary, and so it adds up. I will kneel on corn, I promise you, Congressman, that for a while I have maintained the appearance of a professional disagreement between Fidesz and the government. However, allow me to respond substantially to the speeches by Members on a few issues, first of all to what Congressman Tessely has said. The most important issue, which is reflected in this Commission initiative, is that the future of the European Union - and this has already been mentioned here in Parliament - will basically be about the dissolution of the 28 Member States of the European Union in a single framework, losing their nation-state character, or the line that seeks to strengthen and strengthen the political, social and economic confirmation of the European Union's strength in the cooperation of 28 nations and in the reconciliation of its individual interests. The Hungarian Government has taken a clear stand in favour of the latter, and I think that in this political movement and in other measures, either the Members of Parliament or the citizens and voters following Parliament's work clearly see this. Indeed, the question of proportionality is a very important issue in this debate that we are talking about a problem that appears in a different dimension for the Member States of Western Europe, which basically receive these workers and which appears in a completely different dimension for the EU Member States of Central and Eastern Europe, which send these workers. That is why we think that this cannot be regulated at a pan-European level. What is needed is a solution that, in terms of the minimum wage, really creates equality between the different citizens of the European Union and between citizens from different states, but in terms of average wage, it does make it a very important factor in market competition, who can provide services at what price and does not attempt to artificially intervene - one of the European Union's principles - on the issue of the free movement of labour. Indeed, this raises questions that, in the search for a crisis in the European Union, where it is apparent that the old, stronger and richer Member States of the European Union are trying to put some pressure on the European Commission to adopt new rules, which, we believe, will adversely affect the Member States that joined after 2004, raises a very serious question as to whether this two-speed Europe will indeed be created. But since this is already basically spoken of as a fact, I suggest that everyone should consider not only the dangers, but also the benefits for the Central and Eastern European region, because in a two-speed European community it is not written down anywhere, and it is not clear anywhere in our view that the first speed of this should be the old Western European Member States, since 13 new Member States have joined the European Union since 2004. I think that these 13 new Member States, whether in terms of their internal market or in terms of economic growth that can be taken into account in this group of Member States, can be a worthy challenge to these new economic challenges for the old Western European Member States of the European Union. There has been no precedent for the speeches made by Mr Józsa, but I must say that I fully agree with the Member, and we have also lived here at the late hour, at 10:30. I would not like to add him in this regard. I think that there is an ambition in which the Hungarian Parliament, if it can show unity and raise other national parliaments from the Central and Eastern European region, can take an initiative where these Member States really recognise the possibility that accession to the European Union has opened up not only an opportunity for economic growth but also a whole new dimension of political interest. The fact that there is a political consensus on such a issue in the Hungarian Parliament, I think that it is forward-looking in many cases. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[It's a rare round of applause from the pro-government ranks.]]
u2016-04-26-275	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, I'll see if anyone else wants to tell me. [[Dr. István Józsa: The author has applied.]] I'm gonna say no. As no one has made any further comments, the joint general debate is closed. It can now be concluded by the author of the report or the proposal for a decision. I will ask Congressman Hörcsik if he wishes to speak. [[Dr. Richard Hörcsik: Yes.]] Here you go.
u2016-04-26-276	Mr President, Mr. Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, First of all, I would like to thank my fellow Members, regardless of which horseshoe they are sitting in, for their very constructive participation not only in today's debate, but also in these committee meetings. Not only in the report, but in the proposal for a decision, there were mainly policy contributions. Perhaps that is the secret, Mr Secretary of State, that there has been less demagogy and more attention has been drawn to policy considerations. By the way, I note that this is the characteristic of our committee, our work in the Commission, and therefore the situation of the Committee on European Affairs is special. I believe that at this stage of EU decision-making, where we are now, this is what we need most, and if anything makes sense, this is it; it is true that we need to draw the European Commission's attention to the aspects on which the draft directive is incompatible with the principle of subsidiarity. I am pleased that my fellow Members now understand this method, because let us recall that very few of my fellow Members in 2013 understood what this yellow flat procedure was. I feel that this is not only a legal opportunity for the Hungarian Parliament, which the Lisbon Treaty provides for us, but also an obligation, since who else would represent Hungarian interests if it were not for the Hungarian Parliament. I believe that, on the basis of various aspects, my fellow Members have also pointed out that they have raised a number of concerns about the draft directive, since they wish to amend the provisions on the status of posted workers in a way that is contrary to the principle of subsidiarity. Well, it does not create added values, its need cannot be justified, and it limits the freedom to provide services in a disproportionate way. Here I would like to thank my fellow Member, Józsa, for drawing attention to an interesting point, namely that the European Commission actually wants to adopt a decision in the European Union with a slogan representing left-wing values, for the same job. This is basically a left-wing value that left-wing parties have represented in Europe for decades. So far, that's okay. However, my fellow Member, Nándor Gúr, drew attention to another important point, which is the safety of jobs. [[22.40]] Well, I would resolve this contradiction by saying that a sparrow today is better than a bustard tomorrow, that, yes, the European Commission is trying to force its will on the Member States with a stealthy legislation, as is so typically the case in other cases. For the same job, everyone agrees with the same wage, but if we look at it, it is really trying to drive Hungarian and Central European workers and employers out of the German or French market, thus creating a competitive disadvantage for Hungarian workers, and that is not fair. I believe that if the Commission or three or four Member States have problems, tell me face to face, and then we can argue. But it is very difficult because, on the one hand, it is misleading, and on the other, we know that 19 votes may not come together. Ladies and gentlemen, I therefore consider it important that the Hungarian Parliament draws the European Commission's attention, with a reasoned opinion, to the breach of the principle of subsidiarity. It has also been suggested that it is still an open question whether the vote for the yellow flat launch will come together 19 votes or not. I note that we are currently at around 10 votes, but even if it does not work out, I still feel that these 10 votes, which we already have, are a very strong and clear message for the European Commission, and, of course, it cannot be enough to stress that there are two more weeks left and that, according to my information, we can wait for further reasoned opinions to be adopted. So, ladies and gentlemen, whether 19 votes come together or not, I believe that EU decision-making can be influenced by a larger number of so-called reasoned opinions in the national Parliament alone. In the Council, the representatives of governments and the governments of the Member States are able to channel the content of the reasoned opinion of the national Parliament, which indicates that the work of the Committee on European Affairs was not in vain, the work of the Hungarian Parliament was not in vain, and of course it is important that the representatives of the Hungarian Parliament agree on this and the Hungarian Parliament and the Hungarian Government agree. Of course, we also expect the representatives of the Central and Eastern European Member States to be present in the European Parliament, who in a sense can influence the fate of the draft direction. Ladies and gentlemen, I would therefore like to thank the representatives of the factions once again for their reinforcement, in accordance with their speeches, of the report of the Committee on European Affairs and the proposal for a decision, and, of course, where necessary, they added their valuable comments. Finally, I note that under the Lisbon Treaty, national parliaments have received a number of new powers, with which I believe that for the third time the Hungarian Parliament has been able to live and live properly. When we have to and need to, we have a voice, and I believe that this debate tonight has convinced me of that. Thank you very much, fellow Members. [[Applause in the ranks of the governing parties and the Jobbik.]]
u2016-04-26-277	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I would like to inform you that it is possible to submit proposals amending the proposal for a decision by 16:00 on Thursday. Dear Parliament, There will be a general debate on the bill to amend certain national defence laws until closure. Government referral T/10311. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, I give the floor to Mr Tamás Vargha, Secretary of State of the Ministry of Defence, author of the item on the agenda. Here.
u2016-04-26-278	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, In order to achieve the goal and goal, the government will do everything in its power to acknowledge both financially and morally the sacrifice and service of the soldiers. To this end, it will continuously monitor the living conditions associated with the service and, at the same time, review and review the national defence regulators in order to create the most optimal legal environment for soldiers' working and living conditions. This package is also the result of this review, and it is also shown from its title that the package amends several laws in order to recognise those serving on the field of defence and make this profession attractive to those who think only on the field of defence. The first of the proposed laws is the law on the status of civil servants and the purpose of the amendment is to create the necessary authorisation and related legislation for civil servants in the defence, based on experience in the application of the law. The amendment is justified by the fact that Kjt. At present, it excludes the application of the Labour Code to civil servants, which allows for the possibility of applying the allowance for workers. The introduction of this bonus was based on experience in dealing with the migration crisis and the implementation of defence practices. Chapter IX of 2010 on the establishment and amendment of certain economic and financial laws The purpose of the amendment of Act No 1 - more commonly known as the Special Tax Act - is to ensure exemption from the special tax on certain revenue paid in connection with the termination of service, thereby strengthening and thanking the State for the special public service character of the military service. The amendment to the Special Tax Act clarifies the provision which removes from the special tax base certain amounts paid in the context of a group reduction. The 2012 CCV on the status of soldiers. The purpose of the amendment of Law No 1 is to clarify certain legal institutions on the basis of practical application experience and to amend the rules on the voluntary reserve system. These amendments therefore only adapt the norm system to the rapidly changing daily quality of life. The Act on the Status of Patriots does not currently contain the rules on the communication of the declaration of rights in electronic form, the addition in accordance with the submitted text aims at establishing the legal basis for the regulation on electronic documents. In the course of the administrative conciliation of the proposal, the National Court Office considers that the provisions are exemplary in the context of these provisions. Also a sign of rapid technical change and follow-up at the present time is the following reason for the proposal to settle the issues of the appearance of staff members in the social media, since it is necessary to prevent staff members from being able to indicate their organisation on Internet sites, in particular social media. In this way, it is possible to prevent statements from coming to light on certain topics that combine individual opinions, i.e. private opinions, with the operation of the Hungarian Defence Service for the service of the country. The government's goal is to provide our countrymen with the safest possible background, both in service and in private. On the basis of the amendment, in order to ensure a fundamental right to rest, in the case of a foreign service, the staff member is entitled not only to a minimum of 8 hours of service on a public holiday, but also to a day off after eight hours a week. In the interest of gender equality, the rapporteur considered further clarifications necessary. Under the rules in force, the mother is entitled to immunity from the service if the absence of parental leave for the purpose of childcare is exercised by both parents. The repeal of this provision serves to comply with Article 14 (paragraph 1) (c) of the Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council on the implementation of the principle of equal opportunities and equal treatment between men and women in the field of employment and work. Finally, the last law to be amended in line is XCVII of 2013 on defence data management and military management tasks related to the performance of certain defence obligations. The purpose of this amendment is to clarify the provisions on the processing of personal data in force, taking into account the experience of the application of the law. [[22.50]] For compliance with paragraph 1 (c). Finally, the last law to be amended in line is XCVII of 2013 on defence data management and military management tasks related to the performance of certain defence obligations. The purpose of this amendment is to clarify the provisions on the processing of personal data in force, taking into account the experience of the application of the law. (22.50) The proposal to amend the law is adapted to the government's efforts to promote the increasing use of the possibility of electronic administration. Accordingly, it allows the data subject to report a change in his data through the electronic customer service system. This significantly reduces administrative time, reduces bureaucracy and makes resources rational. With the establishment of a new military police force this year, there was a need to standardise a new type of uniform military police ID. The organisation of the military police ID requires the processing and recording of personal data, which this proposal establishes the legal basis for. Finally, the proposal also clarifies the rules of competence in relation to the defence fine. Dear Parliament, The government is determined to ensure the working conditions of the soldiers and, on the other hand, to repay them for improving their living conditions. This amendment is without prejudice to the system for the development of salaries, starting from July 2015 and increasing the salary base until 2019. Compared to the 2015 level prior to the introduction of the defence career in the coming years, the budget for the salaries of the military will increase by an average of 50 per cent by 1 January 2019. The Hungarian Defence Office is based on volunteering in peacetime. It is the responsibility of the Ministry of Defence to promote the defence career, and the establishment of the law establishing the career is the responsibility of the Parliament. By adopting the draft text before us, not only can the legislator adapt the regulation to the rapidly changing world, but it can also make the sacrifice and service that has never been more attractive in view of today's international and security situation and circumstances since the regime change. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like your votes to support the adoption of the bill. Thank you for your attention.
u2016-04-26-279	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Now we're going to hear the speeches from the lead speaker. First, I give the floor to Congressman Miklós Simon, the lead speaker of Fidesz. Here.
u2016-04-26-280	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, The current proposal amends several laws at the same time, ensuring that the military field and its rules follow the changes to the constantly changing regulatory environment. As Mr Secretary of State has said, the proposal is the result of a review and thus gives rise to the legislative amendments in question. As regards civil servants employed in the defence, it became necessary that the possibility of a substitute girl be applied, which would give additional financial recognition to civil servants in the defence sector. Accordingly, the following changes are being made. By amending the special tax law, the special tax will not apply to severance payments and the Jubilee Prize or reintegration allowance. The Law on the Status of Patriots aims to clarify the individual legal institutions and to amend the rules on the voluntary reserve system in order to adapt them to everyday life. Such an amendment would be that declarations of rights could be made in electronic form, which would reduce the administrative burden on the stock. The Hjt. a further modification of the staff will regulate the presence of members of the staff in social media and will make a positive change in the guarantee of fundamental rights to rest. The Hjt. further changes would ensure that candidates and candidates for military officers can receive performance benefits if they perform their work with outstanding performance or perform additional tasks. The purpose of the amendment of the law on defence processing is to clarify the provisions on the processing of data in force. This amendment is adapted to the government's efforts to ensure that the possibility of electronic administration is also available in this area, so that changes in the data subject's data can also be reported by the customer in the electronic customer service, thus facilitating administration. Ladies and gentlemen, With the present proposal of the Ministry of Defence, the Ministry of Defence proposes positive amendments, which are the result of everyday experience and are a positive change for the defence. The Fidesz fraction supports the current proposal, please support it. [[Happy Stephen applauds.]]
u2016-04-26-281	Thank you very much. Congressman Imre Horváth, the lead speaker of the MSZP is next. Here you go.
u2016-04-26-282	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, Perhaps, at first glance, this bill may seem to be nothing more than a review of the law of the service of soldiers, which is essentially legal. However, appearances are deceiving. The bill is not simply a transfer of the experience of law enforcement over the past period, as the justification suggests. In fact, this proposal is another step in the way of the disenfranchisement of the Hungarian Army's military and civil servants. 'Cause every time you go to the Service Act, it's always the result of a new legal restriction. Now, for example, it is up to soldiers and military workers to carve down their allowances, to which, in an insidious way, the bill that is now in front of us opens the way. One of these rules is directly in the bill 1. §2 of the Act. This provision, I quote, may seem harmless at first reading: an implementing regulation for civil servants employed in the Hungarian Defence Service, in connection with the performance of defence tasks, is set out in the Labour Code 143 and 144. A flat-rate allowance may be fixed per day instead of the allowance provided for in Article 4 of this Regulation. But what does that rule mean? The sections referred to in the Labour Code set out the level of special work and on-call and standby allowances. According to this, for extraordinary work, there are 50 percent, 20 percent in the case of standby and 40 percent in the case of on-call. Instead, the Minister for Defence would set a flat-rate allowance instead of a supplement guaranteed by the law today. What motivates the elimination of statutory allowances for defence workers? Does the Orbán government want to provide fewer or more allowances with this amendment? Since Viktor Orbán has not raised the salary of civil servants by a penny since his election as Prime Minister in 2010, we have no reason to believe that by eliminating the rules of law they would now want to favour the workers. While György Matolcsy's salary was raised a few weeks ago on the grounds that European standards of remuneration should be ensured, this was not an important aspect for Fidesz in the case of civil servants' salaries. Based on the experience of recent years, it is hardly a question of whether the flat-rate bonus laid down in the Minister of Defence's decree will mean less than the present one for defence workers at the end of the month. [[23.00]] This is unacceptable for the already underpaid stock. The reduction of the overtime allowance is particularly unacceptable, given that an amendment to the law adopted in December 2015 in spite of the strong objection of the MSZP has brutally increased the maximum number of extraordinary work hours in the event of a crisis caused by mass immigration, which could be up to 832 hours per year, or 104 working days per year. The government and Fidesz don't treat soldiers with any more gloves than the civil servants of the military. In the last law adopted in December last year, almost unlimited opportunities were given to restrict the rights of soldiers as defined by the Service Act in the event of a crisis caused by mass immigration. According to this, the provisions of the Service Act concerning service performance periods and rest periods can be completely overwritten and replaced by the command of the commander in charge of the organisation of services. We have already explained in December of last year that such a suspension of laws in peacetime is a complete mockery of the rule of law. After limiting their rights, the soldiers serving at the southern border may now face a reduction in the allowances. Under the current rules, in the event of a crisis caused by mass immigration and in the event of disaster management tasks, the daily amount of the additional charge shall be set at between 5 and 10 per cent of the absentee fee. However, according to the bill, in the future the amount of the bonus will not be set at between 5 and 10 per cent, but at 1 to 10 per cent. It can hardly be our illusion that this amendment envisages a significant reduction in the amount of allowances. These amendments clearly show that the Hungarian Defence Office cannot manage the remuneration of the extra work from its current scarce budget, and the Hungarian Defence Office is only able to carry out its tasks by ordering an enormous amount of overtime. Tamás Harangozó informed my fellow Member in his written reply to a question from the Minister of Defence that a total of 1 million 947 thousand 774 hours of service had been ordered for soldiers and workers of the Hungarian Defence Forces in 2015. The Hungarian Socialist Party's firm position is that the increasing lack of peacetime personnel in the defence cannot be remedied by the extreme strain of the current population over a longer period of time. The bill before us also shows that the government is trying to go further in this direction, which is unacceptable. The actual number of Hungarian Defence Forces is far below the number allowed. General Tibor Benkő, Chief of Honvéd Chief of Staff, informed the Hungarian Defence and Police Committee in November last year that 5500 soldiers were missing from the regular numbers of the Hungarian Defence Forces. Moreover, the actual number of soldiers has been decreasing for years, according to the closing laws, the average annual statistical number of contract soldiers in 2009 was 5950, which decreased to 5042 by 2014. While the Hungarian Defence Forces have been losing their numbers year after year, in recent years there have been extremely negative changes in the security environment of Hungary and the European Union as a whole. In the light of the changed circumstances, the huge shortage of staff of the Hungarian Defence Forces also poses a significant security risk. In view of these extremely worrying processes, the Hungarian Socialist Party submitted a proposal for a resolution which would have required the government to fill the army. However, Fidesz has already voted against this proposal on two occasions. While there is money for stadiums and small trains, they are not even willing to provide the resources necessary for the basic operation of the Hungarian Defence Forces. Unfortunately, protecting the country at Fidesz is only a cheap propaganda text, while at the southern border, soldiers and police officers who truly provide protection of the country are forced to serve in deplorable circumstances. In addition to the allowances, there are other restrictions and tightenings in the bill. The law governing the service relationship of soldiers also includes the provision in the case of law enforcement workers that the Minister may prohibit the disclosure of data relating to his or her debt as a private individual on the internet site when declaring a private opinion. This wording is so broad that it is possible to prohibit the publication of photos on Facebook. In our view, this limitation provision in its current form is completely unjustified. Without this provision, truly insubordination manifestations can be sanctioned. Due to its importance, the provision of the bill which seeks to mitigate the consequences of an earlier act of the Orbán government which has deprived the law must be mentioned. It is recalled that from 1 January 2012 Fidesz terminated the institution of the service pension with a single stroke of the pen. The possibility of retirement was also taken away from people who, in the light of previous conditions, took up the professional service with significant obligations. With this, the state violated the agreement they made with the soldiers and law enforcement workers during their equipment. The bill shows that the complete and immediate abolition of the service pension system has created a difficult situation for the defence. The situation of professional soldiers who have already served several decades, but who have become unfit for military service for health or psychological reasons before the retirement age, is currently being dealt with by placing them on the market. According to the rules in force, the duration of the staff of provision may be limited to a period of up to 16 months, depending on the duration of the service, public service or public service. In contrast to previous vocal speeches, the government does not seem to be able to ensure further employment in another legal relationship, which, of course, is not surprising in the light of the fact that dismissals are being planned in the public administration as well. Therefore, this bill allows the extension of the provision by another year. This could be a significant help to stakeholders, so the amendment in this respect is welcome. At the same time, it reiterates the error and miscalculation of the total abolition of the service pension system. Overall, despite several useful amendments to assist the operation and task of the military, the bill cannot be supported in its present form, taking into account further restrictions and restrictions on the stock. We will therefore make proposals for amendments. The MSZP will support the bill in the final vote only if the restrictive and restrictive provisions are removed. Thank you very much.
u2016-04-26-283	Thank you very much. Congressman Gergely Kulcsár is next, lead speaker of Jobbik. Here.
u2016-04-26-284	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, The T/10311 in front of us. Bill No. 1 aims to amend a number of relevant laws due to certain questions relating to the service relationship. [[23.10]] These include the Public Employee Act, the Special Tax Act, the Law on the Status of Homelanders, and changes the rules on data processing. These may be amended if the proposal is adopted. In particular, I would like to make a few points about the amendment of the law on the status of soldiers and the position of Jobbik. The President of the Republic's power of appointment has given rise to the possibility that the President of the Republic may refuse to take decisions if, and I quote the proposal, he/she has reason to believe that it has caused a serious disturbance in the democratic functioning of the State Organisation. Well, there's nothing about this passage in the explanatory statement, and there's no interpretation anywhere, so we don't know what that means, and it could give us too much space anyway. That is the answer we would like from the Secretary of State. New rule is the Facebook ban just mentioned. You can register on this social media site, but you can't write where the data subject works if the Minister forbids it in an internal order. As far as I know, this is standard practice for the police, and in our view it is right and right. There is a question of the proposal 35. In this context, it aims at making the use of electronic administration as widely as possible. This legal requirement requires an appropriate technical background, whether this can be ensured or ensured by all stakeholders at national level until the law enters into force, i.e. until 1 July. We consider the proposal to be problematic 24. Article 215 of the Act on the Status of Patrons § (1) amends. Point (d) of this paragraph - and I would also quote from the bill - is: The service of the volunteer reserve soldier will cease if the volunteer reserve soldier fails to comply with national security control or has not made the necessary security or contribution statement within the deadline. In our opinion, people who are committed to home should be put in a position, but if they are already or are currently opposed to central government ideas, so that they cannot be politically committed to Fidesz, they should be excluded from this option. This proposal can create an excuse here, and this excuse could be a national security risk, which does not really need to be specified or made public. They can exclude ready-to-do patriots from this opportunity on a political basis. In our opinion, this is a real danger. Of course, we need a national security risk analysis, but not on the terms you handle it. I would also like to talk about the extra salary, which is the Act on the Status of Homelanders 36. It is included in paragraph 1 of §8 (1) of the Act. It is proposed that, in the case of the performance of the duties, the absence fee may be set at 1 to 10 per cent per day. This is an increase in the take-up allowance, which is mainly defined as the benefit of persons deployed in the crisis caused by mass immigration, and to this extent, as I have just mentioned, 1-10 percent. In our view, this is acceptable only if the internal content is determined in an exact manner when the percentage of this bonus can be. We also consider the magnitude to be small, long-term absence not only represents additional costs for the person in charge, but it can also be a serious financial and physical burden for his abandoned family. Otherwise, it is only in parentheses that the reason for the large number of divorces in the army is largely due to this. For our soldiers who have been ordered to the border, or in a disaster situation, let's say in a flood situation, there is little such supplement, which can be 1-2 percent. A percentage should be set, because clearly the tasks are not the same, but in this connection we will have an amendment proposal, and we hope that the government will accept this. To sum up, therefore, the financial appreciation of our soldiers does not increase with this proposal, although there are eligible elements in it, but there are some points in question regarding the powers of the President of the Republic already mentioned, and there are things that Jobbik cannot accept. Such is the amount of the absentee fee and the national security control of the voluntary reserve soldiers already mentioned. If our amendments are supported by the government, we can support the proposal, otherwise we will not support it. Thank you so much for listening. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2016-04-26-285	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. There's no independent congressman in the room. Mr Nándor Gúr asked for a two-minute speech, MSZP. Here.
u2016-04-26-286	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr Secretary, I just want to focus on one question. Actually, I don't know why you guys are so pissed off about this, but it's been showing since 2011 that you don't like the story of this allowance. In connection with the Labour Code, the afternoon allowance has been cut, the night allowance has been reduced, and they are now fighting in the last few weeks against the stand-by allowance, right, this concerns the MÁV most, most intensively. This is also the case with the introduction of a flat-rate bonus in a manner that is similar to that of other cases. So, Secretary of State, can you guarantee that everything you do in this regard is not accompanied by the conclusion that people affected by this come out of the story worse? All signs point to the fact that you can't guarantee this, but I would like to hear from your mouth that, of course, you can guarantee it, and everything that is said on the opposition side is a mistake or a bad conclusion, because the people involved here can't do any worse, but they will do better. I would like to hear this from your mouth, and obviously, after monitoring the processes, it will be possible to confirm the relevance of your commitments and your words. If you cannot guarantee, then I say that you are doing what you have done several times in the last six years, that you do not approach the issue from the perspective of the interests of the workers and do not act accordingly. They suck people out, and they don't get paid. Mr. President, thank you very much.
u2016-04-26-287	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, I will ask if anyone else wishes to take the opportunity to speak. [[No signal.]] I'm gonna say no. As no one has made any further comments, the general debate is closed. I will ask Mr Secretary of State, as rapporteur, if he wishes to react. [[For signal:]] Here you go.
u2016-04-26-288	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I am sorry that opposition parties have read the text through party political glasses and have not understood the substance of the text, either deliberately misunderstood or deliberately misunderstood, and are talking about disenfranchised rights, the taking of allowances, the limitation of rights, and the limitation of the rights of soldiers. If they had read the text carefully and with their party political glasses off, they would have understood the real intention. I don't understand how Congressman Imre Horváth can say that to force us to upload the files that are missing from the Hungarian Defence Service, which would mean that you want us to force people into our ranks? [[Imre Horváth: This was not said.]] I do not understand how he could have thought of this, but with his comment and the fact that he interpreted and misinterpreted the text in this way, the MSZP proves the same thing he did when he was invited to the five-party consultation at which we would have discussed the bill to ensure the safety of Hungarian people and the safety of Hungary. This proves that it is not important for you to serve the Hungarian soldiers, to acknowledge the service of the Hungarian soldiers, to protect Hungary and to ensure the safety of the Hungarian people. [[23.20]] Congressman Gergely Kulcsár found the bill partially eligible, which I thank you for, and I urge the Member to examine and read this text not through party policy glasses. I think that your opinion on national security risks needs to be reviewed, because the most natural thing is that a person who poses a national security risk cannot undertake such a service. Thank you very much for the speech in favour of the bill, and I urge my fellow Members to read the bill carefully and to support it in the final vote. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of Fidesz.]]
u2016-04-26-289	Thank you. Dear Parliament, The amendments may be submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the discussion of our agendas today. It is now time for the speeches after the agenda. First, after the agenda, Mr Ander Balázs, Mr Jobbik, asked for a speech:. How much are the hardworking little people worth, or will there be someone on the government's side to wait for the end of the day and take over the protest petition containing the signatures of the rail guards condemned to outsourcing? It's an address. Here you go.
u2016-04-26-290	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Looks like no one's getting me to stay here, no one wants to take over these protest signatures. I ask whether these hardworking little people can expect anything from the government, if they should be heard not only in the field of government propaganda, but in fact, they should be dealt with in substance, they should really be taken care of, not only at the level of habonyi demagogy. Will MÁV Vasútő Kft. remain? Is it the workplace of nearly 650 employees, or will a company that employs its employees black or grey for hunger, laws and other laws? - we've been asking Jobbik's question for three years in the previous cycle. Unfortunately, the basic situation has remained unchanged since then, although today, the shameful machinations of outsourcing ordering extra profit from government orders, which are standing around the meat pots, are reaching its conclusion. I also held a press conference for the cause, made a statement to the media, and asked my questions here, within the walls of Parliament. They were cynical when I talked about putting your hands off the railway guards and putting an end to the cross-border practice of government-wide capitalists looking at the railway as their own dairy cows. Fidesz is happy to increase its government's overpowerment in the face of undoubtedly potential terrorist threats caused by fanatics of non-European-compatible immigrant hordes who are ready to commit suicide. You don't have to be a security expert to see that wagons on freight stations carrying dangerous goods can function as chemical bombs. Rail patrols, well-equipped, well-trained and not least highly respected rail guards would be needed. But when I asked why, in such a situation, there was no meaningful answer to that. Just as during the debate day on the fight against increasing corruption and the accountability of corrupted politicians, my comments on the anomalies around outsourcing have been flung down from the authorities like peas thrown on the wall. The concerns of those who were vulnerable to money-hungry sharks were shaken off like dogs. We've been used to being as constructive as the government is about any better-than-thou thing. Now, however, I have the pacsameta of a protest petition containing the signatures of the most committed workers in the sector condemned to outsourcing, some 350 angry railroad names, addresses and signatures that the petitioners sent to me. As they disagreed with the outsourcing of the railway guard from the MÁV bond, they called on the owner, the Hungarian State, to stop the transfer of railway activities into private hands. We have often stressed that the outsourcing of railway guards is detrimental to workers, you know, to the small people working hard, but also to the railway company itself. This gives room for the black and grey economy, has a negative impact on the budget, and, last but not least, can adversely affect rail safety, which is sometimes on trembling legs. Unfortunately, no one has naive hopes, the outsourcing workers are only protected by the collective agreement for a year, and then they sink into the swamp of the black economy. We therefore have the right to ask where the limit is for the insolence of entrepreneurs who are involved in the protection of persons and property in the vicinity of the government. But in order to satisfy our concerns, we are not right, and our fears are baseless, it would be good to have years back to investigate the circumstances under which certain subcontractors in the contract with MÁV Zrt. worked the hired slaves who were replaced every three months, eviscerated to the extreme. It would be nice to know if the government is planning a comprehensive NAV or foreman investigation in the affected area, just to show that everything I'm talking about is opposition malice. Please reassure the railway guards and everyone through them: there is no need to move public money from the railway area to a point where the nocical box is no longer the landing unit, but the railway wagon. Once again, it's a shame and a shame that no one from the government is here, even though they knew exactly what I was going to talk about. We should also listen to these hardworking little people's perfectly legitimate complaints. Thank you for your attention. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2016-04-26-291	Thank you very much. Member László Lukács, representative of Jobbik, is:. Here we are. An evaluation of the Health Debate Day. Here you go.
u2016-04-26-292	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Today, the health debate took place as a marathon debate, and we held it in Parliament, and Jobbik initiated it because we thought it was particularly important to talk about health care and to discuss issues in health care that serve to advance the whole issue, Hungarian health care. I am in a lucky position, because I sat through the debate and participated in it all along, so it may be justified that I give my opinion which I do not want to hide under a bushel. I believe that we have managed to kill the entire health system here today, and that health care, in political terms and as a political subject, has died a terrible torture death here in Parliament, because healthcare had to be included in a debate that was actually a XX. It was a 100th-century debate. The parties, whether left-wing or right-wing parties, simply couldn't find each other's voice, talked about each other, and all the important problems, all the important measures that we have failed to discuss, I think, which we really should count on, and whose solutions will not be postponed. That is why Jobbik launched the real national consultation in 2016 to assess these problems, so that, if not with politicians, but with the profession and with the people, it can consult them, discuss them, and, based on their opinion, make a decision and give the government an alternative that can be used to govern them from opposition and force their will to the government. At the Health Discussion Day, we felt rather that the 21st edition of the 21st edition of the European Parliament and of the Council had been adopted by the European Parliament and the Council. Thus, instead of a 20th century debate, an XX. We are stuck in a century debate, which shows that the whole health system is still in a socialist framework, and it simply cannot break out of this socialist curse. If you will, in the debate, the mountains were in labor and they gave birth to mice. In practice, we did not achieve much, we heard left-wing and anticipated left-wing panels, beyond the defined fidesz panels, and perhaps the dual division in which right-wing left-wing forces communicated did not help the progress of the debate on health. While one bigotan said to the other that he was in favour of paying health care, the other was just making mistakes, often not even standing on a completely rational basis in the eyes of the government. It is also important to see that if we cannot discuss taboo themes among ourselves, whether here in Parliament, within the framework of the legislative framework, where we are all in fact responsible as 199 Members for what laws we are making, that is to say, to regulate health, so if we cannot discuss certain taboos in here, then there are not only twenty calm years in health, in which there are political consensus, but twenty war years coming, which I am not sure that health will be able to endure. Thus, the parties would have acted correctly, and the parties would have acted correctly if they had matured in a mature manner, XXI. They would have behaved in this debate in a manner worthy of the parties of the century, and they would have addressed, for example, issues such as how we would finance health care. [[23.30]] Whose sources? Where do taxpayers put their money in there? Are we going to cover healthcare through taxes or contributions or additional payments? Will the social security model we're building on collapse or not? Do we need as many hospitals or institutions as we talk about or maintain? We couldn't even discuss these things. We couldn't even discuss whether there were enough doctors in the country, or whether we even knew how many doctors there were in the country. How many health professionals do we have? Because the government doesn't know, apparently, but neither does the opposition. And if we do not know our resources, then we are unable to assess how we can farm and what we can build on in the future. I believe that today, on health debate day, it seems that policy has failed to get into legislation, that policy is not only out of legislation, but also seems to be out of law, but also out of public opinion. Unfortunately, it is not possible to know about the sitting day that very few media coverage has been based on either bans or simply lack of interest or lack of interest in the opinion of the Speaker of the House. While the number of news was low compared to the debate day on education, and if society has the same attitude to health as the media has shown, then here in the coming periods, unless in the image of a Jobbik government, there will be no change in health care. We did not touch on the question of the hospital in Budapest, we did not care how much wage development is expected, if at all. I believe that the debate day ended practically not with half a success, but without success. Thank you very much. [[It's a rare applause in the ranks of the Jobbik.]]
u2016-04-26-293	Thank you very much. Congressman Tibor Bana is next to take part in the post- Agenda speech:, Let the opinion of the students also be expressed in the National Assembly. Report to Jobbik's Youth Department. On the results of his campaign, part eight. Here.
u2016-04-26-294	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Or I could say my fellow factions sitting here. Jobbik will continue its true national consultation on health and corruption, in addition to education, intensively and bravely. We are conducting a dialogue with young high school students, with the results of this, i.e. the opinions, experiences and insights that have been received from us, and we are trying to present them to you from week to week in the speeches. Allow me, at the 8th part of this series of speeches, to honour once again our promise to young people that we will bring their voices into Parliament, and I am glad that they will hear this important speech from another faction on the pulpit. Tom, who had already shared his thoughts with us, wrote:. I write a second time because I thought of a few things. First of all, I want to thank you for getting a piece of my last message. What I forgot to write is that we don't have to reduce the curriculum in any way, we just have to make it more qualitative. Students won't learn the little things they don't learn right now. If it were more quality and interesting, maybe not just a few would study regularly. Several of my teachers have told me, but I also notice that Hungarian education is not about providing the best education compared to the student's abilities, but about averaging students. They have introduced the regulation that no one can be placed in a separate group. Education may be of quality for the weak, but those who want to move forward, because they may want to graduate well from that subject, are not very good for them. It's not necessarily a matter of interrupting the clock, it's a question of some who didn't always get the best teacher in grade school, and he's behind. It could be an extra year, and they'll catch up in time, and then they'll go with the people who'll be studying in 9th grade. In addition, I would have an idea for high schools to take over the university style and students to choose their classes, of course, with mandatory hours and maximum hours. This could be a solution to the examination of the language, because, for example, we have few language classes in the vocational secondary school.., Obviously, we could argue with what has been said here in part, but I think that, for example, here, in terms of the language exam and in relation to what Tamás has said here, apart from the university style, because this may be a question, I think we can talk about perfectly eligible and good points. I'll refer you back to his opinion later. The following letter came from Csanád, who wrote:. I really hope that if you want to pass the compulsory language exam for university admissions, then our dear good government does not think that in the lower voice it will pay 30,000 forints plus the price of the private teacher from everyone's pockets, because you only have very little chance of putting down a secondary school. Besides, I think it would be a good idea for school to last until the end of June, but those extra two weeks could be filed during the year. We still have two months left. For example, March, April, and May should not be taught virtually without stopping, because those few days of Easter break are not enough. The question of language learning has therefore been raised again, which is an extremely important problem. Anikó, a Kazinczy-prize winner, wrote to us that our leaflet for him on the street did not have all his thoughts, so he explained his views by e-mail. I quote: I am an 18-year-old girl and I graduate in May next year. In this academic year we were told that we can no longer use chronology in history, we cannot choose reasoning in Hungarian, and a lot more. Back in the day, when I applied here in ninth grade, I knew what was waiting for me. And today, even our teachers don't know what's in store for next year. I only go to a simple high school, but I have an acquaintance in ninth grade, where he's been three times ten, twice nine hours a week. I know that adults who work from 8:00 to 6:00, if any, spend more time at work than we do at school, but it's different because what they have to do there, they already know. They don't have to learn new knowledge every hour from which they'll be called to account the next day. I used to be a very good math student, but then I ended up in a teacher's class for two years who should have retired a long time ago. Poor thing couldn't offer what a younger teacher should. In two years, I've completely regressed. In this academic year, I took math for one of my special subjects, so I'm learning this on a raised level, but every hour I ask myself what I'm doing there. While the basic math guys are one, we're buying two books this year, which means we can't practice anything, so half the group is failing. But there's nothing we can do if we don't want to go in this summer to finish the stuff, we have to move on. They expect us to always give 100 percent, but it's impossible. I remember the junior year, when our days were still carefree, there was never any pressure on us, everyone went to a special occupation, sports, music, drawing, and so forth. Now my brother's in third grade and he's in pain. He started first class with six hours every day. I remember I had a day in fifth grade when I had four hours. They're driven to death, stressed out so they don't mess things up. A few months ago, they got a fourth grade catch-up math book. Why? They learn things in third grade that we bought a year or two later. I could tell you the problems for hours, but I think it's coming down enough from my lines that the whole system is rotting from the inside. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Allow me to finish my speech with the thoughts of the already quoted Tamás:. Most politicians do not know that it is worth dealing with young people, even though we will vote one day. Yes, Honourable Parliament, and this vote will also be a judgment over the last few years and decades. Thank you very much for your attention. [[It's a rare applause in the ranks of the Jobbik.]]
u2016-04-26-295	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speeches after the agenda. Thank you for your work. Parliament will resume its session at 9 a.m. I'm closing the meeting, saying good night to all of you. [[Meeting ended at 23:37 p.m.]] Nándor Gúr s. k.
