u2016-10-03-0	[[The people in this room stand up and greet the voters' community. When the chairman of the meeting takes his seat, the people in the room will sit down.]] Dear House, The 7th day of the autumn session of the Parliament is hereby opened. I would like to inform you that László Földi and István Ikotity will be taking part in this meeting. Welcome to all those who are monitoring our work. Dear Parliament, We will start our work today with speeches before the agenda, then we will have questions and then we will have an immediate Question and Answer Hour, and we will end the Parliament's session with speeches after the agenda. Ladies and gentlemen, Prime Minister Viktor Orbán has applied for a speech before the agenda today. I give you the floor.
u2016-10-03-1	Your Honour, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, Yesterday we held a referendum in Hungary [[Intervention from the opposition: Invalid!]] It is appropriate for me to evaluate the outcome of the referendum on behalf of the government. My assessment is that the referendum has reached its goal. [[Moore in the ranks of the MSZP. Dr. Gergely Bárándy: Invalid and ineffective!]] Hungary has decided. The aim was to clear the air, to clarify what Hungarians want about mass migration. 3 282 723 people rejected it. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] Dear House, Organised and managed migration resettlement has been taking place in Europe for years. In your alarming reality, however, [[Interviews from the ranks of the MSZP.]] [[Interviews from the ranks of the MSZP.]] It was published in Hungary in 2015 when hundreds of thousands of illegal immigrants were illegal, violently and intimidatingly (interviews from the ranks of the MSZP).), the Hungarian authorities and the Hungarian legislation were ignored in Hungary. [[Intervention from the opposition: 300,000 euros!]] The Hungarian government then decided to use all its power to restore legal order and protect its citizens. We've built a three-way defense system: a physical, legal and armed defense system. Without saving power, money and energy, we set up a fence at the Serbian-Hungarian and Croatian-Hungarian borders with record speed. [[Interviews from the ranks of the MSZP.]] We have tightened our laws, especially our criminal laws. [[Dr. Gergely Bárándy: On our recommendation!]] and we have created new protection laws. Our soldiers and police officers have been directed to the southern border section. [[Dr. Gergely Bárándy intervenes.]] the soldiers and the police have done exemplary work, and they have carried out their duties and defended the security of the people there, defending Hungary's constitutional order and defending Hungary's sovereignty, also reflecting the attacks of organized criminals attacking them at Röszke. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] [[Dr. Gergely Bárándy intervenes.]] By doing exemplary work, the soldiers and police have fulfilled their duty and defended the security of the people there, defending Hungary's constitutional order and defending Hungary's sovereignty, also reflecting the attacks of organized criminals attacking them at Röszké. (Applause in the ranks of the governing parties. ) It's a thank-you and a compliment. (Dr. Gergely Bárándy interrupts.) The government and I both assumed that the Hungarian people approved and supported our efforts to protect the country. From the south, however, the migrant threat continues to persist, and, in our assessment, the migrant-migrant pressure on Europe and, thus, Hungary's southern borders will persist for many years and at times increase as a shock. Therefore, we decided to build new physical border barriers, and within the framework of the police, we set up permanent border hunting units, increased police numbers by 3,000, and created a permanent border surveillance system. In other words, we are now able to contain the threat from the south, even in the magnitude of a million. Dear House, However, Hungary was caught in a bite trap. In Brussels, it was decided that illegal immigrants who had so far been admitted to the European Union will be allocated to the Member States under a quota system, even if the Member State disagrees. This decision in Brussels, which we consider to be undemocratic and illegal, has been challenged in court. Nevertheless, Brussels has moved on. The European Commission has adopted and presented to the European Parliament a new proposal for the distribution of migrants, which should be applied by all Member States in the future with binding force, without a cap, i.e. up to a million-dollar scale. This is the Brussels mouthpiece. We can't defend ourselves to the south if we are sent from the west to our necks by those who have entered the territory of the European Union on a non-Hungarian border section. What should Hungary do? Will you fight Brussels? Or should we accept that we no longer decide who we want to live with and who we don't? That was the question. It is also obvious that if we oppose it, we will find ourselves at the heart of serious European debates and may have unpleasant consequences, such as in the form of attacks on Hungary and revenge and blackmail from the Commission. [[Dr. Gergely Bárándy: That's what you do.]] That assumption has been confirmed. Ladies and Gentlemen, We need to be clear that Brussels bureaucrats and the European left are pro-immigration. It qualifies migrants as refugees, even though they go through five safe countries to Germany. The arrival of migrants in Europe is considered right and useful by the European Left. This is also represented by the Hungarian left - DK and its leader openly, the MSZP is ashamed and sly. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties. Dr. Gergely Bárándy: What a liar you are!]] In the 2014 elections [[Dr. Gergely Bárándy: You lie impeccably!]] no party has said or said anything about this issue. Therefore, after the parliamentary election could not decide the issue of immigration, Hungary's position could not be derived from the result of the election, so there was only one honest solution: let the Hungarians decide what they want. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties. Interview from the ranks of the MSZP: It's decided!]] Who should decide who can stay, who can live in Hungary? [[Interviews from the ranks of the MSZP: It's decided!]] Who should decide on this: Brussels or Budapest? That was the question that had to be decided in the referendum. The decision determines the fate of Hungary for many years. We have a different future, Hungary will be different if we accept it and it is different if we fight. [[11.20]] The referendum clarified the Hungarians' position. Hungary has decided. Ninety-eight percent of the participants, if I count invalid transmitters, 92 percent said that the right to make a decision belongs to Budapest, and we must fight for this right; this is the decision of the referendum. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] The referendum has reached its goal [[Bangóné Borbély Ildikó: He has not reached!]] because from now on we represent the will of the Hungarian government and not its head, not even the will of the Hungarian MPs sitting here in Brussels, but the will of 3 million almost 300 thousand Hungarians. [[Szabó Timea: What about the rest? Interviews from the ranks of the MSZP. Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] We represent the will of 3 million 300,000 people in Brussels. [[Szabó Timea: Not the rest of them?]] Is it too much or not enough? [[Interview from the lines of the MSZP: Few.]] When we decided to enter the European Union, the votes of 3 million 50,000 people were enough to enter; now 3 million 300 thousand people said no, so now the votes of a few thousand more people should be enough to decide the question of the migrant quota. [[Noise in opposition benches. Intercoms from the ranks of the MSZP and the independents.]] Ladies and Gentlemen, With due modesty and restraint, but I must say that yesterday the Hungarians made history. [[István Szávay: That's right!]] If it is true that history is written by the winners, Hungary won yesterday with the overwhelming victory of the genders. [[Szabó Timea: Invalid! Invalid! Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] We have also made history because, for the first time in the European Union and so far only in Hungary, voters have been asked about the issue on which, in my opinion, the existence of the European Union may depend. [[Agnes Kunhalmi: panicking!]] Ladies and Gentlemen, In 2003 we voted in favour of membership of the European Union by voting in favour of 3 million Hungarian voters. We took on the idea of a common European future, opened up our markets, put in what we had to do together, and did our homework. [[Szabó Timea: It was a valid referendum in 2003.]] From 2010, since we had good governance, we have basically become a model state: [[Noise, interruptions from the ranks of the MSZP: Forget it! Defiance in Jobbik's ranks.]] we respect the fiscal discipline required by Brussels, we have incorporated the European legal order and the European values summarised in the Charter of Fundamental Rights into our Fundamental Law, we have respected our obligations laid down in international treaties, including the obligation to protect the Schengen external border, and we have harmonised our interests with the interests of the other Member States. We therefore have every right to hear our voices on the crucial common European issues. Ladies and Gentlemen, Three million 300,000 people agreed to the Fidesz and the Christian Democratic People's Party's solution. [[Szabó Timea: The rest is not. Sándor Szabó: To travel by helicopter. You even asked for a driver!]] In the history of Hungarian democracy, including parliamentary elections, no party or party association has ever received such support since 1990. [[Intercoms from the ranks of the MSZP and the independents. Dr. Gergely Bárándy: Are you a national case or a Fidesz case? Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] One million more Hungarian voters voted for confidence in the government's position than in 2014 we were once again authorised to govern. [[Noise in opposition benches. Dr. Gergely Bárándy: Wasn't it a national matter? So you lied? Intercoms from the ranks of the MSZP and the independents.]] I would also like to thank you for this trust. This decision and this support are binding. [[Uproar, loud noise in the ranks of MSZP and independents.]] I see - but even if I didn't see it, I would hear that some people are trying to underestimate, underestimate, and ignore the will of 3 million 300 thousand people. [[Szabó Timea: The National Election Committee evaluated it!]] With sufficient gentleness, I would like to tell you that we will not allow these 3 million 300 thousand men to be deceived by you. [[Szabó Timea: We won't let the rest of them fool us! Dr. Gergely Bárándy: No threats, that's the case.]] I will not allow the opinion of these 3 million 300,000 people to be ignored by you. In my opinion, no honest Hungarian elected Member can allow this will to be overwritten by anyone. Ladies and Gentlemen, In public law terms, yesterday's referendum does not oblige the Hungarian Parliament to legislate. [[Intercoms from the ranks of the MSZP and the independents.]] The question is whether we want to enforce the people's decision yesterday. [[Intercoms from the ruling parties: Yes.]] If so, we can do this. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] The Christian Democratic People's Party and Fidesz consider it a right, honest and necessary step to give public authority to the unanimous will of the people, which is why I am initiating the amendment of the Fundamental Law in the spirit of the referendum. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties. Noise in opposition benches. Intercoms from the ranks of the MSZP and the independents.]] Ladies and Gentlemen, We need to be prepared for more struggles. Now the ball is bouncing in the middle of Brussels. The question is whether Brussels, a democratic community of European states, can force its will on a Member State where more than 90 percent of participants oppose it [[Interview from the lines of the MSZP: 98.]] and whether we Hungarian politicians are able to enforce the decision of the people on the European stage. Dear House, Your Honour, Mr. President. We are not alone in rejecting the compulsory introduction of quotas. We know very well that a large proportion of European citizens do not support Brussels' proposal for an otherwise inhumane solution to a compulsory quota. [[Szabó Timea: There is no compulsory import quota!]] In the last year and a half, we have already managed to reshape European policy. [[Interviews from the ranks of the MSZP: Oh!]] Let's remember what we got on our heads when we started building the southern border lock. Today, more people in Europe argue for the protection of borders than support immigration. I know, I hear you, ladies and gentlemen, that we have a little faith here. [[Szabó Timea: We say the opinion of the people.]] But you can see that Hungary is able to win battles in Brussels, and we are able to protect our culture, the security of our everyday lives and our economic achievements. [[Ágnes Kunhalmi: In the meantime, you shut down the country!]] Finally, dear House, we have a difficult and difficult journey ahead of us. [[Interview from the ranks of the MSZP: Yes!]] The political elite, whose supporters, including their Hungarian supporters, are interested in unlimited immigration and resettlement, have a strong set of tools: loud, anti-democratic and violent. [[Interviews from the ranks of the MSZP.]] It is our duty, ladies and gentlemen, to enforce the clear will of the Hungarians yesterday, in this counterwind as well. It's our duty, and that's what we're going to do. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Long-lasting, great applause in the ranks of the governing parties.]]
u2016-10-03-2	Thank you, Prime Minister, for your speech and, at the same time, for not being able to live, I did not want to exercise my seat leaders' rights to try to limit the disrespectful conduct of the representatives of the MSZP, which was not directed against you, Prime Minister, but against this House and through them, against the electorate. [[Interviews from the ranks of the MSZP: No! Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] [[11.30]] I am thinking of the uncivilised and constant yelling that my fellow MSZP Members are now hearing. I now give the floor to the representatives of the factions. As you have seen, the Prime Minister's speech did not exceed 20 minutes, and it follows that the representatives of the political groups can respond to the Prime Minister's speech in 5-5 minutes. First, I give the floor to Congressman Bertalan Tóth, head of the MSZP faction, and also the opportunity to apologize to all of us. Here you go.
u2016-10-03-3	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I listened with interest to the Prime Minister trying to reinterpret what happened yesterday, to make a clear failure a victory. It has also become very clear to me that you, Prime Minister, watched a very different film last night than the referendum. I'd like to tell you that the result is 5:3. The majority of voters, 5 million people yesterday, decided not to participate in the meaningless, expensive and lying charade of Fidesz. They saw through the situation, they didn't let themselves be misled. A sober majority has won, and the voters are always right, or, as I might say, did you know? - the voters are always right. But don't think, ladies and gentlemen, that those who stayed home or who voted invalid would not be concerned about Hungary's future and security. But in addition to the refugee crisis, they worry about their health, worry about their children's education, and worry about their livelihood. Prime Minister, you said that on the basis of a referendum - an invalid referendum - the Fundamental Law must be amended. But why should I? Five million people said no to Fidesz and Jobbik's politics yesterday. They knew precisely that the referendum was not a solution, nor was the amendment of the basic law. If you see the solution in the amendment of the basic law, it was completely unnecessary to spend 17 billion forints of public money on this. You admitted that the referendum was unnecessary, that fear and hatred, threats and blackmail were unnecessary. Ladies and gentlemen, That is why we are taking the initiative to set up the public money, the ad hoc committee to investigate the public funds spent on the campaign, and to look at what fidesz buddy and friend's pockets have been enriched by this completely irresponsible and unreasonable spending of money. But here's another thing, Prime Minister: you should not be thinking about amending the Fundamental Law and hiding behind the Parliament, you should be doing your job. It is the duty of the government to guarantee the safety of the Hungarian people and maintain public order. Today, it is the government and your duty and right to decide on the refugee issue, on the applications, to decide who will be allowed into the country and who will not. In recent years, you've had everything you need, money, steeds, guns. You asked for CTU, you got it, you asked for special security rules, you got it, you asked for a lot of public money, you got it. The amendment of the basic law doesn't add anything to this, it's an act of the same as the referendum, so for our part we're not involved. People need safety and not fundamental law change. Prime Minister! We have said that the refugee crisis can only be a joint solution at European level, which the Hungarian government must help; not to create tension, but to help. As a responsible opposition party, the MSZP is aware that the refugee crisis requires sobriety, professionalism, humanity and responsible responses, and therefore today the MSZP faction presents the Parliament's programme of responsibility and security, which rests on three pillars: through NATO cooperation, common external border protection must be established and strengthened, public order and public security guaranteed, and asylum seekers must be evaluated in decent conditions. I believe that the implementation of this will bring us ahead of any fundamental law amendment that is not good for anything. Prime Minister! Keeping the quota issue on the agenda is in your best interest and the Union has already removed it. It is time to speak frankly about the refugee crisis, but let us also talk about the domestic problems that really affect Hungary, education, health care, unspeakable corruption, competitiveness problems, low wages, and the indecent and brazen enrichment of pro-government politicians and their families. Prime Minister! Don't run away, deal with the real problems. Thank you very much.
u2016-10-03-4	As the next speaker, I give the floor to President Vona. Here you go, Congressman.
u2016-10-03-5	Thank you very much. Mr. Prime Minister, It took you six months, 15 billion forints wasted and a failed referendum to find out again that Jobbik is right about the amendment of the Fundamental Law, because we suggested this to you six months ago. Now we have heard your prognosis about the referendum, but I think it will tell you more than anything about your true feelings - whether you really live this in your heart as a success or failure - last night when you evaluated the results of the referendum at a press conference, you were afraid to let the press in, because you didn't want to face the questions of the press, and you dared just say your speech in front of some internal applause. You can still say to the left, Prime Minister, that they say such ugly things about the failure of the referendum because they support migration and support Brussels, but you cannot say that to me, Prime Minister, and you cannot tell Jobbik. Jobbik has rejected migration from the beginning and also rejects quota. That is precisely why I am angry with you, and that is precisely why I demand your resignation, because on this very serious issue for us, you have pushed Hungary into a dangerous and failing situation, and you have lost this battle. You played a gamble with Hungary, you couldn't command your internal political ego, and you lost this fight. You have done this despite several warnings, Prime Minister, you cannot say that we have not told you countless times that we should rather choose the amendment of the basic law, because it is free and a safe solution, but you have done so. I told them not to do it in May. Look back, Prime Minister, at your reactions and the reactions of your fellow parties to our own proposal, when Jobbik tried to argue from common sense to amend the basic law instead of holding a referendum. Look back at your reactions, Prime Minister. They were arrogant, arrogant, laughing, giggling. Aren't you ashamed now, Prime Minister, to come forward after six months, after spending 15 billion forints with your proposal to amend the basic law after a failed referendum? ! Since last night, Prime Minister, you've been a loser politician. You've lost this fight with the quota. On the European Union scene, your credibility, prestige and strength have been severely reduced. You will no longer be taken seriously by the bureaucrats in Brussels in the fight against quota, they will say that here is Viktor Orbán, who has not been able to make a valid referendum against quotas even in his own country. This will be your epic adjective, Prime Minister, without any illusions or illusions, Brussels will exploit your irresponsibleness and your fault harshly against Hungary. Do you realize what you've done, Prime Minister? Have you given this any real thought? Because that speech didn't say any sense or self-criticism. Do you realize how much damage you've done to your own country's irresponsibleness? At the moment, after the referendum, Hungary's position in the fight against quotas is worse than before the referendum - we got here. You gave Brussels a hand in hand that you will live with, because that is all Brussels will be interested in, and you will not be interested in Árpád Habony's communication proposal, Prime Minister. The only thing Brussels will be interested in is that you brought this country into an invalid referendum. That is why I say that you must resign, Prime Minister, as David Cameron did, and that it is customary to do so in European politics. But I know you're not going to resign, I can see it on your face, but I think that at least one I'm sorry would come out after such a failed referendum. In addition, this referendum not only sends a message to you at international level, Prime Minister, but also at internal political level, because your campaign was completely chaotic, and you were confused. The peak was when Lajos Kósa couldn't tell us what was at stake in the referendum for the third time yesterday. [[Defiance in the ranks of Jobbik and MSZP.]] You, Prime Minister, fled in the last week of the campaign, didn't dare take public action. Hungary experienced the shame that, while 80-90 percent of society rejected the quota, the number of people who appeared and voted no was less than 40 percent or less, i.e. more than half of the Hungarian people who refused quotas remained at home. And do you know why you stayed home, Prime Minister? Because of you. These people are sending you a message, telling you that you've had enough of this rough, violent threat campaign, enough of your waste of public money, your prodigy. That's what they said! [[11.40]] And they told you, Prime Minister, that even though they refuse quotas, they fear migration, they fear terrorism, they fear multiculturalism, but they are even more afraid of your overpowering. These people sent you this message. I think it's pointing in the same direction that you're going without foreign policy weapons, and that's that you're going to have to resign. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]] A new era must start, and Hungary can no longer have every single problem, the real problems being swept under the carpet of migration. You can no longer escape to refugee policy, Prime Minister, and Jobbik will do everything in its power to protect Hungary from migration. [[Deterioration in the pro-government benches. The president's ringing the bell.]] But let's also talk about other important problems for people. And the first step in this must be to resign, Prime Minister. Thank you for your attention. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2016-10-03-6	I am obliged to address a point of order to Mrs Schmuck Erzsébet, the head of the LMP faction, in what capacity Mr Bernadett Szél wishes to speak. [[Erzsébet Schmuck: Co-President.]] Sorry, the fact that the LMP is a co-chairman is an irrelevant issue from the point of view of Parliament. Please turn on Mrs. Schmuck's mic, because I don't understand.
u2016-10-03-7	He would like to comment as co-chairman. [[It's grumpy.]]
u2016-10-03-8	Mrs. Fraternity Manager, the house rules do not know this title, to my deep regret.
u2016-10-03-9	Then he's a sub-group leader.
u2016-10-03-10	And when did you like to let us know in writing that you have elected Congresswoman as deputy leader of the faction?
u2016-10-03-11	In a short time. [[Defiance.]]
u2016-10-03-12	Then if you'd like to speak, I'll give you the floor. Unfortunately, I would be able to give the floor in this debate to Mrs Bernadett Szél in a manner contrary to house rules. So, would you like to speak, Madam Leader? [[For signal:]] Thank you very much. This is Congressman Lajos Kósa, head of the Fidesz faction. [[It's grumpy.]]
u2016-10-03-13	Mr. President. Dear House, Dear fellow Members, Last night, some things were clearly revealed to everyone who watched the outcome of the referendum. [[Intercoms from the ranks of MSZP and Jobbik.]] The first: the Hungarian Prime Minister's call has never been agreed with so many since the change of regime. Three million to three hundred thousand people - no such political unity has ever lined up behind the Hungarian Prime Minister. [[Moore from the ranks of the MSZP.]] It is of particular importance that this is for the protection of Hungary and the Hungarian nation. [[Dr. Gergely Bárándy: Now is Fidesz a supportive or a national matter?]] The person who, after having achieved an unprecedented political unity behind the Hungarian Prime Minister, demands the resignation of the Hungarian Prime Minister, on the one hand, has nothing to do with politics and, on the other hand, encourages the Prime Minister to abandon those voters, 3 million 300 thousand, who agreed with him to defend the country and authorized him to defend Hungary by all means against the migration wave. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]] It is particularly remarkable that his resignation is demanded by a politician who recently said that the last excuse for mankind is Muslim religion. [[Interview from Fidesz: That's right.]] Whose money, on whose advice did he say: Despite the fact that Hungary is a country with a thousand years of Christian roots and a Christian culture, should it proclaim Islam to Hungary's savior? There have been such ones, Imre Thököly and others in Hungary, who would otherwise have joined forces against Christianity with the Turks. This attitude is not unknown. Yesterday, it was also revealed to everyone that in order to protect the country, the opposition could not count on the country. [[Interventions on the opposition side. Intercom from the pro-government benches: That's right.]] Their own party political aspect was more important to them than what many of their constituents, the opposition voters, understood that the protection of Hungary, the protection of Hungary, the Hungarian values, the Hungarian culture and the protection of Hungarian civilisation were more important than the insignificant aspect of party politics. [[Intercoms from the ranks of MSZP and Jobbik.]] This is not unknown in Hungarian history. Probably, just like the MSZP yesterday, in 1526 János Szapolyai Nagyvárad was very pleased that he did not hurry to defend the Hungarian king against the Turkish king and to support the Hungarian king. Congratulations on that. We know the Imre Thököly, we know the Johns of Szapolya. Only the country was fatally wrong with it. If Jobbik had taken what he said seriously for a moment, then the election would not have been such a result that Ozdon, where the air has been poisoned for a very long time, only 31 percent of people gave their opinions in order to protect the country. [[An uproar in the pro-government benches. Intercoms from Jobbik's ranks.]] One thing, my dear House, is quite certain. If there is no direct consequence of this referendum in public law, if 3 million 56 thousand people's opinions were enough to allow Hungary to enter the European Union, rightly so, then 3 million 284 thousand people's opinions are abundant enough to force Hungary to oppose the compulsory resettlement quota, even if the opposition is not a partner, because their own power is ahead of the country's defence. Dear House, Listen to every voter for this attitude. The fact that Hungary cannot count on the opposition for its own protection has been revealed. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-10-03-14	Dear Chief of Staff, Although house rules do not prohibit the painting of historical parallels, I am obliged to protect János Szapolyai and Imre Thököly from an unworthy comparison. [[Deterioration in the pro-government benches. Applause on the opposition side.]] Mr. Péter Harrach has the floor. [[It's grumpy.]] Mr. Péter Harrach has the floor.
u2016-10-03-15	Mr President, Prime Minister! Dear fellow Members, It is a nice moment for Parliament when the opposition applauds the leader - we have come here. [[György Sziâlágyi: It turns out that he is more educated than the leader of the faction. Dr. Zsolt Semjén: Indecent comparison.]] The referendum was about one issue, which is, however, related to another question. The question was whether we should preserve the part of our national sovereignty that we do not exercise together with the Member States. And we have to keep this, because if we lose this, we get to be dictated from the outside, we can't even decide who our neighbor is. But, of course, this issue is usually related to the migrant issue. We have to answer the simple question: the 3.2-3,3 million people involved are many or few. [[11.50]] Answers are spoken, on one side they find little, we find enough. There was a slide: the head of the MSZP fraction spoke of 5:3. [[Agnes Kunhalmi: One?]] An important slide. I ask you, the about five million people from whom we see political activity, who usually go to the election, who are interested in questions of public life, most of them - two thirds - not only went away but voted no. Where's 5:3? He doesn't want to be a member of the MSZP sympathizers. [[Dr. István Józsa: Like Mohács!]] to list the total number of people left at home? ! Then let me make one more comment: one million people have gone out more than in a two-thirds vote with the ruling parties. So if this number happens in a parliamentary election, you won't be sitting here today. Not to mention that in the municipal election, that was about the number of people left. Do we then question the legitimacy of the elected representatives? [[Dr. Gergely Bárándy: You did it!]] These questions are certainly raised. And if you'll excuse me, I'd also like to say a few words about the campaign that's been going on in the last few weeks. The pro-immigration left-wing opposition could not say anything, and now in its comments it spoke about issues that did not come into contact with the issue. Jobbik's behaviour was also peculiar, since they said that no should be voted, but they did not take any action in the campaign to do so. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties. Intercoms from the same place: That's right!]] Not to mention that if the Fundamental Law is amended, the situation is quite different if there is such a strong legitimacy as not. So this is the question of why we needed a referendum if there was going to be a fundamental amendment: because it would definitely have happened if there had been participation above the so-called validity threshold. And then one more thought: many people mention because of the little, that the validity threshold has not been met. Here are some countries in Europe in which this proportion is overwhelming and would not have been the issue of validity. [[Dr. Gergely Bárándy: You changed the law! Fidesz-KDNP proposal!]] Austria, Belgium, France, Finland, Germany, Ireland, Luxembourg. Shall I continue? But even in America. [[Szabó Timea's intervention.]] So that's not the question. The question is that a large number of Hungarian voters, 3.2-3,3 million people, have decided to defend Hungary's sovereignty. [[Szabó Timea: Invalid, invalid!]] Thank them. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2016-10-03-16	I give the floor to the Prime Minister in return.
u2016-10-03-17	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Allow me to thank the Hungarians from abroad with special respect for their large number of participation in the current referendum and for their support for the protection of Hungary in large numbers, so thank you very much to the Hungarians from across the border. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]] I understand there is a debate here about whether the referendum was won by Jobbik or the MSZP. [[Defiance in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] That's an interesting argument. That logic is the logic of losers. Winners always refer to the votes cast, and losers always refer to the ones left at home. That's the case right now. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]] So I don't even know if MSZ or Jobbik won this election. Discuss this with each other; I think that we, pro-government representatives, are not necessary for this. Ladies and Gentlemen, We have different ways of thinking about the intentions of those who remain at home, since we do not know exactly what they would have wanted. If we knew what they wanted, it would be easy for us, but we only know exactly who took part in the referendum and voted either "yes" or "no." We do not know the intentions and opinions of the others, and I therefore consider this debate to be incorrect between you, but that does not mean that you can proceed freely over the votes you have not obtained. [[Szabó Timea: Invalid, invalid!]] It is certainly an unusual argument in democracy. What I can tell you is that the only thing we know for sure is that those who stayed home said that if a decision was made, they could live with it for their part. [[There's a grumble in the ranks of the opposition.]] That's why I don't understand the intentions of the people who stayed at home, just like you do. I don't take the liberty of insulting those who have left by only qualifying those who have stayed at home as normal - because that's what you have done. [[Dr. Zsolt Semjén: That's right!]] So we don't insult the people who left. [[Dr. Zsolt Semyen: Shame!]] And unlike you, we don't insult those who didn't leave. One thing we know for sure: they did not leave because they did not want to participate in this decision, and they knew precisely that the decision would be made without them. [[Agnes Kunhalmi: They didn't let themselves be deceived.]] Just as the decision has been made, and we will act according to the express will of the citizen. When they stayed home, they knew exactly that. The only right, honest and honest attitude is not to hurt those who have gone away, even to show our appreciation; we do not insult those who have stayed at home, but to acknowledge that they did not want to participate in this decision, and we must now conduct this debate and battle without them. The question is whether we have received enough support to carry out this battle. [[It's an intervention from Jobbik's ranks.]] I can see that you have turned into football fans and are cheering for Jobbik Brussels in the Brussels-Budapest match. We've all heard this before... [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]] [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]] I must definitely consider it unusual that one of the factions of a national parliament and its leader, when a country is debating Brussels on an important and even vital issue, is cheering for Brussels, and not for Budapest, not for the Hungarian government - Horribile dictu, not for me - who are leading this battle. We regard this as unpatriotic, incorrect, and dishonest conduct. (Applause from the ranks of the governing parties. ) Of course, we know the reason for this. The first party in Hungary's history is Jobbik, which announced that he had been bought. The president of Jobbik himself announced that he had given soul to his party and that he had taken it, which means he sold it. This party has its owner, this party has its owner! We know exactly who they are. [[István Apáti: Tell me!]] And we also know that what you're saying is in financial and economic interest. You support Brussels against the Hungarian Government and want me to resign so that they can open the way for financial interests. He bought people, he took sides. [[Dóra Dúró: Butcher Lőrincek!]] That is the case, gentlemen, we know that we cannot count on you in the battle with Brussels. Ladies and Gentlemen, After all, I would also like to say something briefly about the issue of costs. I believe it is such an important issue, and the will of this 3 million 300 thousand people was so important that the Parliament can vote two or three times for this, because our existence and our lack of existence depend on the prospect of these two or three decades. So I think it's time for the soldiers [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]] oat, horses and costs must be voted, as the Hungarian Parliament has always done when it was necessary in the period prior to World War II. [[Agnes Kunhalmi: And below!]] Ladies and Gentlemen, I would just like to say that we are listening to everyone, of course we are also listening to the President of Jobbik, but it really does seem strange if, criticizing the ramblings, we should remind ourselves that only this party and its leader said - to quote precisely - that Islam is mankind's last hope. Then who's talking nonsense here, ladies and gentlemen? I would therefore like to ask Jobbik, and I would like to ask the representatives of Jobbik to grow up to the task that has been entrusted to you by the electorate. With all due respect, I'd like you to stop acting amateur and dilettant. You weren't sent here to talk halfway between the gym and the barbershop. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]] Ladies and Gentlemen, Honourable Members of the MSZP! [[Dóra Dúró: Long live the party barons!]] As soon as the better man allows me, I'd like to respond in a few sentences to what you said. [[12.00]] You are calling for a European solution. That's not surprising. [[And we don't ride helicopters!]] The fact is that the MSZP has always represented the entry into the European Union and the implementation of the Union's policy in Hungary. To our taste, it represented it without barriers, overstepping the border that would serve the interests of the country, but no one can argue that the MSZP has always been a European party, pushing for European solutions. The question now is whether Hungary's European solution on this particular issue is good, not generally, philosophically, not historically, but here and now. [[Zoltán Haughty: No questions asked!]] There is a European policy and there is a European solution. Ladies and Gentlemen, The European solution today is to allow illegal migrants into Europe. The European Union has decided to let them in. [[Ágnes Kunhalmi: There is no Hungarian solution! That's not true!]] I'd like to ask for some patience to finish my sentence. [[Agnes Kunhalmi: Here you go.]] So the European solution today is that the European Union is allowing migrants into Europe. There is only one country that protects its borders: Hungary. Through all other borders, the EU will allow migrants into the European territory. [[Agnes Kunhalmi: That's not what the V4s say anymore!]] This is the first element of the European solution. The second element is that it is said that, after everyone wants to go to Germany, Austria and Sweden, those who want to go there should be divided among all the other countries of the European Union. This is the second element of the European solution. [[Agnes Kunhalmi: No way! Interviews from the ranks of the MSZP: No way! Agnes Kunhalmi: No way! The Council didn't support it!]] In fact, the current proposal against which we voted is to make it clear for the future that no matter how many migrants arrive in the European Union, i.e. without a cap, if one Member State feels that it has come to it too much, then with a binding decision in Brussels, they must be spread out in the European Union under a mandatory quota. This is the European solution. So while I am not questioning the commitment of the MSZP in Europe, I would like to draw your attention with respect to the fact that the existing European solution, which works every day, is bad for Hungary, against the interests of Hungary. [[Dr. Gergely Bárándy: We told you a hundred times!]] provided that we agree on the starting point, i.e. that the deployment of illegal migrants to Hungary is not in Hungary's interest. This is where the monkey jumps into the water, because I think that we disagree because you believe that the introduction of illegal migrants arriving here in Hungary is not against the interests of Hungary. That's what you say. [[Grumbles and interruptions from the ranks of the MSZP: No, we don't. How many times have we told you? That's not true. You don't have to lie.]] ♪ Who thinks so ♪ [[Moore from the ranks of the MSZP.]] Those of us who think that are thinking something that is contrary to the interests of Hungary. However, I would like to highlight the debate for a moment from these slender, fickle give-and-takes, because I do not recommend that the position of the MSZP be considered frivolous, because the entire European left thinks what the MSZP thinks. He thinks migration is good. You think it's useful, you just need to manage it better. [[Dr. Gergely Bárándy: Who thinks? Ágnes Kunhalmi: Mihály Varga said it was good, your minister!]]
u2016-10-03-18	Congresswoman, please control yourself. If it's necessary for your mental health to scream, I'll isolate a room for you. [[Defiance in the pro-government ranks.]]
u2016-10-03-19	I would also like to point out that this debate is more than just an actual political debate in the European Union. If we are talking about this with sufficient seriousness for the Hungarian Parliament, we must not forget that this is a policy that has been launched for a long time. This has not just begun; it has now become visible. A lot of people mate their start for different dates. I would like to remind you that, with great success in 2004, Kofi Annan gave a speech in which he said what European immigration policy should be like, in addition to the huge support of the European left. He came from the United Nations and said at the plenary session of the European Parliament, and he also put forward arguments, which are more high-quality than we can hear from time to time. [[Interruption from the ranks of the MSZP.]] [[Interruption from the ranks of the MSZP.]] He said that one of the biggest trials facing the enlarged European Union will be how to address the challenge of immigration in the coming decades. There can be no doubt, he said, that European societies need immigration. Europeans live longer and have fewer children. Kofi Annan went on to say that without immigration, jobs would remain vacant, services would be cancelled, the economy would fall, society would stagnate. Immigration alone, he said, will not solve these problems, but it is an essential part of any solution. And then he ended up like this. In the first century, migrants need Europe, but Europe also needs migrants. This is today (intercom from the lines of the MSZP. ) the European Left's spiritual standing. This is a serious position, a serious position supported by arguments. I would just like to tell you that today's European solution, what you call it, is to let them in and spread them out, is to achieve this. [[Zoltán Grimlock: What about the bond?]] a European left-wing programme. [[Noise.]] A European left-wing programme. There's only one problem with it. [[Zoltán Haughty: Merkel and Juncker on the right!]] There's only one problem with it, that it doesn't serve our interests for us Hungarians. We do not want to be the country that the European Left will make Europe if he acts as Kofi Annan has advised them. [[Szabó Timea: He is Ghanaian, not European!]] That's all, that's the whole point. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]] So, ladies and gentlemen, I suggest we play with clean cards. Jobbik announced that nothing was expensive, that he had one purpose - as ordered - the Prime Minister and the government must be overthrown, even if they are cheering Brussels in return. [[Grumbles and interrogations from Jobbik's ranks: No, it's not true! Lajos Kepli: Medic!]] They're supporting Brussels. It's the truth! [[There's a grumble from Jobbik's ranks.]] The MSZP also announced - I understood - that it supports the European left-wing solution, which is based on admission and distribution. [[Moore from the ranks of the MSZP.]] And the Christian Democrats and Fidesz said that if this is the European solution, then we do not need this European solution. [[Zoltán Grimlock: Juncker and Merkel are not left-wing!]] but we do not want to go against Europe, but we want to change European policy [[Zoltán Gőgös: Europe's majority management is right-wing!]] because we do not want immigration policy for Hungary against Europe, but we want immigration policy for Hungary as a basis for European policy. [[Zoltán Grimlock: That's why I need the bond!]] That's the thing. The Hungarian voters could see everything. That's what they decided. I owe you one thing here to make it clear to you that despite the better gym and hairdresser advocacy, despite the added power of the European Left, I have only one thing to do. [[Lajos Kepli: Cancel!]] I will try to enforce the decision of Hungarian voters, and I will do everything in my power to ensure that it succeeds. [[Zoltán Grimlock: What about the bonds?]] You can take me however you want. [[Szabó Timea: Invalid!]] do not underestimate the power of the Hungarian governing party. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A big round of applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-10-03-20	Dear Parliament, We are now taking the floor before the announced agenda. Gábor Vona, the deputy leader of the Jobbik faction, will be the first to say what he has to say after the referendum. Here you go. [[Several congressmen are about to leave the room. Intercoms from Jobbik's ranks: Do not flee!]]
u2016-10-03-21	Dear Parliament, Mr President, I see that I have quite ruffled Prime Minister with my comment and that he can't even digest my visit to the gym, but since he was so personal, Prime Minister, I would be happy to invite him to the gym as well. [[Interviews from Jobbik: He needs them!]] I would like to thank the Hungarian citizens who took part in the referendum, especially those who went and voted 'no', including the better people who, in this situation, knew their duty and went to the referendum to cast their vote and vote 'no'. [[Dr. István Hiller, vice-president of the Parliament, takes the chair.]] But if the debate on what is at stake in this referendum has already started, then let us talk about what is at stake in this referendum. We have already known that the proportion of genders in Hungary is much higher than the proportion of yeses, and even overwhelmingly high. In order to find out this, we shouldn't have held a referendum, we shouldn't have thrown 15 billion forints out the window, and we could have calmly amended the Fundamental Law six months ago, but you didn't want that, did you? The only real stake in this referendum was whether it would be valid legally or not, whether we could put a valid referendum behind the social will or not. It didn't work, it didn't work. This referendum has become invalid, and your irresponsibleness, and believe me, case study is your face, case study is your outrage, and I see that you, while you were imitating the celebration yesterday, feel in your heart that this was a nasty failure. Unfortunately, this referendum is invalid, but don't try to blame it on people, don't try to blame it on Jobbik. This is your responsibility, your responsible defeat and Viktor Orbán's defeat. What we have been saying for months, and you did not want to believe it, has happened that you have brought Fidesz Hungary into an irresponsible gamble under the leadership of Viktor Orbán, and in this gamble you have suffered a nasty defeat against Brussels. You didn't listen to us. Now let's ask the question: Was it worth it? Was this all worth it? Was it worth it that you didn't listen to us six months ago, and we didn't change the Fundamental Law at the time, and you're bringing it up now, and in the meantime, as I say again, we threw away 15 billion forints? [[12.10]] How much could it have been translated into, right? And here we are with an invalid, unsuccessful referendum [[Zoltán Tessely: You didn't come!]] And you, unfortunately, I can see that your conscience is tormenting you, but you have been handed over to Brussels. And do you know what a fair solution would be, by the way, a decent, man-like solution in this situation, or a solution worthy of ladies? It would be, my fellow Members, if they took responsibility. But you can't even do that! They can't take responsibility for their own actions! They are unable to admit, admit, that on this very important, very serious issue, the issue determining the future of our grandchildren, Hungary has been brought into a nasty failure. Just take responsibility. [[Zoltán Tessely: Who wasn't there?]] You're pointing at everyone here, making accusations. But let us ask the question: which parliamentary group did not support the granting of voting rights to Hungarian citizens who migrated to the West? Was it the Jobbik or you? [[An intervention from Jobbik's ranks: That's right!]] It was you. If you hadn't had an internal political interest, if you hadn't wanted these people out of the nation's community for your own party political purpose, this referendum would have been valid. But you didn't dare do that because you're afraid of these people, and you've tried to exclude them from this national community. Shame on you! [[Let's hear it for Jobbik. An intervention from Jobbik's ranks: That's right! A statement from the Fidesz: Shame on you!]] They were communicating all over the place. He really had no idea the man who followed the statements of Fidesz, in what respect the referendum is now important to you. Once again, the Prime Minister said that he wanted a hundred percent; then, in the last days, he fled, did not take up public debate, did not take up a public public forum, and said that no matter how the referendum progressed. He wrote on the website of one of the political scientists, and I liked the example: the Prime Minister is like his child, that no matter how the game turns out, he always has to win. That's about it, only little kids grow out of it after a while. Looks like you guys haven't grown out of this yet. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: Three million, three hundred thousand votes!]] Orbán did not have a debate, and once again, he fled from the public forums; in essence, Viktor Orbán fled from the sinking ship as early as the last week. He's got a habit of quitting you back in 2006, so you should know. He fled in 2006 in an armored car, ten years ago. Now he's done the same thing in the last run of the campaign. Don't let them blame this on us. This is your failure and Viktor Orbán's failure! And then they're trying to bring up Ozd here? I'm sorry. Do you know why the participation in Oz was low? Because the Fidesz has collapsed, that's why! Because Ozden has no Fidesz, and Ozdon the Fidesz couldn't mobilize. Feel free to look at the voting rates of the other better towns, either above the national average or above the national average. Unfortunately, you still have a lot of work to do to make Fidesz a serious party again. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: Things only work with Fides, thank you very much.]] So once again, this is your responsibility, your loss, and I am sure that the beginning of a new political time was yesterday, and you will no longer be able to escape to refugee policy. We must finally get off the Arab magic carpet and come down from the clouds to the Hungarian reality, where health care needs to be fixed, education needs to be fixed, the corruption of party barons should be eliminated, and Hungarian wages should finally be raised, because it is in vain to protect Hungary from immigration if the Hungarian people migrate. Thank you for your attention. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2016-10-03-22	Thank you very much. Welcome. We'll get back to work. On behalf of the government, Mr. Csaba Dömötör will respond. Here you go.
u2016-10-03-23	Mr President, Allow me to react a little more calmly. As a result of this frustration, we can easily ask ourselves whether you were even able to vote yesterday. That's a fair question. [[There are constant interruptions from Jobbik's ranks. Dr. Csaba Gyüre: We weren't on a helicopter! Tamás Sneider: Look! Track it down. György Szilágyi intervenes.]] Mr President, It's very sad...
u2016-10-03-24	Stop, Mr. Secretary. According to the house rules, as strange as it is, only one representative or member of the government can speak at once. This is State Secretary Dömötör at the moment. You talk, preferably the rest of you listen. Here you go.
u2016-10-03-25	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr President, It is extremely sad that Jobbik, while claiming to be a national party, practically joined the group with the left by doing nothing to win the sexes. However, about so many people participated in yesterday's referendum [[A statement from Jobbik: You can't even read it!]] As in the EU membership reference, 98 percent, that is, ninety-eight percent of the opinion representatives, said no to the resettlement plans. We are very sorry that you saw only and only the possibility of political wrinkling in the referendum, especially if we know that you are very well aware that if Brussels beats the quota package, it will not be possible to correct the consequences later. It is extremely talkative that in any political advertising film by Jobbik there is no encouragement that citizens should vote no. It's also extremely typical... [[An uproar in Jobbik's ranks. Intercoms from Jobbik: Yes, you can. Don't lie to me.]] It's not gonna happen. It is also extremely typical that Jobbik's president made it clear in an ATV interview that no campaign manager was even appointed. [[An uproar in Jobbik's ranks.]] To approach it from another point of view: the President of Jobbik in the referendum campaign has dealt with tabloids more than anything else, rather than encouraging the participation of a referendum... [[István Szávay: Do you read it blindfolded? Dóra Dúró: The Toni! István Apáti: What about the Little Count?]] Instead of encouraging him to take part in a referendum, he presented his eyebrows, praised his own upper body, true, in a banged-up state, and also sutured tattoos, all on ATV. We'd like to see what the Rogue Army has to say about this. [[Defiance in the ranks of Fidesz. György Szilágyi: Ask them to be brave. István Szávay: The President of Jobbik has dealt with the referendum more than the Prime Minister! István Apáti: Neither hear nor see Dömötör. Defiance in Jobbik's ranks.]] Dear House, Mr. President. Yesterday you compared the referendum to a simple poll of opinion, thus violating three million citizens who had exercised their democratic rights, participated in the referendum, said their opinion, and said, by 98 percent, no to the emergency resettlement plans in Brussels. This demeaning, this behaviour in László Kovács will not be forgotten by Hungarian citizens. With what they've been doing over the last few months, they've turned their backs on their own voters with this party politics bonkers. By the way, I'll keep it quietly, this is not the first time that the President of Jobbik has acted contrary to the interests of the country in a national matter. We remember well that you did not participate, for example, in the referendum on dual citizenship. Now, this is the national party Jobbik; cuteness is a lot, and protection of the country's interests is zero. Be a political analyst from SZDSZ who understands why a national party is doing this. There must be good reason why they did this in the referendum campaign, as they know very well who asked you to do so. [[György Szilágyi: Who? Gábor Vona: Voldemort! Defiance in Jobbik's ranks.]] Mr President, Finally, I would like to tell you that there is... [[György Szilágyi:...youth organization! The president's ringing the bell.]] Mr President, There are enough left-wing parties in Parliament that do not represent the interests of the country - do not want to join them! Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-10-03-26	Dear Parliament, Before the agenda, Mr Nándor Gúr, representative of the MSZP, spoke with the title "On Current Affairs." Here you go.
u2016-10-03-27	Thank you very much, Mr. President. We can paddle on calmer waters, but some thoughts are still worth yesterday. So, you know, fellow Members, nullity is nullity and validity. That's how simple this story is. Yesterday there was a referendum, it was invalid. This is a failure. So nullity is nullity, failure is failure, lies are lies. You know, you know that concept. I also have to add that rogueness is also a scoundrel. [[Dr. Pál Völner: You know!]] I just want to ask you if this country is going to be able to vote by helicopter. [[Defiance in the ranks of the MSZP.]] You know, 17,000 million forints were applauded. Seventeen thousand million forints, which would be good for everyone in this country to know what, who and how. It is not random that the Hungarian Socialist Party's initiative is to set up a committee on public funds. But if we look seriously into this story, we also need to see that if there is anything today about lying claims that are used to be talked about, introductions and other things, then there is one thing, you know: the settlement policy. You know the concept, you've learned it, haven't you? Landing policy: through which offshore or offshore companies to their friends and God only knows who, who everyone else is, was made 80-100-1000 million forints. Do you know how much this money is? The total budget of the Hungarian rescue services for three years. [[Dr. Bence of Rétvári: tok-tok?]] Yeah, that's 32 billion forints. That's 100 billion forints. That's what my friends make, and I'm telling you again, God only knows who everyone else is. Now, that should be changed, and the shame is that, after yesterday's referendum decision, today, within the framework of the committee meeting, it is being voted out that this settlement policy should be forgotten and terminated. But to talk about some topicality that you should be dealing with, the people, the people's skills and problems, from pensioners, because it's the 1st of the world retirement day, or the 7th of the world decent work day, that these kinds of issues that directly touch people would be dealt with. Of course, they do, but they're just different than they should be. In the case of retired people, what have they been doing lately? Men's access to the 40-year eligibility period was cancelled through the Constitutional Court because they were afraid of the referendum. Because they were afraid of the referendum! [[12.20]] When pensioners talk about what economic growth there is, do they see a 0.9 percent increase in pension? Do you want to impose on your children all the burdens in the future that are related to the provision of pensioners, while these people have paid dues for 40 to 45 years if they have been able to work? What are you talking about? What are you doing? They lie about it, they fool people, and they don't act about them, and they don't act about them. But it's the same with regard to the world of work. When I said that it is a world day of decent work now on 7th, we should address the type of issues that people should be dealt with in an appropriate, normal, legal framework, so that these people can work under the right working conditions, so that the representation systems in these workplaces can work and serve the interests of the people; that the negotiations that have been kicked back into the tripartite system, which you have destroyed, will be restored. They would have a thousand things to do, and to provide people with wages and salaries that are the basis for a decent living. That's what we should be dealing with, not stealing money from them. Don't steal the money from them! Not imposing extra contributions on the minimum wage and everything else, making employers impossible, putting them in a position to the wall that they no longer have any other option but to pull more skin off workers. So, one word as a hundred: there are thousands of questions that you should be dealing with, not explaining the lie, not the failed results. Let's focus on the people, on the interests of the people. Therefore, do your best not to try to hide their lies and dishonest activities. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2016-10-03-28	Thank you very much. I'm asking who wants to respond on behalf of the government. [[For signal:]] Secretary of State Dömör, please.
u2016-10-03-29	Honourable Congressman, It got me thinking about the costs. [[Lajos Korózs: Was there more?]] He mentioned the costs. It is interesting that, when it comes to dual citizenship, the left hand made detailed calculations of how much double citizenship would cost a Hungarian citizen. Then they lied that it would cost everyone 170,000 forints of dual citizenship. In hindsight, we know that this was a big lie. If the costs are really at your heart, then why not now make similar calculations regarding the immigration crisis? For example, why have they denied that the Brussels quota package also includes a penalty of HUF 78 million per person if a Member State does not wish to participate in the compulsory distribution? Why did they deny it? [[Nándor Gúr: What are you talking about? What are you talking about? First, account for the money you're using. Lajos Korózs: You stole all the money! You bought a helicopter! The president's ringing the bell.]] Honourable Congressman, Yesterday, 98 percent of the Hungarian voters said that there is no way to tell from Brussels who to install in Hungary. More than three million people sent messages, and it is an important fact that about the same number of people participated in the referendum as in the referendum on EU membership, which also means [[Lajos Korózs: Then the Transcarpathians, Transylvanians, Vojvodina and the Croatians did not vote! You're full of shit. Sit down. Nándor Gúr: What do you want? Lead Hungary out of the EU?]] that if 3 million votes were enough to enter the European Union, 3 million votes would be enough to say no to forced resettlement. Yesterday's results also proved that the MSZP is on the wrong side; it is on the wrong side, against the Hungarians' will [[The president's ringing the bell.]] And now it will be decided whether the MSZP will maintain this condition. For months, you've been talking about immigration, first denying the dangers of migration, then attacking the border closure decision. [[Nándor Gúr: That's a lie! That's not true. We submitted a proposal for a parliamentary resolution, which you then used!]] Then President Hiller said that this was the best solution, while Brussels kept making it clear that it was not in its right mind to withdraw the quota package. [[Lajos Korózs: Viktor has signed all documents!]] You have claimed that there is no such proposal, so you deliberately deceived the Hungarians. On the other hand, the Socialist Party acted very consciously in Brussels when it came to engagement in Brussels. A few days ago, socialist Members voted in favour of a resolution by the European Parliament which very much confirms the quota package. [[Nándor Gúr: Talk about what Orbán has signed. Talk about what they said in the Council of Europe.]] There is a mandatory distribution with no upper limit, a fine, and there is also a question of facilitating family reunifications, which would further increase the number of residents. You voted for this in the European Parliament. So, when it comes to action, you do carry a pro-immigration line. [[Nándor Gúr: Ridiculous! It's pathetic.]] and support the forced resettlement, and it has now been revealed that you have been drilling the referendum all along because, while you were afraid of the opinion of the people, you wanted to pursue a pro-immigration policy here and, in your heart, you wanted to win the yeses. [[Lajos Korózs: You failed!]] Honourable Congressman, A few days ago, your party president found that the MSZP was ready to say, and I quote, either in any way or in Parliament's vote, that he did not hold the quotas to solve the problem. That's what your party president said. These words are completely in conflict with the Socialist Party's previous actions. At the same time, I would like to point out that you will have the opportunity to reject the forced resettlement plans in Brussels, because the government will soon bring the outcome of the referendum into legal form, and what follows is that you will have every opportunity to finally stand up for Hungary and hear the opinion of the Hungarians. This is also the case because 98 percent, or 98 percent, of the participants said hard yesterday that they did not want immigration policy in Brussels. This is a loud wake-up call, not only for Brussels bureaucrats, but also for the Hungarian left as a whole. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches. Nándor Gúr: Read the Fundamental Law! The referendum is invalid! Why don't people's opinions interest you? You didn't say a goddamn word about it! Doesn't that matter?]]
u2016-10-03-30	Dear Parliament, Mr András Aradszki, representative of the KDNP, applied for a speech before the agenda: "The Moral Power of the Referendum." Here you go.
u2016-10-03-31	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. [[Lajos Korózs: Behold the man!]] Mr President, Dear House, Yesterday we witnessed an event in Hungary that was not only a celebration of democracy and all true democrats, because we could express our opinion directly on a threat that fundamentally affects all of us and future generations, but also the embodiment of a fundamentally Christian Democratic idea. For Christianity does not just emphasize the importance of solidarity when, building on the command of love, it requires the provision of assistance to those in need as a moral duty. In addition, the principle of subsidiarity is equally important and also the principle of love and recognition of communities and nations, which respect them and respect their dignity. The two go together. They cannot be separated, as the socialists, the liberals, the extremists and the left This is what they do while lyingly referring to Christian values against us. [[István Apáti: Wind and left!]] The subsidiarity principle states that matters and problems that can be dealt with and resolved locally should not be excluded from local competence. If this does not work, then and only then does it have the right to exercise solidarity. Please allow me to refer here to the teaching of the Catholic Church, specifically to the speech by Pope Francis in the European Parliament on 25 November 2014:, The motto of the European Parliament is unity in diversity. But unity does not mean uniforming politics, economy, culture or thinking. All true unity consists of the richness of various components. Just as in the family, in the European Union, we must accept each other's traditions, history and roots, and get rid of manipulation and phobias. The human person should be the focus; let individuals and peoples express themselves freely and creatively, in the spirit of solidarity and subsidiarity. Today, keeping the democracy of European peoples alive poses a challenge for everyone. Multinational interests which weaken democracy and transform it into uniforming financial power systems that serve the forces behind it must not be allowed. Globalizing ideas that dilute reality must be avoided. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. According to the principle of subsidiarity, therefore, Hungarians have the right to choose to defend themselves and, not to mention, to take the lead in Brussels today, which is prone to collective suicide; and to decide what they want to do with their traditions, culture, faith and what kind of ethnic groups they want to allow into their country. In this commitment, we are also supported by Pope Francis, who said two years ago: "There is general fatigue and ageing in Europe: Grandma-Europe is no longer fertile and not lively. The great ideas that inspired Europe seem to have lost their attractiveness, and the bureaucratic administration of the institutions has taken their place. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. [[12.30]] The responsible reading of this highlights the socialists, liberals and the extremists and left-wings And the lying and hypocritical references of their media lodges in which they wish to teach us about Christianity. They do not quote the revelations of the Holy Father that point to the essence of Christendom, thereby deliberately misleading, manipulating their believers and audiences. However, we cannot expect anything else from those whose roots and only a centurion's past are full of antichristianism, masonry, atheism, and nihilism. They think of unified global leadership, dictatorial systems, and for them it does not matter whether they are led by the Soviet Union or the European Union. For them Moscow or Brussels is going on and on, just where to take the orders that are being carried out by the primitive means of political treason, demagogy, populism. I believe that they are sore about the overwhelming result of yesterday's subsidiary referendum, according to which the opinion that Hungary itself should decide who, when and how it accepts them is the majority. It is certainly also unpleasant that Hungary will be followed by more and more people in Europe by means of self-determination and the restoration of sovereignty, the nations that still have the vitality, vitality and health. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] self-defense reflex. Therefore, please pay attention to what democracy gave Hungary yesterday for the 3 million 200,000 people [[The president's ringing again.]] not with a vote. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2016-10-03-32	On behalf of the government, Secretary of State Bence Rétvári responds. Here you go.
u2016-10-03-33	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, I think we can all thank the 3.3 million people who went to the polls yesterday and gave the government's answer to the question asked by the government: he refused to take part of Hungary's right to self-determination and to take it away without a legal basis. He said no to changing Europe's population and composition very quickly to a very large extent. He said no to increasing the threat of terrorism in Europe and Hungary. He said no to ruin public safety. He said no to starting a period of uncertainty and likely economic downturn for Europe by developing parallel societies in larger cities rather than a stable and growth-based vision for Europe as we would have liked when we entered the European Union on 1 May 2004. And more people said no to this wrong direction yesterday than they voted for EU accession in the referendum before 1 May 2004. So no one can raise a question of legitimacy. Whoever has such a suggestion, who claims that there is no legitimacy in the series of legislative acts to which the Parliament is starting, obviously only wants to serve the interests of Brussels. After all, how is it possible for them to have the legitimate idea that some of them, sitting there in Brussels, will invent in a non-chosen body and create as a mandatory distribution mechanism? This is legitimate for them, but the fact that 3 million 300 thousand people contradict this in Hungary is not legitimate. [[Agnes Kunhalmi: Should we quit?]] And that the Hungarian government has the opinion of 3 million 300 thousand people [[Agnes Kunhalmi: Should we leave the Union?]] He listens and starts lawmaking, and it's not legitimate for them. Of course, the government could have accepted such laws at any time here in Parliament, but we thought that we should first ask people, and whoever comes and gives their opinion should show us the direction in which direction the government should go. This direction was clearly designated by the electorate at 92 percent. It is unacceptable for us to consider these 3 million 300,000 people to be inferior to those of them. [[Agnes Kunhalmi: You've been deceived! I've been deceived! Poster campaign...]] What some people in Brussels expect of them. It can be seen where each person derives his own legitimacy, where he would like to receive support for his own power: from 3 million 300 thousand people or, rather, from a few leaders in Brussels. But this also exposed the opposition parties by 2018, all of which question the legitimacy of yesterday's mandate, as they are preparing to abolish these laws from 2018 on if they come to government, if such an order comes from Brussels. [[Agnes Kunhalmi: You steal the money from Brussels...]] And we know that the socialists like to meet the needs of Brussels. In 2008, there was a demand to take away the 13th month's pension. [[Intercoms from the benches of LMP and MSZP.]] They stood up with a roll call, and here they all voted to take the 13th month's pension. Now, of course, they say why pensions cannot be increased to a greater extent. Of course, it didn't hurt them to lower the value of pensions. The next order came from Brussels in 2008. [[Zoltán Grimlock: You're sick!]] At the time, they did not choose the Hungarian electorate, not the doctors, not the nurses, not the police, not the people working in the public sector, but they also took a month's wages from them. At the time, this 8 percent wage reduction was important to them, and this order in Brussels was carried out briefly and quickly. It is a distorted concept of democracy that if someone is not derived from the referendum, not from the people, but from another power center outside the borders of the country. However, I think it is important to note, in response to the Member's speech, that we are giving this to all the people who need real help, to whom we really need to help. I would also like to quote the words of Cardinal Pietro Parolin, Pope Francis, at the UN General Assembly on 19 September in New York, where, on the one hand, he called the concerns of certain societies justified in relation to the present situation, and then distinguished genuine refugees in need of protection and migrants whose rights must be respected - obviously, they also have responsibilities. So he used the same rhetoric that we used in Hungary a year and a half ago: there are refugees and others, immigrants. And let me quote another important sentence that the Secretary of State of the Holy See said in the United Nations. All people have the right to live in their homeland, and the Holy See calls on the international community to work on the causes of the migration phenomenon. It called for cooperation between nations and international organisations, as well as humanitarian organisations, and also offered the effective involvement of religious-based organisations. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] So he said nothing but what we say: this problem, this situation, must be dealt with in the homeland. Thank you so much for listening. [[Applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2016-10-03-34	Dear Parliament, Member Ákos Hadházy, representative of the LMP, applied for a speech before the agenda:. What does the result of the referendum say? It's an address. Congressman, please.
u2016-10-03-35	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, Statistics are a very nice science, numbers can explain a lot of things, failure can be a success. I believe that the MPs are currently looking at a number where the participation was least. According to the press, the person in his district receives the silk cord - I think that is very possible, by the way. However, I have good news for them: the smallest participation was not in Hungary, but in England, Germany, Western Europe. Of the hundreds of thousands of Hungarians working in Western Europe, 11 thousand registered themselves. This means that there was about 3 percent participation. This shows very nicely the absurdity of the Hungarian electoral system. Technically, hundreds of thousands of people's votes are being blocked, for no one can seriously expect London to vote in one single place for everyone who lives in England. However, if we look at the results, the referendum has failed, we do not know how much. For the percentage of participation, you should also know what percentage was entitled to participate. However, if we know that Hungarian citizens who are established abroad, if registered in 2014, have been registered for ten years, we also know that unfortunately there is death among these people. According to mortality statistics, 3 000 people will die each year, so about 6,000 fewer people could vote. So we do not know exactly how invalid the referendum was, but that it was invalid, that is for sure. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári's constant intervention.]] It was invalid because it was uninteresting. It is of no interest, because we knew that neither with such results nor with such results will the problem of refugee crisis be resolved for Europe, nor the tragedy of refugees, nor the tragedy of the countries left behind. We now know that it was of no interest, because the Prime Minister didn't really think that there would be any consequences. We know that the constitutional amendment was filed either way. However, there is a very big problem with that. The Constitution is no longer a granite-solid thing, but the Constitution is a salt-cake-like, almost monthly-bound thing. And it is very feared that so far the Hungarian Prime Minister has been despised in Brussels because of his increasingly populist and hectic policies, but it is very feared that they will laugh at him after that when he says that I have brought you a salt joint, which we have just modified. Apart from the lack of interest in this referendum, it was, of course, extremely harmful. It was extremely harmful because it helped terrorists to live in fear in countries where they do their dirty things. [[12.40]] This fear has been multiplied and strengthened by a billion-dollar campaign, and, of course, by the legitimate concern raised by the problems caused by the refugee issue. These have also been enhanced in some people almost to hysteria. A responsible politician doesn't do this, he doesn't increase fear, he makes proposals for solutions, but it's missing for now, and of course this referendum couldn't have done that. This campaign is going to be in the history books, so if you're dreaming of being in the history books, it's gonna be in the history books. This has been the dirtiest fear campaign of many decades. It is also harmful because 20 billion forints are gone; 20 billion forints is 200,000 times 100 thousand; 200,000 Hungarian citizens could have been given 100,000 forints of learning and education support, for example. And, of course, this campaign was harmful, because it was successful in successfully diverting attention from problems that are as dangerous in Hungary and are at least as much of a problem as the refugee crisis. Successfully, partly successfully, attention has been shifted to, for example, the systematic, systematic, government-supported theft of EU money. Everything shows that they're not telling the truth when they answer a case that, yeah, it really happened - they don't usually contradict my affairs - it happened, but it's because of the socialists, and for a very long time, we couldn't do anything else. We see that in the new cycle since 2015, everything continues in the same way, only multiplied even more. We will continue to deal with the national flexibility plan. Today, in the national flexibility plan, companies are being given money to share these stories. Social cooperatives continue to be quite amazingly systemic [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: Systematic.]] They are created, obviously only with the intent of fraud, just like in Lord Voldemort's case. Thank you very much. [[Dr. Wind Bernadett applauds.]]
u2016-10-03-36	Thank you. Secretary of State Dömör, please.
u2016-10-03-37	Honourable Congressman, On the question of terrorists: there are terrorists in Europe now, not because there is a referendum campaign in Hungary, but because they are consciously exploiting the uncontrolled nature of immigration. This is also demonstrated by the fact that when there was no referendum in Hungary, the terrorist Abdeslam tried to recruit partners in Hungary for days. [[Intercoms from the opposition benches, including Dr. Wind Bernadett: How could he do it next to TEK?]] These facts cannot be taken away. By the way, I regret that your party ignores the opinion of 3.3 million Hungarian citizens. These people clearly said that Brussels should not impose on us the resettlement plans. These people had a clear opinion, but not the same LMP. Unfortunately, you have joined with your political smearing before the referendum, who have done everything they can to wrinkle the referendum. The 98 percent overwhelming majority of genders are a snap response to these efforts. But while you may have been engaged in internal party battles, there were LMPs who fought very hard to introduce quotas. [[Dr. Wind Bernadett: We didn't ask about the LMP.]] Their MEP Tamás Meszerics, who worked for many other places, was very hard on this subject. Allow me to remind you of his words: The LMP has no other way of imagining a solution to the crisis than by introducing a mandatory quota system. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. [[Dr. Wind Bernadett's intervention.]] Other than that, he said that it is impossible not to include some burden in the European solution, and Hungary will be forced to do so. This was the position of the MEP of the LMP. It's a clear point, and that's what you're saying that's irrelevant. I don't understand. The question is, then, that if the MEP of the LMP is clearly aware that there is a resettlement plan in Brussels and is even campaigning hard to make something of it, then why have you back home smeared this issue. [[Dr. Wind Bernadett: We didn't rub it.]] It would have been much more honest if they had openly admitted to supporting the resettlement. He would have been more honest, even if he hadn't served the country's interests. [[Dr. Wind Bernadett: We're looking for the government's opinion.]] Honourable Congressman, The result of yesterday's referendum is binding. He has a duty to the government and a duty to all parties. Since the government will soon include in a public-law robe what is to be done in the referendum, this is also a good opportunity for LMP to correct its position so far: if there really can be a different policy [[Dr. Wind Bernadett: Young but adore, go!]] then take into account the number on the scoreboard: 98 percent. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-10-03-38	Dear Parliament, Member Gergely Gulyás, representative of Fidesz, has applied for a speech before the agenda:. Here you go.
u2016-10-03-39	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, It is clear that today all political forces and factions try to interpret yesterday as their own success. Consider this a blessing of democracy [[Lajos Korózs: Helicopter!]] But let's not forget the original question. The original question was how we could prevent the European Union's idea of a mandatory resettlement quota without a maximum limit from being binding on Hungary, so that this decision would take effect in the European Union. [[Interviews from the ranks of the MSZP.]] There are clearly different positions here. The Hungarian Socialist Party pretends not to be able to read or to have no representatives in the European Parliament. Although there are no doubt few Members, those who are there do not doubt their abilities, we know that they can read, and they also support these quota ideas. So the Hungarian Socialist Party is aware that today the official proposal of the European Commission remains that the European Union should adopt, without a ceiling, an allocation mechanism that has already been adopted once, by way of the Heads of State or Government, for the allocation of 160,000 people. In this sense, however, the Hungarian Socialist Party has a tradition of building its policy on a lie. [[Interviews from the ranks of the MSZP.]] But we thought that with the break-up of the Party and the demise of the Democratic Coalition, these traditions were weakened and we were concerned to see it when we had to listen enthusiastically to its obvious rebuttal. So we can continue to say that there is a proposal for a quota proposed by the European Commission, adopted by the European Commission, on the European Parliament's table, which aims to ensure that the distribution mechanism is implemented without a cap. If we agree - and if I understand correctly, the Socialist Party has reached the point that, if there is such a proposal, they are opposed to it. [[Interviews from the ranks of the MSZP.]] - So, if we agree that the adoption of this proposal is contrary to the interests of the country, then here is the opportunity: now that the result of the referendum is clear and clear, it does not constitute a legal obligation to the Parliament, in Hungarian, because of the participation of less than 50 percent, it leaves the possibility for Members to make a free decision, this is the opportunity for all parties and factions to support the legislative proposal to be tabled by the government. In the case of Jobbik, if I understand correctly, there was no question that this proposal was rejected. [[There was no intervention from Jobbik's ranks.]] We have also heard many times about the costs of this referendum. [[Interviews from the lines of the MSZP: Horribilis. It's a lot.]] And if we are talking about the costs of the referendum, of course, everything can be considered a lot and a little, but I would like to recommend a figure to my fellow Members. [[There are constant interruptions from the lines of the MSZP. The president's ringing the bell.]] Last year, almost a million migrants arrived in Germany. For almost a million people, there may be refugees, migrants, and there are some of them who have come with unfair intentions, but Germany is planning to spend EUR 93 billion on integrating this almost one million between 2016 and 2020. This is the total Hungarian GDP. It is in Hungary's clear interest to avoid such a situation. We believe that the Hungarian Government has continued to be right from the beginning, and this has been proven: we can move forward only by controlling borders, respecting the Schengen Convention and renegotiating the Dublin Convention, but as long as it is in force, in compliance with it. We believe that if it is true that all parties want to avoid enforcing quotas without ceilings in the European Union, then here in the Hungarian Parliament it is possible to prevent this. The votes of 3.3 million people are of great help. 3.3 million people are supported by many or few; of course, if the opposition looks at the validity of the referendum, then participation was not enough. But if we look at either the results of the elections or the polls that are favourable to the opposition, there is no opinion poll today that would determine the camp of either MSZP or Jobbik to the same extent as one third of this electoral class. You do not have a third of the number of voters who, in line with the government's position yesterday, supported the rejection of mandatory quotas without a ceiling. So I think that this electoral will should be respected. This referendum was also useful to Jobbik in one respect, so it was not revealed, or received much publicity in the news, that although Gábor Vona campaigned twice in Jászkiséren and Jászszentandrás, the mayor nominated or supported by Fidesz, and the candidates supported by Jobbik and assisted by Gábor Vona twice in his personal presence won bronze medals. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-10-03-40	Thank you very much. Secretary of State Dömör, please. [[12.50]]
u2016-10-03-41	Dear House, Honourable Congressman, Allow me to respond briefly to your speech. In Hungary, although we think many things about political issues, from time to time there are points of agreement between the Hungarian people. That's what happened yesterday. Yesterday, millions of people expressed their opinions, and their will points in the same direction. On behalf of the Government, we would also like to thank all those who have exercised their democratic rights independently of party political convictions, participated in the referendum and expressed their views. Nine out of ten people today think that we need to stand up for ourselves in Hungary, we need to stand up for it, so that only we can decide on the fundamental issues that determine our lives. Most of the Hungarians, 98 percent of them, said loudly that we were the only ones who could decide who we wanted to live with. They also said that it was impossible to circumvent nation states by stealth legislation. Their message also means that Hungarians want a stronger Europe, a Europe in which Hungary is strong, and which can also protect its communities and culture. And the Hungarians also want a Europe, more precisely a European Union, which is able to withdraw a proposal that is wrong and does not serve the interests of the people who live here. Since yesterday's referendum was initiated by the government, the Cabinet considers the result binding on itself. This also means putting people's decisions in public robes. The government will soon do so. Dear House, The Hungarian people gave a clear opinion, but the Brussels emergency resettlement plan is still on the table, and the EU leaders have made it clear in recent days that, if it is up to them, they will speed up its implementation. Therefore, the debate on the quota package continues, but the government is now strengthened by the support of millions of people. The question is whether Brussels can ignore the voice of these millions. If democratic principles really matter, you can't do it. One thing is certain: the government will try to enforce the Hungarians' will and Brussels will permanently withdraw its proposal for resettlement. So the fight continues, and now every public figure, every parliamentary party, can decide whether or not to join it. We think that the 98 percent result yesterday is binding on all parties. It is time for the left and Jobbik to finally side with the Hungarians. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-10-03-42	Dear Parliament, I would like to inform you that we have reached the end of the speeches before the agenda. I now invite Mr István Ikotity to present the list of speakers after the agenda. Mr. Messenger!
u2016-10-03-43	Dear Parliament, László Varju, independent; Erzsébet Schmuck, LMP; Ikotity, István, LMP; Márton Gyöngyösi, Jobbik; István Szávay, Jobbik; Dániel Z. Kárpát, Jobbik; László Teleki, MSZP.
u2016-10-03-44	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, President János Áder sent a transcript to Parliament on the appointment of a new State Secretary. I would ask Mr László Földi to present the transcript of the President of the Republic. Mr. Messenger!
u2016-10-03-45	Mr László Kövér, President of the Parliament. Mr President, I inform the Parliament that Article 9 (four) (j) of the Fundamental Law and XLIII of 2010 on central government administrations and the status of members of the Government and State Secretarys of State. Law 52. On the basis of paragraph 2 of the Act, on the proposal of the Prime Minister, Krisztián Kecsmár was appointed State Secretary of the Ministry of Justice with effect from 1 October 2016. Budapest, 27 September 2016 Sincerely, János Áder. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry.
u2016-10-03-46	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, Allow me, on behalf of the Parliament and myself, to congratulate the Secretary of State and wish you every success in your work. Dear Parliament, Now, at 12:54 p.m., we will begin the discussion of questions and immediate questions. First, the questions. Dear Parliament, I would like to inform you that the Speaker of Parliament is the Rules of Procedure 121. Paragraph 4 (a) - Article 124 Mr Imre Horváth K/12156. He rejected his written question No 2 because the motion was not in the government's remit. Now, here's the first question. Dear Parliament, Congressman István Tukacs, representative of the MSZP, would like to ask the Minister of Human Resources: "Do you see that they have made the wrong decision on chronic classes? It's an address. Congressman, please.
u2016-10-03-47	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, After your 15 billion, invalid referendum adventure, it's time to talk a little bit about reality now. The reality in Hungary today is that bird carcasses are falling out from under the torn ceiling of the OR in Orosháza. This O.R. - this old one - must be used because the new one is useless, which was invested for billions; it must have been designed or executed by a member of the mutual crew of friends. The reality, Mr Secretary of State, today in Hungary is that cancer patients are waiting for you to make a decision on 18 cancer medicines. They've been putting this off for months. In fairness proceedings, 887 days is the most passed time when you were able to make a decision. 887 days for them is life or death. Mr Secretary of State, however, I would rather ask what is going on with the question of your fellow State Secretary for Health on the question of the places where you are going, namely the chronic classes, among the five points. He has already implemented the genre of conference governance, announcing things at conferences, not here in Parliament. Last time, he said that the reason why it's slipping away and turning them into social institutions is because they're giving the opposition an attack surface. That's not why you're slipping, Mr. Secretary. The people there are old and sick, and need care and healing at the same time. They need this care. And if you have quoted Pope Francis of Humanity, solidarity, then please truly live in your words: humanity and solidarity. Thank you for the floor, Mr President.
u2016-10-03-48	Thank you very much. Secretary Retvári responds. Here you go.
u2016-10-03-49	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Honourable Congressman, Dear House, I see that your conscience is not entirely left in the hands of yesterday's referendum and the MSZP campaign before it, which is why you are starting all your speeches with this, because it may be painful for an opposition politician that 3 million 300 thousand people stand up for this effort by the government. This is a kind of legitimacy, a kind of support that the MSZP couldn't live in its prime in 1994. No wonder they are trying to reduce this even in the context of the health speech. You were good at reducing other things, and this is the medical register. Let us not forget their last years when the amount of the Health Insurance Fund was reduced from HUF 1700 billion to 1500; from 1700 to 1500. We made up for the money you took out from the Health Insurance Fund so that it could be spent on patients, it could be used to be a medicine for patients, to care for them, to provide enough resources in hospitals, and after we replaced what you took out of it, we increased it further from 1700 in the next year's budget to over HUF 2000 billion. Unfortunately, you not only caused damage in this area, but also caused damage when 16,000 beds were closed when 6,000 workers were laid off or six hundred small patics were charged in the field of patical liberalisation. A total of HUF 650 billion is the bill that, unfortunately, has to be charged to the socialists, with which the health budget has been reduced. It is important to talk about this issue in relation to nursing, nursing and nursing homes, because in an ageing society there will be an increasing demand for services that not only provide health services, but also social services, but also combined services. That's why we're headed to the nursing homes. We work out exactly what such a nursing center would look like, and we try to build a few as soon as possible so that everyone can see why this is a modern and humane response to the challenge of an ageing society. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] [[13.00]]
u2016-10-03-50	Dear Parliament, Congressman Gábor Staudt, representative of Jobbik, wishes to ask the Prime Minister's Minister:. What does the Government intend to do to give a proper political and legal response to the KEHI reports rejected by the prosecutor for nearly HUF 50 billion in just a year and a half? It's an address. Congressman, please.
u2016-10-03-51	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Minister, You always say that we should press charges or that everyone should press charges if they experience a suspected abuse case. We have done this continuously, for several years, and we have found that the prosecutor's office is either throwing these charges back in the lead, or, after the investigation, with rather interesting justifications and blood-spinning justifications. Then the question arose, perhaps this is not just with us, so as a matter of public interest, I asked what had happened to the reports made by Kehi after 2010, more precisely how many cases were rejected by the investigating authorities and the prosecutor's office. The answer was shocking, because I received 66 cases as public interest data in the case value of nearly HUF 50 billion, supposedly in damages, and here we can actually talk about only 45 cases, since the other cases cannot be quantified for damage value. 31 of these cases involved unfaithful treatment, with a value of HUF 48 billion. This means that most of the problem is the investigation of unfaithful treatment, Minister. The question may arise, two things are possible. One is that someone doesn't do their job well, the DA's office or Kehi's. By the way, from the material sent, I see that Kehi is doing a thorough job. Then the question arises, however, that the damage may have been done, that the reports will be made, but those responsible may graduate without being cleared. Minister, if you were to answer that everyone is doing their job well, then obviously the legal situation of misrepresentation and sloppy treatment could be the problem. So I would like to ask Minister whether, in this case, if no one is responsible for this situation, they will initiate the creation of an appropriate criminal code at European level and the modification of the facts of fraudulent treatment and sloppy treatment. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2016-10-03-52	Thank you. The question will be answered by Minister János Lázár. Mr. Secretary, please.
u2016-10-03-53	Mr President, Dear fellow Member, First of all, thank you very much for your question and your interest in Kehi's work. I would like to point out that I consider that when my fellow Members of Parliament asked Kehi for information, which is the most important and prominent internal audit body of the government, they received all the necessary data and information correctly. Thank you for the fair recognition by Mr President that there is no doubt about the quality of the test materials produced by Kehi. I'm telling you this because 148 cases of Kehi criminal suspicion have been reported, 146 of these 148 cases have been ordered by the D.A.'s office to commit a probable cause. This proves that the investigation material produced by Kehi was capable of establishing a reasonable suspicion of the crime. It's an important thing in itself. It is undoubtedly a fact that in a significant part of the cases during the investigation, the prosecution refused further investigation following the order. We have complained about these refusal decisions - we can do this since 2012 - and we have filed a complaint with the prosecution. Now I've been going over how many of the rejects we've complained about. There were some things we didn't complain about, no misunderstanding, but there are a number of legal reasons for that. I have ordered a review of this, whether, in each case, when this is possible and justified, the complaint will be lodged. So after the complaint, after we filed a complaint with the D.A., we were given the opportunity to continue our investigation after our complaint. This is a completely different question from whether there will be an indictment or whether there will be a final judgment. The prosecutor's responsibility is great, he must be careful, because in all the big cases involved in accountability, judicial judgments have been made that in many cases were not the prosecution's, but the accused. The Ministry of Justice and the Public Prosecutor's Office should therefore also reflect on the amendment of the Criminal Code. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-10-03-54	Member István Ikotity, representative of the LMP, notary of the Parliament, would like to ask the Minister of Human Resources a question: "Will the schools be saved? It's an address. Here you go.
u2016-10-03-55	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, We all agree that schools play a substitute role in the Hungarian education and social systems, in many cases they are the last safety net for children with disadvantaged family backgrounds and poverty, who are unable to provide assistance from the current rigid school system, the outdated basic curriculum and the pedagogical methods used in public education. In their case, innovative and flexible solutions are needed, more attention, more individual development. With the sacrifice of hundreds of professionals, often volunteering, this was provided by schools, which offered very important services to 10,000 disadvantaged children. Last summer, we specifically asked the Ministry of Human Resources about the development of the school network. At the time, you, Secretary of State Bence Rétvári, promised us that the schools currently in operation would continue to be supported and even further expanded. Yet what is happening now is that the government is clearly destroying the network so far, providing less support, and does not provide support for the working, proven schools. Many were shocked after the tender results, which had been announced by a huge delay, and their institution could be absolutely impossible. Many of the most experienced schools were rejected without justification. The LMP sees the story as extremely sad, and schools that have worked well for years should definitely be further supported, and no source should be sorry for that. We ask the EMMI to take action as soon as possible and to further support institutions with the greatest experience, not to leave disadvantaged students without care, not to let the work of professionals go to waste for many years. Dear Secretary of State, Will these schools be saved?
u2016-10-03-56	Thank you. Secretary Bence Rétvári responds. Here.
u2016-10-03-57	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Honourable Congressman, Dear House, I think the right question would be whether they would further increase the support of schools, since he forgot to say that six years ago there were thirds of schools, and in six years we increased the number of schools threefold. 178 schools now work, and this is indeed an opportunity for thousands of children. We considered this to be important, so we increased the support of the schools, and that's why their numbers have tripled. There is no doubt that the tender that we have just launched, which was about HUF 5.3 billion, was very popular, there was a huge over-subscription, there were 1077 applications, among which 161 were formally flawed, and some withdrew, leaving a total of 909 applications on their feet. Among these, it was necessary to select 171 that the government could support. Obviously, on the one hand, we can see that the government is on a very good path, because this program is a success, and we have been able to triple the number of aids, but at the same time, thank God, more people would do this. That's why we're working on how to put out a new application this year. Although the previous proposal also took into account that those who had previously had a school-run application should have an advantage, more and more emphasis should be placed on schools that have been working well for years, in order to give them the opportunity to continue working. I hope that even this year the situation of the others will be resolved, but now we have been able to support 171 of the 1077 or 909 applications. They receive 25-30 million forints, which means stable operation. I trust that even with the Eötvös programme, in which we provide different content and methodological support to schools, we can continue to help them operate, and what has been a success story so far can continue as a success story. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-10-03-58	Thank you. Dear Parliament, MEPs Sándor Font and László Salacz, representatives of Fidesz, wish to ask the Minister of National Economy a question:. What is to be expected in Kecskemét? It's an address. Mr László Salacz has the floor. Here you go.
u2016-10-03-59	Dear Secretary of State, Mercedes-Benz Manufacturing Hungary Kft. took place in April this year. for the laying-down of a new body plant capable of producing a new generation of compact cars. We didn't have much time to wait for the next announcement, according to which another HUF 600 million worth of development will be carried out in Hungary. It is planned that the second plant will be suitable for the production of front and rear wheel cars and for the production of alternative electric models in the future. [[13.10]] The plant will consist of a body, surface and assembly plant and an industrial park. Preparations are expected to start this year, and production is expected to start by the end of the decade, creating 2,500 new jobs. Mercedes Benz also plays a significant role in strengthening domestic bus production, launching a rental program and has already been involved in dual training. I am also very pleased that Magnus Aircraft, based in Kecskemét, and Tienshan Industrial Group of China, have signed an agreement on investment of more than EUR 30 million and the establishment of a joint venture. Based on these significant investments, I ask you what is expected in Kecskemét in the future, with what results dual training will be achieved in practice. I'm looking forward to your reply. [[It's a rare round of applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-10-03-60	Thank you very much. István Lepsényi Secretary of State responds. Here.
u2016-10-03-61	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen of the Council, Kecskemét shows dynamic economic growth, for which the new investment of Mercedes Benz is a good example, the announcements of new developments. The importance of the investment lies in the applied production culture, modern working perspective and world-class technology, which creates a new world in the Hungarian industry. In addition, it is very important that successful progress lies in cooperation with regional actors. Due to investments in Kecskemét, a range of large and small enterprise cooperations, training structures used by local secondary and higher education institutions and support for local and governmental bodies were established. They all strengthen the growing economic attractiveness of the region. The concentration of industry has become noticeable. In the industry, new innovative technologies are spreading, most of which have been only used in the automotive industry, but we are increasingly seeing the emergence of modern industrial elements in a wide range of sectors highlighted by the Irinyi Plan. This requires well-trained, good quality, motivated and industrialised education. Kecskemét is the cradle and flagship of dual vocational training. The strong recovery was generated by the emergence of modern vocational training required by Mercedes. The dual training system for higher education in Kecskemét, which is already a university, has taken the same momentum, is constantly expanding, and now also includes suppliers. A good example of development, as mentioned by Mr President, is Magnus, a small company based in Kecskemét; by 2020, it will assemble and sell 1500 small aircraft with explosive engines in China. The new electric version of the plane is a world sensation. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-10-03-62	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, Congressman László Varju, an independent Member, would like to ask the Minister of National Economy a question: "Can't you see it or don't you want to see it? It's an address. Here you go.
u2016-10-03-63	Mr President, This question has been withdrawn and has not been planned for today. We wanted to submit a new one.
u2016-10-03-64	Good. Then have a seat.
u2016-10-03-65	Thank you very much.
u2016-10-03-66	Dear Parliament, Ildikó Bangóné Borbély, a representative of the MSZP, wishes to ask the Minister of Human Resources: "Do not lie and do not harm the honor of others. Or they reduce poverty with cosmetic numbers and rewritten concepts! ? It's an address. Here you go.
u2016-10-03-67	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, Last week, in my speech before the agenda, I spoke to you about what I said to you at the time. At the time, Mr Secretary of State gave a rather strange answer, as he said a few days ago that the number of disadvantaged children in kindergartens, primary schools and secondary schools had been halved in six years. I've been thinking a lot at the end of the week about how you don't see it; regardless of why you say it every day, because you can't say that there is child poverty in Hungary, how you don't see it, every day you face the situation with regard to child poverty. But at the end of the week, I think we've had a lot of answers. And we've had a shocking answer to that. 2014. On the 15th of 12th month, Antal Rogán said: "The only people who can control me are gentlemen's children. I'm a farm boy. I was born that way. At the end of this week, we faced the fact that the Minister of Propaganda, the Minister of Propaganda of the Fidesz-KDNP government, is coming from Budapest with a helicopter to Szabolcs County with a helicopter connecting Szabolcs County with a highway to Budapest. What was even more shocking was that when it came out, he started threatening me, and then he said he didn't want to expose his kids to travel at night. Mr. Secretary. Today there are families where children go to bed hungry. 42.2 percent of children under the age of 7 are now growing up in poverty in Hungary. And, you know, at the end of the week, I understood why you didn't know that. They have no idea because they're busy taking a helicopter to an event, showing up with Gucci's bag. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] And they spend taxpayers' money every day. I'd like your answer on that, Mr. Secretary. [[A rare applause in the ranks of the MSZP.]]
u2016-10-03-68	Secretary Bence Rétvári responds. Here.
u2016-10-03-69	Thank you very much for the floor. Although it was completely different from what was given, allow me to answer both questions, written and oral. We believe that the number of poor people in Hungary will decrease if more people can work, if more people earn so much, and the state does not tax it to death, from which he can support his family, so we are on the road to job creation. You have also talked about it, but you have just failed to achieve results in giving people jobs instead of aid. We were able to increase the number of employees by about half a million. Half a million more people can support their families now than before, who have children and, let's say, goes to school, and now they can count on the textbook package free of charge, and this will be the case for the whole school in the ascending system. And we spend a lot more than two and a half times as much on children's meals as you do. This is a very important guarantee of the path out of poverty, the workplace, the family tax, which leaves the family's income, and then either the taking over of schooling or catering costs, or the transfer of family support. This results in data published by Eurostat every year. You were talking about hunger. How many people have problems eating meat food at least every two days? At the end of your administration, 33 percent of the people, 3 million 268 thousand people, said that according to Eurostat data, this is a problem. Now, based on last year's survey, 2 million 293 thousand people were down by 975 thousand of these people, to whom this is a problem in catering. But I could say that the lack of proper heating of the apartment is now a problem in 450,000 fewer families. These measures are the ones that can effectively help no one to face the risk of poverty if they take up and have the opportunity to work. We believe that this is the way out of poverty, employment and low taxes. Thank you very much. [[It's a rare round of applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-10-03-70	Dear Parliament, Congresswoman Dóra Dúró, representative of Jobbik, would you like to ask the Minister of Human Resources a question:, do you think that the Anthem should be played only halfway through the Paralympics? It's an address. Here you go.
u2016-10-03-71	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, In Hungary, according to the government's decision, the medalist paralympics receive half the reward of intact athletes. All of this is explained by the sports industry, the competition is higher, there are more players in the Olympics. Although I do not see the biggest problem of parasports in this, but should, for example, reduce scissors between the system of support for preparation and remuneration, this issue is also important because of its actuality and its symbolic nature. When athletes are rewarded every four years for their results, is it only the few minutes they spend in the Olympics or the Paralympics on the field, in the pool, on the past? Is it not before the many years of resignation, talent, hard training, and endurance that we jointly bow down together, which, although not broadcast by television, is much more the result of success? So isn't that what the reward at this time is for the first time? Because in this respect, disabled athletes are no different from intact athletes. [[13.20]] You may be right when you talk about winning an Olympics more difficult than a paralympic, but these contestants are on the same path, doing the same job. Moreover, the paralympics are not the same as they were in Barcelona - since then the number of starters has increased by thousands, and the number of participating countries has doubled in 20 years. And we are only talking about reward here, but we cannot go without saying the huge differences in preparation grants. This question also says a lot about how a society, a government, is related to people with disabilities. We can also send them a message through athletes, saying that the aspects considered professional are also overwritten by humanity, solidarity, and turning to the other person. It doesn't occur to anyone, for example, that the Anthem is only half-played in the Paralympics, does it? [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] Why does it come up that they get only half the reward? I look forward to your substantive answer. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2016-10-03-72	Thank you very much. Secretary of State of Rétvár, here you go.
u2016-10-03-73	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Mr President, Dear House, As a result of the government's decision, while in 2009-2010 the disabled [[György Szilágyi: People with disabilities!]] Only 330 million forints were spent on his sport, until this year it was 587 million forints. It's not exactly double, but almost double the amount we're putting into people with disabilities's sports. [[György Szilágyi: Living with disabilities!]] Compared to what was then. I also consider it important that it is now the job of the public media to report on this and to support disabled athletes in the same way as intact athletes. I think that this has been a huge step forward in the shaping of attitudes and empathy. It was also important that the government, when it decided on the remuneration here, decided to ask the organization that used the sport of the disabled [[György Szilágyi: Living with disabilities!]] in connection with the proposal, and this department of the Hungarian Olympic Committee, the Hungarian Olympic Committee, asked what kind of support or remuneration it would require, what recognition it would require for these athletes. And then they, before 2013, said they would rather ask for more support for preparation, because the more important thing is the one that can help more people to win medals, and not to increase the value of prizes, but [[Ágnes Kunhalmi: It's only a matter of decision! Change it.]] This is where they do it. This is not unprecedented, you know the international examples very well, Congresswoman, that there are some where there is no remuneration [[Dóra Dúró: What is right?]] [[Dóra Dúró: What is right?]] in other cases (Dóra Dúró: What is right?) in Lithuania, 15 per cent, 20 per cent in Bulgaria or 50 per cent in Italy and Denmark. [[Dóra Dúró: Is this the right thing to do?]] As many European countries as there are, so many kinds of practices. We give about EUR 56,000 [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] In Greece 9800, in France 50 thousand euros, in Slovakia 22 500 euros. I think it's important. [[The president's ringing again.]] that the amounts spent on this have been greatly increased over the last six years. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties. György Szilágyi: Your answer is offensive!]]
u2016-10-03-74	With all due respect, I would like to ask the Members, Members and the Government's replying representatives to comply with the house rules, the timeframe. Dear Parliament, Member István Ikotity, representative of the LMP, notary of the National Assembly, wishes to ask the Minister of Human Resources a question: "Does the Government see the failure of the government and give the wage increase to all pre-penalty educators II.? It's an address. Here you go.
u2016-10-03-75	Thank you, Mr President, for the floor. Dear Secretary of State, When we asked this question here in Parliament two weeks ago, with a serial number I, this question was precisely about whether the 1323 educators would receive the automatic wage increase - teachers before retirement - that their 15,000 associates had received. Then Secretary Bence Rétvári replied, and we received the following answer, and I quote: At the same time, as in the information material prepared on 21 June 2016 - which was also received by schools through the Education Office - the title of the results of the roundtable negotiations so far, this coincides with the news before, on 12 May and other times - there was a part that those who launched the qualification process but did not successfully complete it, with them this increase is not automatic. In their case, what caused them to apply for the exam, but it didn't succeed, we're looking at it now, and we're looking at it now, whether it's because they themselves didn't perform well, or there was another reason behind it, and we're trying to find a fair solution for everyone. The Secretary of State, therefore, did not give us the usual condescending, problem-prone response, but the Secretary of State admitted that there is something wrong here, and that they are also trying to find a solution for everyone. Dear Secretary of State, The May Other Politics has come up with a proposal, and we have initiated a legislative amendment to allow all pre-retirement educators to move forward automatically and independently of the qualification process. Category 1 and thus automatically receive a wage increase. Two weeks ago, the Secretary of State reminded me of the agreement on the round table, which is about the same thing. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] Will the teachers be given this support? I will present this proposal to the Secretary of State. I'm waiting for your answer.
u2016-10-03-76	Thank you. Secretary Retvári responds.
u2016-10-03-77	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, As you said, this is a complex problem, as teachers could have come here in a wide variety of life situations, whether they have it or do not have it. The general principle is what you said, Congressman, so if you submit the amendment, if not, in the case of 13-15 thousand teachers, this is what you said, so it is unnecessary to submit a bill, because they are automatically re-qualified, they are now not entitled to the teacher's grade I salary, but to the teacher's grade II. Grade 1 wage; this is about 90 percent of teachers in the relevant age group. What I tried to answer you two weeks ago is a special case: those who are in the same age group, where everyone is generated, without this bill, we have already given you the possibility of passing, qualifying and resulting higher wages, but there are some who have not previously met the qualification process, or at least have started their qualification process, but have not ended up complying with the rating procedure. So it is possible that there is one among them who could not go through this or pay the fee for other, individual life or other reasons, but there is certainly one who does not have this rating because he did not meet the content requirements, has not achieved a good result in the rating. And you can't put those who didn't even begin to qualify, but for some personal reason, they didn't get it, and for those who have proved that they don't teach their children well enough. You, with this proposal, may even be able to take this, we may say that since it is easier for us to put everyone under the same roof in terms of administrative reduction, and we do not make such a distinction, but the public education round table has also discussed how this situation can be dealt with. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] and suggested the possibility of a preferential rating for the government. Thank you very much. [[It's a rare applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-10-03-78	Thank you. Dear Parliament, Congresswoman Gabriella Selmeczi and MEP József Kovács, representatives of Fidesz, would like to ask the Minister of Human Resources a question with the title "Wage increase now and then." Congressman Kovács has the floor. Here you go.
u2016-10-03-79	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Dear House, Fidesz-KDNP is committed to improving the quality of patient care, improving the working conditions and financial appreciation of health workers. Unfortunately, during the governing of the socialists, the state of health deteriorated a lot, some HUF 400 billion were taken out of health care, then more than 5,000 workers turned their backs on their profession in Hungary or abroad. The average salary of health workers has fallen to below average wage levels, wages have decreased; however, thanks to the previous Fidesz-KDNP policy, labour taxes have now decreased, wages have increased, gross average earnings have increased, salary purchasing power and wage raising programmes continue this year. Fidesz-KDNP has always dealt with the human resources issue of health workers as a priority, and in the last five years we have done everything we can to improve the situation, taking into account the country's economic performance. In 2012 and 2013, 95 thousand healthcare workers received wage development in two stages, with an additional payment of HUF 75.7 billion in two years in connection with wage development, and gross earnings in hospitals and clinics increased on average by 27 percent over two years. [[13.30]] On 1 July 2015, we created the possibility of releasing the freeze of mobile wages, thereby ensuring that the mobile wage elements of the increase in 2012-13 were adjusted to the basic wage, which took place on 1 January 2016. Dear Secretary of State, In the Gazette, wage development of employees in the health sector was published. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] I ask you, according to the government decree above, what a wage increase is now being made in health care. Thank you.
u2016-10-03-80	Mr. Secretary of State of Rétvár.
u2016-10-03-81	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, Let us say that it was not a coincidence what the socialists did in health care, that wages were not increased but reduced, that a month's wages were taken from all health workers in 2008 and that they allowed the conditions in health care to be as they were. Overall, the withdrawal that health institutions had to account for during the socialist period was estimated at HUF 650 billion, as it was a proven recipe between 1994 and 1998 in the time of the Horn government, when it was the time to "supplie and privatize." They did the same thing between 94 and 98, so they sold out most of the national wealth, even the utility service providers, and besides blackmailing SZDSZ, the socialist-liberal cabinet of the time created such a situation after 2002: depreciate healthcare institutions as much as possible, while talking about how good a privatized health system would be, and then redirect the amount of the medical cash register, which, of course, became less than HUF 200 billion in their last two years, so redirect it to private insurance companies, privatize this mass of money. This was the way of socialist-liberal governance, and there was a huge turning point here, otherwise all the referendums that were on 5 December 2004 had a health issue, but then the 2010 change of government meant this change, or the 2008 referendum, which abolished the visit fee and hospital daily allowance as a socialist proposal. From September 1st this year, doctors' wages will rise by HUF 107 thousand, and the specialists, specialists and nurses will also increase by 26,5 percent from September 1st this year. This means that the first increased wage should be paid to health workers, the Hungarian Treasury and the OEP within two days, by Wednesday. This year represents HUF 19.2 billion in surplus, and next year HUF 82.6 billion in surplus, all spent on health wage increases. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-10-03-82	Dear Parliament, Congresswoman Márta Demeter, representative of the MSZP, would like to ask the Minister of Defence:. When will the Ministry of Defence start paying compensation to former members of the Honvéd Health Fund? It's an address. Here you go.
u2016-10-03-83	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. As we have seen in recent months, unfortunately, the government has spent nearly HUF 20 billion on a poll. Dear Minister, Do you know that one-tenth of this amount, i.e. nearly HUF 2 billion, could have been compensated in the last year and a half and should have had soldiers and defense workers whose savings for health purposes, as members of the former Honvéd Health Fund, simply lost as a result of the Buda-Cash scandal? They set aside this savings from their dues. Unfortunately, since then, the Ministry of Defence has done nothing to help these victims, and no matter how many questions I have had on the subject, I have always been told that they are looking for a legal form of assistance. During the summer, the Prime Minister's Office started to pay compensation to the relevant staff of the Information Office. So this proves that there is a legal possibility, and everything from here on out is only a matter of political will. We also see that there is money for a lot of things, and unfortunately it has not been for the past year and a half, which is absolutely unacceptable. We are talking about people, soldiers and defense workers serving their country, expecting them to protect borders, expecting them to do unlimited over-services up to 365 days a year with a shortage of nearly 6,000 people. These people weren't trading, they were saving their savings for medical purposes. The state that doesn't appreciate its soldiers, policemen, risks the security of the country. So the compensation must start immediately. I am very confident that Minister can give a reassuring and positive answer for the future, as more than 20 500 people who are soldiers and defence workers are involved in the matter. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] They do deserve this commanding order in the quotes to finally get their money back for serving their country. Thank you.
u2016-10-03-84	Thank you very much. Minister István Simicskó responds. Here you go, Minister.
u2016-10-03-85	Thank you very much, Mr President, for the floor. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and As you probably know, the Honvéd Health Bank was merged into the Premium Health Bank on 31 March 2016 and accordingly the members were transferred to the cashier with succession. As far as we know, their legal status is ongoing there, and the renewal of the membership of the members crossing is also okay. It is clear from the above that the defence wallet, as it has never been before, has no direct influence on the membership status of the members of the treasury or the direct enforcement of their interests. At the same time, it is in our utmost interest that the damage caused by the Buda-Cash scandal to former members of the Honvéd Health Bank should be resolved as soon as possible, in accordance with government ideas. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and You know you're not liable for damages to the Ministry of Defence, because it wasn't the DOD's fault that all this happened. We have no responsibility for this, because it was not illegal behaviour by the Ministry of Defence, but at the same time we feel responsible. We feel responsible, and we want to help. It is important to stress that we are ready to initiate a legislative procedure in order to fully compensate the stock, for which, of course, we count on you and your constructive cooperation and support. We see the opportunity to raise the necessary budget resources at wallet level, so in the next year's budget, I see this opportunity to compensate people and soldiers in this way, although I say we have no responsibility. Obviously, we will discuss this level of compensation and possible legal and financial aspects of construction solutions with you and with all the political groups. I see that we need to find an appropriate title to ensure that compensation is implemented. Here, the construction was completely different from that of the IH, because this was an important compensation criterion for the IH. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] We didn't have that kind of responsibility. Nevertheless, we would like to help, and I say that if the law is necessary to do so, then let us also do so. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-10-03-86	Thank you. Dear Parliament, Congressman Balázs Ander, representative of Jobbik, would like to ask the Minister for National Development: "Do you think it is right to treat bus drivers as galleons? It's an address. Here you go.
u2016-10-03-87	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Almost exactly a year ago, I asked if people in air-conditioned government Audi would hear the legitimate complaints of those in the Community transport sector. Unfortunately, this and the irreplaceable public service drivers, mechanics, and other workers' cry for help proved to be pea on the wall. It is no coincidence, therefore, that the Association of Bus Transport Trade Unions is promising a one-week strike in the interests of underpaid Volan workers. Community transport in Hungary has a major role to play, and more and more people are forced to take care of their various affairs away from their homes because of school and hospital closures, office mergers and other government centering efforts. Thus, it is particularly vital for the rural population to ensure the normal functioning of the Volan companies by the state, since they cannot fly a helicopter like Antal Rogán. However, due to congestion and untenable low payments, the emigration of bus and coach drivers is continuing and therefore it is increasingly difficult to maintain smooth operation of flights. Contrary to government domination, workers' poverty is also a serious problem for Volán employees, as workers performing a highly responsible public service bring home humiliatingly low salaries, and we can also talk about a growing shortage of professionals in this area due to unblessed conditions. I therefore ask why, although economic development is not possible without well-functioning transport, there is no social cohesion, and the lifelong mobility guarantee remains an empty promise for the countryside, instead of cherishing the great parasite oligarchs, the government does not value hard-working workers in the sector and is unwilling to engage in meaningful dialogue. We agree with the extension of the opening deadline for the EU's passenger transport market, but not only the fleet should be developed, but also the wages of workers should also be fixed. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] In other words, is the government willing to raise wages? I'm looking forward to your reply. [[13.40]]
u2016-10-03-88	Thank you. Secretary of State János Fónagy responds. Here.
u2016-10-03-89	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, I agree with you that the operation, quality of service and responsible work of the Volans organised in regional transport centres have a fundamental influence on the everyday life of Hungarian society, the Hungarian economy and the Hungarian countryside. Therefore, we are in constant and regular contact with representative representatives of workers. The Association of Bus Transport Trade Unions, mentioned by you, was also assured to express their views at a personal hearing by their leaders. Honourable Congressman, The current situation, including the situation and management of the labour shortage mentioned by you, cannot and should not be simplified solely to the issue of wages. Basically, it is worth talking about predictable employment conditions and income in the case of regional transport centres. At transport centres, the worker receives a package of services, which sets out his income and benefits that his family members may benefit from. With the amendment of tax and contribution rules and effective wage increases and, not least, inflation has also increased the wages of those working there at virtually zero levels. By the way, during the 16-year wage negotiations, the Association of National Asset Management and Road Transport Enterprises, the employer, suggested that the minimum income and physical resources should be paid, but the interest representatives wanted to conclude an agreement with the same effect on all stock groups, and we took note of that. By the way, by extending the deadline you mentioned, everyone's job is safe for three years. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2016-10-03-90	Thank you. Dear Parliament, Congresswoman Erzsébet Schmuck, representative of the LMP, wishes to ask the Prime Minister's Minister's Office a question: Why are government offices unable to enforce people's right to a healthy environment? It's an address. On behalf of the Prime Minister, Mr Sándor Fazekas, Minister for Agriculture, who is responsible and competent according to the subject, will answer the question. Congresswoman, please.
u2016-10-03-91	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Minister, Our experience clearly shows that the Hungarian government and the case law are, in its current state, completely inadequate to grant its citizens the right to a healthy environment. The situation around the Falco plant in Szombathely is just one of the serious problems that LMP has been dealing with for two years. I am speaking again for the good of the locals, not because there is no other problem in the country, but because these two years have not been enough to finally find a reassuring solution. Because of Falco's air pollution and noise emissions, over 13,000 people have been suffering for many years. The impact area includes two primary schools, three kindergartens, one nursery, a family-married residential area, and a residential area with a block house. The data clearly show the truth and complaints of the locals: the frequency of respiratory diseases exceeds the national average by more than one and a half times, and according to the residents, noise pollution is unbearable. The city, the factory, the authorities have been pushing the problem among themselves for years, but the number of proceedings and disputes and lawsuits has not led to substantial progress. The Fidesz government also put a shovel on it: it provided a billion-dollar grant to the foreign-owned company without at least imposing conditions on the payment to eliminate the exceptional pollution. And instead of getting better, the situation gets even worse. Dear Minister, What guarantees can you give us that government agencies will finally function properly for their purposes, and this and similar acute cases will be resolved? Thank you in advance for your reply.
u2016-10-03-92	Thank you very much. Minister Sándor Fazekas responds. Mr. Secretary.
u2016-10-03-93	Mr President, Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and I would also like to reassure you and the honourable Parliament and the residents of the county of Vas on the ground concerned that the health of those living there is important for the government, that the environment remains clean; that the rules that keep these areas in order, that we enforce, if necessary, that we amend, that we create the legal conditions that allow health to be adequately protected and that jobs in that area should also be maintained, that people should have jobs. I would like to say that I think you are a little behind on this matter, because since you wrote your question, some things have happened with Falco, because Falco Zrt. The operation of its plant in Szombathely has been closely monitored by the Vas County Government Office for a long time, and the Ministry of Agriculture has also done so. On 22 September, the company received a single environmental permit, where the operation of the plant was subject to strict environmental conditions. This guarantees improvements in air quality and noise. A new chip transport technology with a closed afterburner should be used by the company; a plan of measures should be drawn up to reduce odor effects; a dust load should be reduced; a closed storage of sawdust and wood chips will ensure the elimination of dust pollution; an air pollution control automatic measuring system should be established and a warning system should be provided to the environmental authority if necessary. A night noise activity shall not be carried out by the plant in the future. It can therefore be said that we are using all means to protect the health of those living there, and, if necessary, it will, of course, act with the full power and sanctions of the authority against the company. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2016-10-03-94	Thank you. Dear Parliament, Congresswoman Anita Heringes, representative of the MSZP, would like to ask the Minister of National Economy: "Can you live better in the country for a career beginner? It's an address. Here you go.
u2016-10-03-95	Thank you for the floor, Mr. Secretary. Last Monday I asked you, the secretary of state responsible for the labour market and training, in my interpellation, which you refused to give me, not to give an example to Budapest. To this day, I claim that a rural youth, if he works in Budapest, cannot make a living from the average salary. Minister of State said that life in the countryside is cheaper, there are jobs there too, that young people in rural areas should stay at home rather than take a job in Budapest. I've listed the monthly expenses in my question when we're looking at a young man in Zala County. If you add up the numbers, it takes 128,000 forints to make a living in Zala County. And then he didn't move away from his family, he didn't try to start a family, he didn't try to maintain a car, he didn't try to live a normal life. Most of the young people in Zala County leave the country today, and take up work in Austria, because an average wage doesn't make a living there today. Therefore, after this is your district, and you told us to take care of the rurals, I ask Mr. Secretary of State both as Tolna County and in defense of young people in Zala County: how do you think you can make a living today on an average salary? Because, you know, they don't want helicopter rides, they don't want a helicopter to go to a wedding, they want one thing: so that they can make a living on their salary, so that they can start a family, so that they can move away from their parents, so that they can live a normal life in Hungary. They don't want to leave here, but today's average wage won't make a living. Therefore, since this area belongs to you, I look forward to it on behalf of young people in rural areas, what is your answer to enable young people to live in Hungary today.
u2016-10-03-96	Thank you very much. State Secretary Péter Cseresnyés responds. Here.
u2016-10-03-97	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and I wouldn't want to go into a numbers debate with you, a number war, but it's likely that the whole question has a reality content, and the numbers have the same reality content that you brought up here, as you quoted my answers last week, because I didn't reject it, I answered, but you didn't like the answer, because the many data and numbers I brought up to you weren't right. And just because I don't want to go along with disproved thoughts you have said here two or three times, I would like to recall that people are important to our government regardless of whether they live in the capital, want to work there or live in the countryside and want to find a job there for themselves. I would like to remind you that in the last six years, we have increased the number of jobs by 680,000, while in your time the number of employees has fallen. I would also like to draw your attention to the fact that out of the five recently created jobs, four jobs are established in rural areas, so there are also jobs in rural areas. I have tried to draw your attention to the fact that it is not only with Budapest, but also with regard to the countryside, and it is also important to give an example of it, because there is a job there, and there is a place for young people. [[13.50]] And how did wages increase? While in your time, if I remember correctly, if I don't remember correctly, you should warn me, after the 2008 crisis, you took from pensioners, civil servants a 13th month's wage or a pension. [[Dr. Tamás Bellozó: The minimum wage is taxed!]] Until recently, real wages have increased by about 20 percent, so there is a wage increase and a wage increase that you have not been able to produce. [[The President shall ring a bell to indicate the expiry of the time limit.]] I would like to draw your attention to this and to the fact that employment is constantly increasing and that real wages are expected to rise. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-10-03-98	Thank you. Dear Parliament, Member Tamás Pintér, representative of Jobbik, would like to ask the Minister of National Economy:. Why do they not conclude a strategic partnership agreement with the ISD Dunaferr Group? It's an address. The question will be answered on behalf of the Prime Minister by Mr Péter Szijjártó, Minister of Foreign Affairs and Trade, who is competent on behalf of the Prime Minister, when he has asked the question, Mr Pintér. Do it. Here you go.
u2016-10-03-99	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, During my parliamentary work, I would like to pay particular attention to Dunaújváros and the region, which is why I am very concerned about the Danube Vasmű, because any changes there affect economic, labour market and all other indicators in the region. Ironworks have been guaranteeing stability in the region for more than sixty years. In order to preserve this, everything needs to be done at both the local and the highest levels in the future. The people working at Dunaferr will not be able to do that, because they have already done everything they can to make the company work and to ensure the future of the area for a long time. Unfortunately, I cannot say the same about the Government of Hungary. As a result of years of pressure, a small step has finally been taken to stop the wave of dismissal at Dunaferr, but we have to say, unfortunately, this is only a temporary solution for a maximum of two years. For example, a strategic partnership agreement could be used to address problems, which unfortunately has not yet been concluded by the government with Dunaferr. I believe that the problems of the company in difficulty have been solved because the workers, professionals, workers' leaders and trade unions have dealt with the problems that have been raised so far with devotional work and sacrifice. Finally, the government should pay attention to the voice of these people, for example, within the framework of the Strategic Partnership Agreement. It might help a lot if, in addition to many other multinational companies, they could have a direct connection to the government, and such a step might reassure them of their future. [[The President shall ring a bell to indicate the expiry of the time limit.]] Dear Minister, So the question arises when the government plans to conclude the strategic partnership agreement with ISD Dunaferr Zrt. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2016-10-03-100	Thank you. Secretary of State László Szabó, please.
u2016-10-03-101	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, Honourable Congressman, The aim of the Government's strategic partnership programme is to develop long-term and balanced cooperation with the key, stable players of the Hungarian economy in order to increase the country's competitiveness, and not to ensure that strategic agreements are soothing. In line with this, the government only enters into a strategic partnership agreement with companies whose financial situation is well-organised, free from public debt and are not in a lawsuit with the Hungarian State. These strategic agreements should be voluntary on both sides and the declarations of intent based on the emphasis on long-term cooperation do not contain any legal commitments for either party. They obviously don't interfere with the company's marketing strategy, pricing strategy, and I dare even risk it, they don't even talk about global economic processes. In addition to the strategic cooperation agreement, however, the government is in constant dialogue with Dunaferr. Although you thought it was small, I consider it extremely important that the Hungarian government managed to save over a thousand jobs last week, ISD Dunaferr Zrt. the Hungarian government has withdrawn all its collective reduction plans, and the Hungarian government has contributed nearly half a billion HUF to this result. Once again, more than a thousand jobs have been saved at Dunaferr. Of course, the Hungarian government continued to be interested in the company's further development, its success, and the workers' safe workplace. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-10-03-102	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, Before we go any further, on your behalf, I would like to welcome and welcome the teachers and students of the Ady Endre Bay Zoltán High School. I'm glad you're here to monitor the Parliament's work. Have a nice day. Congresswoman Erzsébet Schmuck, representative of the LMP, would like to ask the Prime Minister's Office a question: Why is the payment of EU funds not progressing? It's an address. Here you go.
u2016-10-03-103	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, During the summer, it was clear to all stakeholders that the payments of EU aid were almost not making any progress; all this was said earlier by Minister Lázár that they would pay the tender money faster than ever before, and that all the resources of the 2020 cycle would be allocated by 2019. This was the result of the Hungarian companies, and they applied accordingly, but it seems that the government has cheated them again, because the Ministry is already lagging behind in terms of payments, and one fifth of the 2016 target has not yet been paid. There is confusion in the evaluation of applications, which is mostly caused by a lack of capacity. The government also feels the consequences of the wrong economic policy, the lack of a qualified workforce, because they either emigrate or simply refuse to do such work for such a low wage. The government is trapped in its own trap, but unfortunately the Hungarian businesses are also paying the price: despite the fact that the Ministry wants to hire thousands of people if there are simply no candidates. The government has to admit that the plan for forced payment of applications has failed, the hasty and unpredictable damage to Hungarian companies and the efficiency of the use of money is impaired. Therefore, I ask whether the Prime Minister's Office plans to change the process in view of its failure so far. Are you willing to see the failure of the forced payment plan and to create the conditions for meaningful consideration? Thank you in advance for your reply.
u2016-10-03-104	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Minister, Minister Nándor Csepreghy responds. Here.
u2016-10-03-105	Thank you very much. Mr President, Listening to the words of the Member, and in comparison with what has already been said, it is difficult to say that this is now part of the criticism or praise, because when Parliament had a debate on the use of EU funds, the LMP criticized precisely why the government wanted to pay EU funds too quickly. So if you think it's slow now, then you can only praise us for implementing the LMP programme. But if the congresswoman had actually looked at the figures, she would have realized that this payment was not slow, because, unlike your figures, the reality is that in 2016 the first three-quarter-year payout plan and fact numbers are indeed different, but it is not true that the one-fifth payout rate you mentioned is true, because we paid 84 percent of the money planned for the first three-quarters of years to businesses. This meant that HUF 971.2 billion was allocated to applicants in the framework of EU proposals. It is also important to take these figures into account because when comparing the use of EU funds, it is also important to take into account what these numbers are compared to. If we look at the fulfilment of the same number in the previous development period launched by the Socialists, i.e. in the 2007-13 development period, then we find that 15 months after the adoption of the operational programme, about HUF 0.4 billion was paid weekly to Hungarian entrepreneurs and applicants; the same figure is 4.1 billion in this case. And I think it is fortunate that, either as a Member or as other interested Members of the Parliament, they can receive a brochure on a quarterly basis, in which the government reports on the use of EU funds. You asked the Minister for this, and we promised you that, the first of these papers were given here a few weeks ago, and you will get the next one as it is. And in addition to these speeches, you have the opportunity to take account of the use of EU funds. In this respect, I think the government has fulfilled its commitments, and it is far from the end of the year, and it will fulfil its commitments. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-10-03-106	Dear Parliament, Member László Kiss, representative of the MSZP, would like to ask the Minister without a wallet for national policy:. Has the Government reviewed the possibilities of restructuring education and training grants? It's an address. Congressman! [[14.00]]
u2016-10-03-107	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, I would like to address an issue in which progress has not been achieved in the last few months and years, despite the fact that there is almost complete consistency between the opposition parties and, in any case, we have not had a substantive debate with the government. Fourth year of the government's reduction from HUF 22 400 to HUF 17 200 in the amount of education and education, as well as the per capita support for teaching tools and textbooks for Hungarians across the border, which, by the way, before the change of government in the last eight years, as you say, was an open system under the MSZP governments, so these resources are available. When we talked about starting something with this support system, there was a consensus that the former system did not work well, a new one must be built. Mr Secretary of State has also promised, and Minister has also promised to review the system and, after this review, a new one will be drawn up. At the time, all opposition parties said that we supported this reflection, the review. We don't even want to stick to the old system, because we can see the mistakes ourselves. We have suggested that an impact study be carried out on a system that includes one of the largest funding projects of the Bethlen Gábor Fund, surveys, which, to my knowledge, are still not available to date. Technically, this issue is constantly present both at the committee meeting and in Parliament on several occasions, and I have always received some kind of answer, but we still do not know where the matter is. That is why I ask the Secretary of State: where are these discussions, this thinking, was there any coordination in the review of the educational support, what was the opinion of those involved, if any? Thank you very much for the floor. I'm waiting for your answer.
u2016-10-03-108	Thank you. On behalf of Minister Potápi Árpád State Secretary answers. Here.
u2016-10-03-109	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Members, gentlemen and ladies, Ladies and gentlemen, Honourable Congressman, We think, we agree, and as you said, from HUF 17 200 next year we will re-raise the amount of educational and educational support to HUF 22 400. In the academic year 2015-16, 238 thousand Hungarian students from abroad received support through the Bethlen Gábor Fund. This represents more than HUF 4 billion. I would also like to say that, over the last few years, the support of Hungarians across the border has increased significantly, and I would just like to say the narrowly taken support that has been implemented through the State Secretariat for National Policy and the Bethlen Gábor Fund. I do not expect economic programs here, I do not expect many elderly people from across borders to receive pensions from the Hungarian state, so this amount has increased from HUF 17 billion to HUF 29 billion. Hungarian education across the border is extremely important to the Hungarian government. You have seen the success of last year's vocational training year, which we will continue this year. In the last few weeks we have handed over the Szamosújvár Szórny education centre, the Bethlen Gábor College has been renovated, the Hungarian Szórány College was handed over a week ago, in Bratislava we inaugurated a Hungarian professional college, and is celebrating the first anniversary of its existence in the European College down in Novi Sad. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2016-10-03-110	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Congressman Csaba Gyüre, representative of Jobbik, would like to ask the Minister of National Economy: how long will the county of Szabolcs-Szatmár-Bereg remain? It's an address. Here you go, Congressman.
u2016-10-03-111	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, The income data provided by the HCSO can be found in a statement showing the current income conditions in our country, broken down into counties. This shows that there are amazing differences in the income situation of citizens living in different parts of our country. While the capital city and some counties of Western Hungary stand at the top of the podium, the counties of North and East Hungary are not only ordinary, but also visible competitors of the field. The income ranking is led by the capital, where in 2015 HUF 319 thousand was the gross average income for those employed. This means HUF 209 thousand net. That's what an ordinary employee takes home in Budapest. But in some Buda districts, the net salary is over HUF 300,000. The capital is followed by Győr-Moson-Sopron and Komárom-Esztergom counties, where the employees of Fejér County can bring home a net of 170 and 160 thousand forints at the end of the month, and the employees of Fejér County, with their net HUF 154 thousand per month, are barely trapped off the imaginary podium. However, there are four counties where even the net income is less than 125 thousand forints. In order: Borsod-Abaúj-Zemplén, Nógrád, Békés and Szabolcs-Szatmár-Bereg county. In Borsod there were just 125 thousand forints, in Nógrád there were less than 120 thousand forints, in Békés 118 thousand forints, while in Szabolcs-Szatmár-Bereg County there was only 111 680 forints to be returned to the workers in 2015. Why is a szabolcsi man's work only one third as a Buda resident and only two thirds as a worker in Western Hungary? Are we secondary citizens in North-East Hungary? We can say that the Orbán government has been leaving the population of North-East Hungary, but especially our county, unchanged on the side of the road for six years now. My question: when will there be a result of the fact that the country will not finally have a szabolcs-Szatmár county? How long will our county stay in the low-income county? I look forward to your honored, meaningful reply. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2016-10-03-112	Thank you very much. State Secretary Péter Cseresnyés responds. Here you go.
u2016-10-03-113	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Honourable Congressman, The reduction of territorial disparities between certain regions and counties of the country for decades - I would like to reiterate once again: for decades - is the biggest challenge for the economy and employment policy. So this problem has not just been created, but has been a challenge for a long time. The long-term territorial differences cannot be eliminated in any government cycle, even though our government has taken a number of measures in recent years to ensure that these disadvantaged areas are caught up both in terms of employment policy and in terms of the economy. The Hungarian economy was on a growth path in 2013. It is very forward-looking in terms of reducing territorial disparities that economic growth covers the entire territory of the country, i.e. the more backward regions of the country. This means that contrary to popular belief - and what you have said - not only public employment has created new jobs in the county, even in Szabolcs-Szatmár, but the natural job creation capacity of the economy has also improved. It is very important to stress that half of 40,000 new jobs have been created in the competitive sector since 2010 in the county of Szabolcs-Szatmár. Wages have also changed and are on a rising path, as real earnings in the county increased by 5 percentage points in the first half of 2016 compared to the same period of the previous year. According to data filtered from the impact of public employment, i.e. in the primary labour market, in the competitive sector, there was an even significantly higher, 9.2 percent real demand in Szabolcs County in the first half of this year. This is the second largest increase in counties, and this is also true of North Hungary and North-East Hungary. This shows that the government is doing everything it can to ensure that the catch-up takes place in the counties that have been considered to be disadvantaged, and that once it is started, it continues. Thank you for your attention. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2016-10-03-114	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, Ms Erzsébet Schmuck, representative of the LMP, would like to ask the Minister of Human Resources whether the administrative obstacles to the application for a family home benefit will be removed so that no one is excluded from the support? It's an address. The question will be answered on behalf of the Prime Minister by Mr Mihály Varga, Minister of National Economy, who is responsible and competent according to the subject, and then by Mr András Tállai, State Secretary. Congresswoman!
u2016-10-03-115	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, We have received several indications that despite their compliance with the conditions, several family applications have been rejected. [[Németh Szilárd István: That is not true!]] when applying for a family home-building discount. [[14.10]] Young people who wish to return from abroad are in an impossible situation. Even though they have a legal working relationship outside, the office of that country cannot issue the necessary certificates for a period of time. When applying for the CSOK, the insurance relationship resulting from the employment relationship must be proven by a document not more than 30 days old, but often the post office does not get to Hungary from a foreign country in that time, let alone the certificates could be issued. According to the LMP, the Hungarian state should wait for returning families with open arms and immediately allow them to obtain various grants, including family home-building benefits. The other problem is facing rural families. It was not a rejection because many settlements do not yet have a wired sewage network, and they have developed an excavator for the storage of waste water. In the absence of public sewerage, the legislation requires that waste water be disposed of and cleaned in accordance with the legal requirements, but that certificates issued after the pumping of waste water, if at all, are not accepted by the banks or, after appeal, by government agencies. Dear Secretary of State, Will the rules for applying for the CSOK be amended to ensure that both young people returning from abroad and families living in rural areas receive support? We're waiting for the government to take action on this. Thank you in advance for your reply. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: Where's the applause?]]
u2016-10-03-116	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary of State Tallai.
u2016-10-03-117	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and Gentlemen, The home creation programme works successfully, since until 31 August 16 500 family applications were accepted by credit institutions. The sum of this is approximately HUF 45 billion. Indeed, it is necessary to assess experience and fine-tuning after the introduction of each new programme. With regard to the CSOK, the first amendment was made in September, and several administrative barriers were removed which, based on confirmations and feedback, caused difficulties in practice. I would like to tell you that there have been real difficulties in certifying the social security status of Hungarian citizens working in Britain. The certificate shall be obtained either directly by the CSOK applicant with the foreign authority or may request the documents through government offices. In view of the experience gained, the Ministry of National Economy informed credit institutions dealing with the transmission of CSOK that, in the latter case, the 30-day deadline should be calculated from the date of issue of the letter of the Government Office, so that the time for obtaining the certificate from a foreign authority is not included in the deadline. As far as we know, credit institutions already act accordingly. As regards the problem of waste water storage, I would like to tell you that in one case there has been a request from the public or a request from either credit institutions or government agencies. In this case, we informed the letter writer that, in accordance with the legislation, waste water treatment solutions laid down by the Government decree on national settlement and construction requirements are still acceptable for settlements and parts of settlements, of course for those who do not have public sewage treatment. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] This means that the disposal of waste water or the temporary storage of waste water in leak-free individual sealed waste water reservoirs is accepted by the government offices by regular discharge, in a controlled manner. My apologies for the overshoot. [[Applause from the Fidesz ranks.]]
u2016-10-03-118	It's okay. Dear Parliament, Congresswoman Ágnes Kunhalmi, representative of the MSZP, wishes to ask the Minister of Human Resources: for what reason has the remuneration of Paralympic athletes been reduced? It's an address. Here you go. [[Németh Szilárd István: No decrease!]]
u2016-10-03-119	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, In 2016, the government significantly reduced the remuneration of the Olympic medals. The reduced amount is exactly half of the money that healthy athletes get for the Olympics. We do not understand, because there is no reason for the decrease. The success of disabled athletes is nothing less than the success of their intact peers. The Hungarian state should appreciate that, despite the much narrower opportunities of its athletes, sponsorship contracts, professional training opportunities and state subsidies, they are persistently struggling to achieve success for the Hungarian team, the Hungarian nation. As I understand it, you would like Budapest to organize the 2024 Olympic and Paralympic Games and Budapest to organize them. The Olympic idea is about excellence, including the fact that if you are talented, hardworking and persistent, you can achieve anything, regardless of the country you come from, the religion you follow, the color of your skin, your family background or what kind of disability you live with. The decline in prizes is an incredibly bad message, it conveys to them that the government does not accept them as equals, it values their efforts to less than their sound counterparts. This, please, is not a sports issue, as you said before. I think this is a human question and a social issue. It is about how a state, its political elite, looks at Hungarian society, its athletes and its members. He referred to Dóra Dúró earlier in his reply, as he also asked the question that sports organisations asked for money to prepare. Yes, you'll get a lot more, but it's a matter of decision, Mr. Secretary of State, the decision that you, as a government, decide to give this to the parasportsers and make no distinction between people with disabilities and other athletes. And, please, there is no remuneration in other countries, that is also not an argument. Please explain. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] Why they don't decide to double up. Thank you for your reply.
u2016-10-03-120	Thank you very much. Secretary Bence Rétvári responds. Here you go.
u2016-10-03-121	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Dear House, As has been said in my previous reply, Hungary has increased its support for parasports nearly twice since 2009, from HUF 333 million to HUF 287 million, precisely because of the arguments that you have lined up here, harder to find sponsors, more difficult to prepare, more difficult circumstances when preparing for a paralympic. That is why we have consulted with these organisations, which represent disabled athletes and disabled athletes, so that they can propose what to give extra support to. That is why they asked for preparation, because that is exactly the point for them to be able to get as many people as possible out there, and fortunately now the country is able to get to know as many people as possible, because it was able to follow the Paralympic competitions on the public service sports channel as well as the Olympic competitions. I believe that what you were referring to as our moral task, our duty to make the same performance public and to be equally proud, could also be achieved through public media broadcasting. The system of support was not invented by the government itself, it was not by the government, but by the Hungarian Olympic Committee, which was responsible for the sport of the disabled in 2013, so it was not in 2016. They have consulted sports associations and sports organisations, and this is how they put down this sports industry proposal. Since then, this has been reviewed twice and no amendments have been proposed at all. So we took exactly what the Hungarian Olympic Committee, the Hungarian Paralympic Committee, proposed that this be included in the regulation. Obviously, if they had made a different proposal, it would have created a different situation, but we have fully accepted the proposal of organisations representing parasportsists. They must have appreciated many aspects, the number of competitors [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] the number of medals, foreign examples, and this is how they formulated this proposal, and that is why we have taken it over. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-10-03-122	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, Congressman Gergely Farkas, representative of Jobbik, wishes to ask the Minister of Human Resources: "Why does the Government seek to make foundational training impossible? It's an address. On behalf of the Prime Minister, Mr Mihály Varga, Minister of National Economy, who is responsible and competent according to the subject, will answer the question and then Mr Péter Cseresnyés, State Secretary. Before I give the floor to Congressman Gergely Farkas, I thank you for your cooperation and give the chair to Vice-President Latorcai. Thank you very much. [[Dr. János Latorcai, vice-president of the Parliament, takes the chair.]]
u2016-10-03-123	Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, In recent days, the government has published its so-called professional structure decision on the planned vocational training framework for the next academic year. As a result, the number of students who have been on a declining trend for years and can be accepted by foundation schools free of tuition will continue to decrease, as according to this decision, there will be no State-funded training facilities for foundations. It is self-evident and absolutely justified that, after that, there is complete indignation and incomprehensibility in these institutions, because the government virtually makes their work impossible. The arrogance of the government is also shown by the absurdity that the opinion of decisions taken without consultation with professional organisations and stakeholders was available for a total of four days, of which two were taken for the weekend. They did so despite the fact that even the President of the National Pedagogical Faculty indicated that it would be premature to change vocational training so unprepared. [[14.20]] Dear Secretary of State, You always say the importance of consultation. Then why didn't social and professional dialogue take place? Do they not consider professionalism important, or are we simply talking about the usual centralization of power? The government's idea of reforming vocational training is also specific if it is thought that, in doing so, it will indirectly eliminate foundation vocational training, which is otherwise of quality in deficiency professions. As a result, the government takes away the opportunity to acquire a profession and a degree from countless children, making it seriously difficult for them to study and work. According to Jobbik, this is unacceptable, and together with foundation schools, we call on the government to withdraw this draft piece of legislation. After all this, I ask the Secretary of State where the preliminary consultation is and why they do not want to support foundational vocational training in the state. I look forward to your substantive answer. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2016-10-03-124	Thank you very much, Congressman. I warmly welcome my fellow Members and give the floor to Mr Péter Cseresnyés, State Secretary. Here you go.
u2016-10-03-125	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, The Hungarian government is committed to establishing a vocational training system based on the needs of the economy. In addition to the creation and maintenance of quality vocational training, particular attention should also be paid to the efficient use of resources, the use of available public training capacities and the avoidance of duplication of training. One of the tools for implementing these principles is the so-called structure of the profession decision, which, through the County Development and Training Committee operated by the Hungarian Chamber of Commerce and Industry, enforces the expectations of the economy in the field of state-supported training taking into account labour market needs, so there is a significant consultation, professional discussion and professional consultation. This committee, operating within the framework of the VET Act, shall make a written proposal for vocational training needs by the end of March each year, taking into account the economic needs of the county, region concerned, labour market demand data and education data of the previous period, taking into account the local VET development concept. Based on the preliminary staffing figures, by the academic year 2016-17, the proportion of people educated is significant in the state vocational training institutions and is close to 70%. In particular, the involvement of external trainers may appear where the State is only partially or not able to perform its task fully. In addition, it is important that the training system should provide security for young people in vocational training. This means teaching professions that, after learning them, they must be able to find a safe place for themselves in the labour market. This will also be taken into account before any decision on the structure of the profession is taken. So the government's aim is to have a stable, well-functioning and cost-effective vocational training system in place, and that is why there are these post-negotiation decisions that I have just listed. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-10-03-126	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Ms Erzsébet Schmuck, the group leader of the LMP Group, wishes to ask the Minister for Agriculture: "Does Sándor Fazekas assume political responsibility? It's an address. Congresswoman Erzsébet Schmuck has the floor. Here you go.
u2016-10-03-127	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Minister, No one is surprised that Fidesz enriches its oligarchs at the expense of state wealth, but it goes beyond the usual level that Fidesz sees a prey in the Start Work Programme, which provides a livelihood for hundreds of thousands of people throughout the country. According to the Ministry of Interior, the county of Szolnok alone paid 83.8 percent of the public works subsidies recovered in all counties in 2015 due to abuse or irregularities. In fact, there are two settlements in the constituency of Minister Fazekas, which we are talking about, and practically Minister, campaigned alongside the mayors of these two settlements in autumn 2014. It is becoming increasingly obvious that where minister appears in the country, there is also a suspicion of abuse and corruption. Not only the Ministry of Agriculture can find incomprehensible overpriced studies, not only the background institutions of the Ministry of Agriculture are trading hundreds of millions, but also the agricultural public work programme, led by the Minister, has high corruption risks. The competent government office has already filed a complaint for both municipalities, with regard to which both Abadszalók and Tiszabura were prosecuted by the NAV. Personal responsibility is likely to be established only in the distant future, but the identity of the political responsible is obvious. This can only be the person who campaigned for the mayors caught in the autumn of 2014 and who also considered the management of the public agricultural work programme. So the question remains, Minister, who's gonna take the fall for community service fraud in your constituency. From what and how will Abadszalok and Tiszabura repay more than 130 million in total? Thank you in advance for your reply.
u2016-10-03-128	Thank you very much, Madam Group leader. The answer will be given by Minister Sándor Fazekas. Here you go, Minister.
u2016-10-03-129	Dear Parliament, Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Thank you for the question, on which it is certainly useful to have said, at least two things are already clear from the question you have asked. One is that you are not aware of the Start work, not even of the basic concepts, and the other is that you do not really have any information or concept about the public life of the two settlements. I'm gonna help you find your way into this complicated relationship. First of all, I would like to point out that Start-work is a livelihood for tens of thousands of people and that a number of other wallets, the Prime Minister's Office and the Ministry of Agriculture, were involved in the development of this programme under the direction of the Ministry of Interior. Here, too, for the two municipalities, the respective municipalities have concluded contracts. In general, Start work is contracted, where commitments are made, financing is involved, accounting and control is also involved. This is correct; if they are not able to account precisely somewhere, the aid must be repaid. These municipalities are, by the way, obliged and willing to do so. So far there is no news of any other responsibility involved. Madam, the rules here are clear and the contracts are clear. I can't believe the Department of Agriculture could take responsibility for any Start-Worker or any control body, any quarterback, because everyone has their own responsibility. It's yours, too, when you deliberately misinformed Parliament and public opinion, because you certainly don't have any information that there have been any changes in public life in the two settlements. I don't expect you to, because it's a matter of an individual district, and you've never had such a thing, never had so much trust from the electorate. I would like to say that both municipalities are dealing with problems with the settlement of former municipalities, and since then there have been Fidesz-KDNP municipalities, most recently in Abadszalok as a result of the spring elections, who will, of course, carry out their work. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-10-03-130	Thank you very much, Minister. Dear Parliament, This brings us to the end of the discussion of the representatives' questions. It is now possible to address and respond to the issue of the minority advocate. Ladies and gentlemen, Alexov Lyubomir, Serbian national minority spokesperson, wants to ask the Minister of the Prime Minister's Office if it is expected that a specific contract will be concluded until the next joint Hungarian-Serbian Government meeting. In connection with the implementation of Government Resolution No 1? It's an address. On behalf of the Prime Minister, the question will be answered on behalf of Minister Zoltán Balog, Minister for Human Resources, Minister of State Bence Rétvári. Speaker Alexov Lyubomir. Here you go.
u2016-10-03-131	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, Government actions in recent years, facing past mistakes, an adequate assessment of the historical past, as well as a joint drive for victims, have all helped to establish an ever better relationship and cooperation between Hungary and Serbia. The beneficiaries of the good neighbourly relationship, which has now been said to be significant on the historical scale, are also nationalities on both sides of the border. [[14.30]] Members of the Serbian community in Hungary appreciate and acknowledge the measures that have enabled institution creation and takeover in the field of education and culture, which have broadened our opportunities. This line fits the government 1031/2016. The resolution of the Hungarian-Serbian joint government meeting held on 1 July 2015 provided for the implementation of certain decisions concerning the Serbian Orthodox Church of Buda and the Serbian nationality in Hungary. According to the Government's resolution, all important issues for the Serbian community in Hungary are settled, which have not been resolved in the past years, but are vital for Serbia's nationality in Hungary. The government decision settles the issue of the restoration of the properties of the Serbian Orthodox Diocese, primarily the restoration of churches, the worthy placement of the Budapest centre of faith, as well as the provision for the placement of the Serbian kindergarten in Budapest, as well as the possibilities for the establishment of the Serbian cultural and educational centre in Szeged. In this regard, I would like to ask Mr Secretary of State whether, in the near future, a treaty will be concluded on the implementation of this Government decision or whether there will be sufficient resources to implement it. Thank you very much.
u2016-10-03-132	Thank you very much, Mr Speaker. As I said, the answer will be given by Secretary of State Bence Rétvári. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2016-10-03-133	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Speaker, Dear House, In July 2015, there was a joint Hungarian-Serbian government meeting, and I think it also shows both the series of decisions made at that time and the events that have passed since then that, if two countries respect each other, they share the same view in many respects of major world political events, how they can help the people living in another country in their everyday life, serving each other's nationalities. Some decisions are easier to implement and some are more complex. It was one of the simpler ones, because it was only a question of money, the placement of the kindergarten of Nikola Tesla Serbian Kindergarten, Primary School, High School and Student Home, for which the Serbian National Municipality will receive a grant of HUF 200 million, and I believe that this solemn ceremony, the ceremony and announcement will take place in the days. We hope that Serbia will also be represented on a high level. I think this will also be an important step in the area of Serbian education in Hungary. We have also contributed to the purchase of two school buses, totaling HUF 36 million. On the one hand, it can deliver students to the school Nikola Tesla in Budapest, on the other hand, to the Serbian primary school in Battony. It is also important to create a new Dictionary. I think it was an important decision of the joint Serbian-Hungarian government meeting. The works on ELTE are started and even started, and the necessary budget coverage is included in the 2017 Budget Act, so we can use the 2017 Budget Act adopted here in Parliament to cover this. With regard to the possibility of setting up the Serbian National Kindergarten and Primary School in Szeged, I believe that the speaker also has full up-to-date information, since you and the President of the Serbian National Local Government have been involved in continuing these discussions, and we are in the middle of a long consultation on the settlement of property under 66 Váci Street, but private property has to be acquired there, therefore the activity is slower there. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-10-03-134	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, That concludes the questions. Now we move on to immediate questioning. Dear Parliament, Tamás Harangozó, representative of the MSZP, wants to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question: why do you not act against the hundreds of billion-dollar benefits of settlement bonds by private companies and fidesz buddies, and in a few years the Hungarian taxpayers will have to repay this huge amount with interest? It's an address. Congressman Tamás Bellozó has the floor. Here you go.
u2016-10-03-135	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. How are you, Prime Minister, so unauthorized, the next day after the most expensive failed campaign of all time? [[There's a grumble in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] I would understand if you were upset, because we can finally say that in the referendum only the neighbor of Antal Rogán the helicopter, Mr. Gucci Bag Habony, and the casino player Andy Vajna won or won, among whom they scattered the few, modest, albeit not offensive, HUF 14 billion in the campaign. It would be nice to hear a few words about that, too. But back to the original topic, the settlement policy: I ask you, as the Grail Knight of the fight against offshore, how you can look without saying how hundreds of billions of offshore companies are shoveling out of the public property of the Hungarian state. Don't you think that the majority of people didn't vote, among other things, because they're fed up with the lie you're doing on public money? They are fed up with the announcement on a billboard that Brussels wants to relocate a city of migrants to Hungary, while it turns out that you, under the leadership of Antal Rogán, have planted a city of economic immigrants in Hungary in recent years, and these people have not created a piece of new job. That they are sick of the fact that they are now estimated at about 300 billion forints of what these companies have been carrying before their noses, through offshore companies, through the damage to the Hungarian state register, and are not responsible. I'm asking you, Prime Minister, where's the money? Did the Fidesz come from these hundreds of billions? Did you get Fidesz's leading politicians out of these hundred billion? Have you received any money from these hundreds of billions? And if not, Prime Minister, do you support the proposal of the MSZP to shut down the settlement bond business immediately, to publicly account for the leaders of these companies, and to recover the money from the Hungarian people with a 75% special tax? I'm waiting for your answer.
u2016-10-03-136	Thank you very much. Prime Minister Viktor Orbán is responsible for his response. Here you go, Prime Minister.
u2016-10-03-137	The settlement policy is a successful construction, because unlike what you said, it brings money to the country, and it doesn't get a penny out of here. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-10-03-138	Thank you very much. It's a one-minute rejoinder, Congressman. Here you go.
u2016-10-03-139	Thank you very much. Prime Minister, you're way below yourself. I don't know why he keeps running away from responsibility. Why are you running? Why can't you clearly say that it's okay, you're in favour of shoveling out hundreds of billions? Both the IRS and the Fidesz politicians sitting here have repeatedly established and admitted that these companies have no taxation in Hungary. They are doing exactly what you were supposed to be fighting and taking away hundreds of billions from the Hungarian budget. They do not create any new jobs, they do not benefit Hungarian people; we see no other meaning than to benefit some kind of financial circles or even political circles from public money. Why do you assist, Prime Minister? And if you don't assist, please stop running. Be kind to answer directly: will you support us to stop this, to account for the companies, and to recover the untaxed money? I'm waiting for your answer again.
u2016-10-03-140	A one-minute rejoinder is also due to the Prime Minister. Here you go.
u2016-10-03-141	The truth is, I don't understand what you're saying. He's talking nonsense, no ears, no tail for what he's saying. If I understand correctly, you want to talk about the existence of a sovereign debt purchase facility linked to a residence permit in Hungary. Is that what you want to talk about? Am I reading this right? [[Dr. Tamás Bellozó: About where the money went!]] If that's the case, I can tell you that 2,807 people have been granted a residence permit so far, not a single forint of public money has been taken out of the country, and only money has been imported into the country. This construction is necessary. The question is whether this construction will be necessary in the future. Given that Hungary has been certified, the sovereign debt market should be reviewed. The Minister of Finance will do so, and as soon as this report is completed, we will decide whether this arrangement will continue to run, which, by the way, is a European construction, or we will launch another one instead. I repeat: this is a successful and safe construction. Not a penny of public money went out of the country, but a lot of money came in. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-10-03-142	Thank you very much, Prime Minister. Dear Parliament, Member Gábor Vona, Vice-President of the Jobbik Group, wants to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question: "The responsibility for the failure of the referendum." Congressman Gábor Vona has the floor. Here you go.
u2016-10-03-143	Mr. Prime Minister, Dear Parliament, I can see that during our debate before the agenda, my arguments relating to your resignation have driven him out of his mind, he has become remarkably angry, he has started to cut, his response has become personal. [[14.40]] It even came up, I was having trouble going to a gym or going to a hairdresser. I don't know what your problem is with that, Prime Minister. I was really worried about you, Prime Minister. I'm asking you to keep your cool, because this is bad for your health. The fact is that as much as it pains you, as much as it doesn't please you, this unsuccessful and unsuccessful referendum cannot be explained, nor will it be possible to explain it in the country or abroad. It's not the country, it's not the people, it's not the Jobbik, it's your personal downfall and failure. The country has spent 15 billion forints under your leadership in a failed referendum, resulting in Hungary being even more backwards in the fight against quotas than it was before the referendum. A year ago, Prime Minister, I asked you and you to hold a referendum. We were after röske in a recent experience after the quota announcement. If we had this referendum then, it would have been valid and effective. But you didn't listen to me a year ago. Then, six months ago, I suggested to Prime Minister and you that we amend the Fundamental Law, since the Fundamental Law is able to protect Hungary from the threat of quotas for free, but you did not listen to me, Prime Minister, not even six months ago. But then we could have saved 15 billion forints, and most of all we could have saved this failed referendum. Maybe the third time you've listened to me, Prime Minister, maybe the third time you've learned from your mistakes. For the third time, I'm asking you to resign. Not for me, but for the country. Because you've become unfit for that task. [[An uproar in the pro-government benches. Dr. Bence Rétvári: White suit for Gábor Vona!]] , to fight to protect Hungary from Brussels in a meaningful and successful way in relation to quotas. You have been the losing Hungarian Prime Minister since last night in the eyes of EU leaders. Don't try to smear me, Prime Minister. Don't try to shift responsibility to someone else. That's your responsibility, Prime Minister. You'll have to take it. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2016-10-03-144	Thank you very much. Prime Minister Viktor Orbán has the floor. Here you go, Prime Minister.
u2016-10-03-145	I've never been a fan of professional psychoanalysis, let alone amateur. [[Defiance.]] You could spare us these semi-scientific insights. But if you see the need to analyze the country as an amateur psychoanalist in public, including my state of mind, then pass the time. If you'll excuse me, I'm not joining this. And your proposal that I resign, I'll consider it. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-10-03-146	Thank you very much, Prime Minister. President Gábor Vona has the floor for a one-minute rejoinder. Here you go.
u2016-10-03-147	I am pleased to hear, Prime Minister, that you are considering making progress, I think. But perhaps the most important thing first is to say a few words about your own responsibility, because what we heard before the agenda this morning was to avoid your responsibility. You still do not face the fact that you have harmed Hungary, you have brought Hungary into a losing battle, and you have given Brussels the authority to issue quotas, you have given him a hand in hand. And by the way, what you said before the agenda, I definitely resent it. I ask that the former Vice-President of the Liberal International and the signatory of the Lisbon Treaty do not lecture Jobbik and us in the protection of national interests. [[An uproar in the pro-government benches. Let's hear it for Jobbik.]] Yesterday, a journalist asked me if Viktor Orbán would resign. I told you, I don't think he will, he doesn't have the courage that David Cameron had. But, Prime Minister, if you no longer have the courage, at least have the courage to ask for a vote of confidence in you, to ask your own opinion about your irresponsible action. Even Ferenc Gyurcsány dared to do that. Or are you afraid of your own opinions, Prime Minister? [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2016-10-03-148	Prime Minister Viktor Orbán has the floor for a one-minute rejoinder. Here you go.
u2016-10-03-149	Mr President, I had a moment to consider the offer in a manner worthy of the seriousness of the proposal. I don't accept it. Thank you very much. [[Delightfulness and a long applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-10-03-150	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, Congresswoman Bernadett Szél, representative of the LMP, wishes to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question, "Who lies in the government?" It's an address. Congresswoman Bernadett Wind has the floor. Here you go.
u2016-10-03-151	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr. Prime Minister, After October 3rd, things can't go on like they did in the previous months. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that there is a full wage crisis in Hungary today. Two million Hungarian workers are practically earning below the minimum living age, and three quarters of the tax-paying working citizens earn under average wage. Prime Minister! This country is miserable. The LMP is of the opinion that if you work eight hours with integrity, you can make a living and make a living for your family. In Hungary, in your country, this is not the case at present. This is why Hungarian people migrate abroad, and in Hungary we feel that there is an increasing shortage of labour. Mr. Prime Minister, What's the strategy? What is the government's strategy to tackle labour shortages in Hungary? What is the government's strategy to bring home Hungarians who have gone abroad? When we spoke recently, Prime Minister said that we should be happy with all the money these people are sending home. Prime Minister! I would be happy if these people had a job at home that they could make a living from, and they didn't have to go abroad out of existential coercion. It's not a choice, it's a compulsion for these families. Prime Minister! These families can't be torn apart. What I see on the stands in my country is that there are hardly any Hungarian families from which at least one person would not have gone abroad under duress. I think that you, as the responsible Prime Minister, must answer the question of what will be the way out of the wage crisis in Hungary. On the one hand, I am asking you this because the wage crisis in Hungary is the most important strategic problem. If there's no solution, there's no solution to anything. On the other hand, I'm asking you because your ministers seem to be talking nonsense. There was a minister who said to bring in migrant workers from abroad, the other said that there was no such thing on the government's spiritual horizon, the third said that there would be a reduction in contributions. Mr. Prime Minister, What's your solution?
u2016-10-03-152	Thank you very much. I give the floor to Prime Minister Viktor Orbán. Here you go, Prime Minister.
u2016-10-03-153	It is a fine task, honourable Member, to outline an economic policy in two minutes. If you don't mind, I might be able to tell you your point. The first and most important thing you may remember is that in 2010, when the Christian Democratic People's Party and Fidesz received the trust of voters and we were able to form a government, there was 12 percent unemployment in Hungary. That's when we announced our policy, where we said the first thing we did was work, because when there's work, there's everything. What I can tell you is that, according to the latest facts, unemployment has fallen below 5 percent. Our goal remains to have full employment in Hungary, because all livelihoods are based on work. If there's no job, there's no pay. That's why you have to be mindful of wage increases. We need to raise our wages so that jobs don't go away. Therefore, our approach, as you call it, is that we are always doing so together with employers and employees to increase market wages, which we can only influence through raising the minimum wage. For years, the government has not decided on the minimum wage, but has always accepted the agreement between employers and employees, because we believe that they know what a wage increase in the market world can be paid by entrepreneurs without losing jobs. I would like to stick to this, as well as the direction of the government, in the next period. As far as our employees, i.e. the people employed by the state, are concerned, I can tell you that, in recent years, we have raised everyone's salary, the police, the soldiers, the medical staff, the nurses, the employees of the social system, the employees of the administration, the teachers. So I think that everything that the pace of the increase in market wages required has been followed and fulfilled by the state for its part. This is a sound policy and it will lead us to full employment. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-10-03-154	Thank you very much, Prime Minister. A one-minute rejoinder from Congresswoman Bernadett Wind. Here you go.
u2016-10-03-155	Prime Minister! I see that you're completely disinheriting yourself. You said that if there's work, there's everything. I think it's only when there's wages to live on. And, Prime Minister, you have not answered my question about whether there is a plan to deploy foreign migrant workers in mass and organised in this country. I am sorry to answer for you: there is such a plan, there is such a law, and there is also such a regulation, which states that when it comes to strategic partners or priority national investments, we do not need to have the company working in the deficit economy, and you allow us to bring in workers from abroad organised and mass. Mr. Prime Minister, What do you think of that? These are strategic partners, helped by taxpayers' forints and European taxpayers' money to create jobs. These companies don't even have to hire Hungarian workers after that. Mr. Prime Minister, What kind of politics is this? Because it's not national, that's for sure.
u2016-10-03-156	Thank you very much. One-minute rejoinder, Prime Minister. Here you go.
u2016-10-03-157	You know, I didn't answer that because you didn't ask me that. But if you've asked, I'd be happy to answer that, yes, I only have a minute now. There is a clear legal system in Hungary, which also settles this issue: the employment of third-country nationals in Hungary. The aim, clearly stated by our decision, is that the labour shortage in Hungary must primarily be filled with Hungarian and European Union citizens, and third-country nationals may then follow. [[14.50]] In other words, they are only entitled to work in Hungary if the vacancy cannot be filled with Hungarian or EU citizens. In 2004, 65 thousand such work permits were issued in Hungary - in 2004 - and 5 thousand in the last year. At the same time, the number of third countries employed in Hungary is 49 thousand in 2016. Foreigners' employment in Hungary has continued to decline since 2010; it has not increased, but has decreased. It follows that domestic labour expansion occurred primarily from the unemployed in Hungary. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] We have some proposals to further develop this system, but we will be able to discuss it the next time, in the absence of time. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-10-03-158	Thank you very much, Prime Minister. Congressman Péter Ágh, representative of Fidesz, wishes to ask the Minister of the Interior an immediate question: what about the southern border after the referendum? It's an address. The Minister has appointed Mr Károly Kontra as Secretary of State to respond to his urgent public mission. The Member has already indicated to me that he accepts the person who is responding, so the word is Mr Péter Ágh's. Here you go.
u2016-10-03-159	Thank you for the floor. Dear Secretary of State, Since Saturday, various news has been published that migrants waiting in Serbia pay great attention to the referendum in Hungary, as the news spread among them that they will soon open the border for them regardless of the outcome. The migrants have been preparing all weekend - this is what they said on television - so that they can come from Serbia on Monday, or today. According to the declarations, they were encouraged by the people from Hungary, as a result of which they had been planning to leave between them since Saturday evening. If the Hungarian referendum had a result that was favourable to them, in that case the Hungarian border could be opened, but many spoke about the opening of the border on Monday regardless of the result. According to the head of the Serbian asylum-seeker protection centre, the number of illegal immigrants in Serbia is now between 7 and 10 thousand, and he believes that if they can't go on over time, they can become nervous, impatient and tense. There is a steady increase in the tension between immigrants waiting in Serbia, even as the locals say. Several sites have already started collecting signatures for the liquidation of the camps or at least for the purpose of creating them not in the settlements but outside them. Dear Secretary of State, In light of this, I ask what is the situation at the border now. Should additional measures be taken to ensure borders and maintain order? Thank you for your answer. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-10-03-160	Thank you very much, Congressman. The answer, as I said, will be given by Secretary of State Károly Kontra. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2016-10-03-161	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, First of all, I would like to say that as a result of the 3 million 300 thousand non-votes cast in yesterday's referendum - which rejected forced resettlement - Hungary has increased its security, Hungary has become a safer country, but the security of the Hungarian people, Hungary, is served by border guards, border hunters, police and soldiers who serve the Hungarian border as they did before. I would like to say that the Hungarian-Serbian border and the entire southern border, i.e. the Hungarian-Croatian border and all the Hungarian border sections are in order. Hungary, the Hungarian authorities, continues to aim to ensure that no person enters the territory of Hungary illegally. So we're telling the migrants to stay where they are or go home. Hungary continues to protect its borders, Hungary protects Europe's Schengen borders. In the last 72 hours, a total of 31 persons have been apprehended due to illegal border crossings. Of these, two Romanians, 29 Serbs, were escorted to a depth of 117 Serbian cases. There's been no illegal crossing of the border lock. So I would like to reassure the honourable Member and to say to the public that there is order at the borders of Hungary, the law rules, we protect Hungary's borders, the security of the Hungarian people, and we protect the external borders of the European Union. Hungary also fulfils its obligations in the European Union. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-10-03-162	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. A one-minute rejoinder from Congressman Péter Agh. Here you go.
u2016-10-03-163	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I think it is clear and clear: Hungary's interests must be supported; it must stand up in Brussels and stand up at the borders. This was clearly supported by the more than 3 million people who expressed their will at the Prime Minister's call. In this connection, allow me to thank you for your high support in my constituency, as more than 53 percent considered it important for you to participate, to be in the referendum, and more than 35 000 of them clearly did not vote. As in the Sárvár constituency, the message is clear to all parts of the country: the country must continue to be protected. It helps me to do this, I think, by recruiting border hunters, which is taking place with great forces. I respectfully ask the Secretary of State how recruitment is now, how many have applied to border hunters, who will ensure our borders in the future. Thank you for your answer. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-10-03-164	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary of State, please.
u2016-10-03-165	Thank you very much. Thank you, Mr. President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, I have good news for you and the public in this country, because to date, nearly 5,000 people have been interested and more than 1350 have applied to be border hunters, and there are 1352 border hunters, whose training will be launched and completed. The Government provides the necessary financial conditions and, moreover, provides the necessary resources to carry out border protection tasks in full. We will implement the government's decision to increase the number of police forces by 3,000 border hunts, as a result of which I can say that today, tomorrow, the day after tomorrow and in the future, we will defend Hungary, defend the Hungarian southern border and fulfil the EU's obligation. Hungary can count on police, border hunters [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] I'm going to go to Homelanders. Thank you very much.
u2016-10-03-166	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Congressman Nándor Gúr, a representative of the MSZP, wants to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question: why do you tolerate fearsome practices in people that have already allowed the establishment of 16,000 foreigners, among whom there are convicted Russian criminals, to sell Hungary's security for money? It's an address. [[Viktor Orbán: That was before!]] Congressman Nándor Gúr has the floor.
u2016-10-03-167	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Prime Minister! After an invalid referendum where a month's salary of 100,000 people has been applauded, you must now hear from you that the settlement policy is a successful construction; it brings money to the country and does not take money out of the country. Are you serious about what you're talking about? I'm sure you remember that, within the framework of the Economic Committee, Antal Rogán was the chairman of the committee when the story began. I think seven offshore companies have been assigned. What you need to see is that buddies are really good at the party, so they're the ones who make the money while people lose resources. [[Viktor Orbán is talking to Dr. Zsolt Semjén.]] Prime Minister, you can listen to me, you don't have to talk to anyone else, I'll tell you what you need to know. [[Delight and murmur in the pro-government benches.]] Because you don't seem to know, I don't think you're able to put your colleagues in a position to give you real, true numbers on the settlement bond. Only 3,800 are the number of settlement bonds sold. In terms of about 16 to 18,000 people, it is the involvement that manifests itself. A hundred billion forints is the profit that friends get off the business. Do you know how much this is? 100,000 million forints. All of Miskolc's family houses could be bought out of this. You should decide, Prime Minister, whether you really think this is a good construction or whether the resources that, in a sense, are being taken away from people will be turned back to people. You know, the money and benefits of these offshore-type companies will all be repaid - but who did? By the people. Do you think that's a good way to go? Do you consider this to be an example? I think it's worth thinking about. Everything for money? Will they even sell Hungary's safety for money? Anyway, it doesn't matter, it just doesn't matter. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] How's it going with your buddies? Mr. President, thank you very much.
u2016-10-03-168	Thank you very much. We will hear the answer from Prime Minister Viktor Orbán. Here you go, Prime Minister.
u2016-10-03-169	I wonder if it's right that I have a déjà vu feeling. Wasn't that before? Or can it be every time? What's the rule here? [[Defiance.]]
u2016-10-03-170	All questions go ahead.
u2016-10-03-171	If it's possible every time, you can answer it every time. First of all, I would like to make it clear that a democratic party is not used to question the need for financial resources to run democracy. I have to say that even the MSZP fraction doesn't feel sorry for money, because democracy doesn't work without it. [[15.00]] You regret even the referendum. I repeat: if it was a matter of life for a country, then the money spent, if necessary, would have been ready to spend more than one. So much for that question. What is unclear is exactly how it relates to the settlement obligation, but it seems that in your case it is not difficult to establish this connection. [[Ildikó Bangóné Borbély: You can buy anything for money...]] You're not going next door for a little fib, are you? [[Dr. László Kács: Pintér says otherwise!]] Until 18 September 2016, 2807 people were granted residence permits in Hungary. Plus, it doesn't make any sense what you're talking about. I didn't understand what your fellow Member said before. The issue is that people buy Hungarian government bonds; the Hungarian state pays interest on the Hungarian government bond, that's all. [[Ildikó Bangóné Borbély: You have to pay me back...]] This construction was necessary because in 2011-2012 Hungary was in a position to doubt whether Hungarian government bonds would be recorded on the markets, as we were under various strong financial pressures. [[Ildikó Bangóné Borbély intervenes.]] That's why we came up with this system, which, by the way, is a well-known system in Europe. This fulfilled his expectations. We had two goals: to be safe - that's it - and to be successful, that is, to buy government bonds. Interest shall be paid on all government bonds. After that, you don't have to pay any more than any other government bond. Then where is the loss here, ladies and gentlemen? [[Márta Demeter interrupts. Dr. László Kács: But four times...]] This is a successful, safe and effective construction for Hungary. [[Applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2016-10-03-172	Thank you very much, Prime Minister. A one-minute rejoinder from Congressman Nándor Gúr. Here you go.
u2016-10-03-173	For you, Prime Minister, that means the security when criminals enter this country, thanks to, say, this bond. For you, the security and the benefits are when friends get money in the order of 100,000 million forints, through offshore and offshore companies. For you, however, I see that the situation is not clear, because it would be good to say that, in addition to Secretary of State Kontra, you should also talk to Minister Pintér, because Minister Pintér himself recognises figures that far surpass what you are talking about. You should at least be aware of the fact that you are already involved in the protection of the settlement bond structure in a shameful way as to what is behind this story. [[Interview from the benches of MSZP: That's right.]] What's behind it, Prime Minister, is that the buddies get the money, which people will pay back at four times the price. It still costs 6 billion forints more today than financing this story from the market. I'm not. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] We need your answer, Prime Minister, we don't need it. [[Demercation from the benches of opposition parties. Applause from the benches of MSZP.]]
u2016-10-03-174	I respectfully ask the Prime Minister... [[Viktor Orbán: I don't want to intrude, thank you very much. Defiance from the benches of the governing parties.]] Thank you very much. [[Anita Herring: It's a confession!]] Dear Parliament, Congressman János Volner, leader of the Jobbik Group, wants to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question:, Why does the Government not do anything to increase the wages of Hungarians working? It's an address. Mr. János Volner has the floor, please.
u2016-10-03-175	Thank you very much. Mr. Prime Minister, You've been fighting for a lot of things since 2010. It immediately began, fighting to be the various fidesz delegates of the Supreme Court; to lead the National Court of Justice by the wife of a fidesz MEP; to be a fidesz representative of the State Court of Auditors. In these struggles there was only one thing in common: you have always fought for Fidesz's internal political interests, but you have never fought for the Hungarian people to have a significant wage increase in order to eradicate the poverty of workers in Hungary. And, Prime Minister, when you defend that the government can only intervene through the minimum wage increase, do you know what you have raised since 2010, Prime Minister? The minimum wage was barely raised, but the minimum wage was doubled. And I'm offering you another connection, Prime Minister. If you look at the richest Western European states now, you can see that in Hungary the economic performance per capita is about half as high as in the richest Western European states, but the wage gap is six to seven times higher than in the Western European states. Prime Minister! This shows nothing more than the fact that in this country, Hungary, the funding of this wage increase is being produced. We do not want you to have wages in Germany from tomorrow, but we want you to do so as your head of government in order to achieve a noticeable wage increase in Hungary, because, as I pointed out, this wage increase has its cover. 8-9 percent personal income tax is covered; there is also coverage for tax relief and tax reductions for minimum wage earners. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2016-10-03-176	Thank you very much. The Prime Minister has the floor for the answer. Here you go, Prime Minister.
u2016-10-03-177	I have good news for you. Contrary to the pre-2010 period, real wages have been growing steadily in Hungary for three and a half years; they have fallen earlier and are now growing. You know the difference: one goes down, the other goes up. [[Defiance from the benches of the governing parties.]] Real earnings rose by 7.4 percent in the first seven months of 2016. What you're saying about minimum wage is unfortunately not true or a matter of taste. In 2010 the minimum wage was 73 500 HUF, in 2016 111,000 HUF - there was never an example of such a raise in such a short time. [[Dr. László Cook intervenes.]] The highest rate of minimum wage has increased in Hungary between 2010 and 2015 in the ranking of OECD countries. We spent 300 billion forints on wage management for healthcare workers. The salary of specialists and hospital pharmacists is increased by HUF 207 thousand at two paces. Since 2010, core care workers have received a 41 percent funding surplus, which will continue this year. Nurses' wages will increase by 65 percent on average by 2019. In the case of teachers, an average wage increase of about 50 per cent is expected over five years. Nursing staff with a higher education will also receive this. In January this year, their wages increased in one step, between 40 and 60 thousand forints. In the case of higher education workers, wage increases by 27 percent until 2018. As a first step, their salary increased by 15 percent in January. Social and child protection workers, 93,000 employees: In 2014, we introduced the wage supplement, the wage supplement, and spent HUF 35 billion on this. In the summer of 2015, the police started with 30 percent salary increase, 50 percent until 2019 [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] their wages will increase. I do not want you to feel that the government is running a success propaganda, so I would like to stress that this was only possible because people in Hungary were willing to work. They created the cover for this. We owe you our thanks. [[Applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2016-10-03-178	Thank you very much. A one-minute rejoinder, Mr. János Volner, will you take the floor?
u2016-10-03-179	Prime Minister! First of all, I want to thank you for bringing up the OECD and the minimum wage together. I suggest you look at the highest tax burden on the minimum wage in the OECD Member States. Well, he was led by you in Hungary. What you are talking about, Prime Minister, is how the minimum wage has changed - that is how much the gross amount has changed. His net has barely increased, and his public burdens have doubled. [[Intercom from Jobbik's benches: That's right!]] So, Prime Minister, where there may have been room for manoeuvre to combat the poverty of your employees, right in the vulnerable minimum wage, there the public burden has been doubled and the minimum wage has barely increased. The consequence of this, Prime Minister, is that the Hungarian people are emigrating. Not because they don't earn wages in Germany, but because they don't come out from month to month and struggle to pay their yellow checks. I ask you once again, Prime Minister, to eliminate the poverty of workers with these tax reliefs. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2016-10-03-180	Thank you very much. Prime Minister Viktor Orbán has the floor for a one-minute rejoinder.
u2016-10-03-181	There's just one more thing I need to comment on. I repeat that Fidesz and the Christian Democratic People's Party cannot accept the systematic attack of foreign workers from opposition benches. I do not understand why people in Hungary are mentioned in a negative context who are working abroad with extreme difficulties and risks. [[Tamás Sneider intervenes. Dr. László Kács: We are at the level of Morocco.]] And they don't just work abroad, honourable opposition representatives. You can read yesterday's data: 1000 billion forints were sent home. Why are they hurting them? I would like to call on the opposition parties not to attack and harm Hungarian people who, for whatever reason, for all the reasons, have decided to seek bread abroad. [[Dóra Dúró: Why did they leave?]] and then they think about their country and send home 1,000 billion forints. These people deserve recognition and respect. Thank you. [[Applause from the benches of the governing parties. Interjection from the same place: That's right!]]
u2016-10-03-182	Thank you very much, Prime Minister. Congresswoman Rózsa Hoffmann, representative of the KDNP, wants to ask the Minister of Human Resources an immediate question: what has the government helped/supported the start of the school year? It's an address. The Minister appointed Secretary of State Bence Rétvári to respond to his urgent public mission. [[Dr. Hoffmann on Rose's mark:]] The congresswoman has already indicated that she accepts the person who is responding. Congresswoman's got the floor, please. [[15.10]]
u2016-10-03-183	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, Dear House, A month ago, the school year is beginning to begin, and it seems to be fading, but it is difficult to start the school year with melodies. However, there remains a contradiction which may be useful to clarify here in Parliament. More than 1.5 million students began their studies in the academic year 2016 and began their education in kindergarten, primary school, high school, vocational school and vocational school. It's a fact. It is also a fact that under the Public Education Act adopted in December 2011, all primary schoolchildren receive their textbooks free of charge in a system that has been maintained since then - this year means that the entire lower school receives a textbook free of charge, as well as the socially dependent upper school students or high school students whose scope is designated by law. It is also a fact that the government has never spent as much time eating children as our government has. This is HUF 71.74 billion in 2016. It is also a fact that this amount was only HUF 29 billion on the basis of the budget made during the last socialist government in 2010. It is also a fact that from September 2013, the wages of teachers will increase gradually, as laid down in regulations, and that the budget of the Klebelsberg Centre will also be restored. Dear Secretary of State, I do not understand why opposition representatives say that education is in ruins, that the government is not paying attention to children and education. Please help resolve the doubts of opposition representatives. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-10-03-184	Thank you very much. The answer will be given by Secretary of State Bence Rétvári. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2016-10-03-185	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Dear House, I think some of the opposition representatives are very remorseful because, in their time, the news was about how many schools are shut down. A total of 381 places were closed during their administration. There was news of how much less teachers work there. 15,000 teachers were dismissed, including from schools, the 381 that had been sealed on the door. The news was about how much the teacher's salary is going down. A monthly reduction in the wages of teachers in 2008 is the reason why they are looking for error in general and refuse to acknowledge these results. But we can also see from Jobbik's point of view that there will be no longer a SZDSZ education policy slogan that they would not accept and that their views on many issues relating to education have not been changed. On the other hand, we tried to turn the textbook market from a profit-making sector into a real public service, so we managed to reduce the cost of textbooks by 40 percent, but a good part of the family now does not have to experience it directly, because, as the congresswoman said, the first four, next year in the first five classes, everyone gets a textbook free of charge, not just those who are socially in need. In the area of children's meals, let me just say one number pair: in the case of the smallest children, 92 thousand children were given free of charge, now 318 thousand. No wonder the opposition also finds it difficult to catch children's meals. September 1 is the start of the school year for long and long years, but it is now the second year of the school year, since 2013 it is also the date of the teacher's wage increase every year. By Wednesday of this week, teachers will receive their increased wages again, the September wage, which will be paid by October 5th, will now receive it, and will again be higher, what they see in their bank accounts in October. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] as you've seen in August. Thank you very much, I'll continue from here. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-10-03-186	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. A one-minute rejoinder from Congresswoman Rózsa Hoffmann, Mr... Mrs. Here you go.
u2016-10-03-187	I didn't understand what the President said, but I guess he gave me the floor, so I have a few more seconds to answer. Thank you very much, Mr Secretary of State, for your answers. He listed the facts that we all know, know, and experience, and the people we talk to in cities and villages know this because their child is eating for free, and he got the textbook for free. Therefore, I still do not understand these opposition charges, which, in my view, are not true. However, I would like to respond to a subject, and this is the closure of schools, which have happened painfully during socialist governance. On the other hand, since 2010-2011, when the possibility of small schools was legislated, there was no need to close one school against the wishes of parents. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] And that's a huge achievement, so congratulations are all in order. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-10-03-188	Thank you very much. A one-minute rejoinder is for Secretary of State Bence Rétvári. Here you go.
u2016-10-03-189	Thank you very much for the floor. Instead of closing, I can now report renovations, maintenance, upgrades. This summer, gas and boiler maintenance and renovation took place in 203 institutions, doors were repaired at 181 schools, school painting took place at 616 schools this summer, gym maintenance at 71 schools, roof repair at 122 schools, toilet renovation at 205 schools. From 1 September this year, 21 958 new student chairs and 12 147 new school benches have been added to the schools, and 1329 new school boards are also available to students. It also shows that billions of HUF from own resources in schools that were previously tried to drain and close, we try to carry out renovations so that all children can learn from the most modern conditions in Hungary - we have many years of work to do. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-10-03-190	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Congressman Ákos Hadházy, representative of the LMP, wishes to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question: "Blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah. It's an address. Congressman Ákos Hadházy has the floor. Here you go.
u2016-10-03-191	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Prime Minister, I'm a little concerned because I've been wanting to talk to you for a very long time, even when I was working in your company. [[János Lázár: What company did you work in?]] Mayor István Horváth said that the boss cannot be reached; he cannot be reached - yet I can ask. [[Intercoms from the ruling parties.]] In some cases, for example, I wanted to talk to you in the history of traffic, and I wanted to talk to you when István Horváth and Deputy Mayor Rezső Ács discussed how they would overpriced a kindergarten. As a result, I would not have been looking for you, but Vice Mayor Rezső Ács told us that today EU funds are being distributed in Hungary by showing up, Szekszárd is a company in Budapest, saying that I have brought a project, I will arrange everything, I will win it for you, I will also arrange it, in return I ask that I win the project, and I get the money at the end. If you don't want this, it's no good, then I'm going to go to a city, because there's a quota here too, and I have a quota that I can share. My question, Prime Minister, is whether you believe that Rezső Ács has spoken the truth - since then - mayor, or if he has spoken the truth, does he continue to maintain that only the opposition is blaming corruption; that is what you are saying, isn't it? If, on the other hand, Ács Rezső lied, how should I evaluate these sentences, so that the allocation of EU funds in Hungary is done by having a company come down, he says that I have a project, I will write to you, I will win it for you, in return I ask that I be the contractor, and if not, I have a quota, I will go on with a city? Thank you very much.
u2016-10-03-192	Thank you very much. Prime Minister Viktor Orbán has the floor. Here you go, Prime Minister.
u2016-10-03-193	I would like to ask you, if such a company has appeared on behalf of the state, to file a complaint immediately. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-10-03-194	Thank you very much. One-minute rejoinder from Congressman Ákos Hadházy. Here you go.
u2016-10-03-195	Thank you very much. I filed a report, and it's happening. There are many things where you are already... [[Intercoms from the ruling parties. The president's ringing the bell.]] There are many things where the government itself has admitted that irregularities have occurred, isn't that how they say theft has occurred? In the case of the Roma self-government led by Flórian Farkas, the Hungarian government requests back 1.6 billion from the Roma self-government. I continue to ask whether, if you think there is money missing here, you will continue to maintain that today only the opposition is blaming corruption in Hungary. He did not reply to this whether he maintained his claim that today only the opposition is blaming corruption in Hungary.
u2016-10-03-196	A one-minute rejoinder from the Prime Minister, if you wish to use it. [[15.20]]
u2016-10-03-197	I didn't understand the question. May I repeat it? [[Noise. Dr. Ákos Hadházy stands up.]]
u2016-10-03-198	The house rules, Mr. Prime Minister, do not allow that. [[Interview from the Fidesz lines: Then say without a microphone!]]
u2016-10-03-199	Let's try it next week. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-10-03-200	Thank you very much, Prime Minister. Dear Parliament, Mihály Witzmann, representative of Fidesz, wants to ask the Minister of the National Economy an immediate question:. The numbers speak for themselves. Mr. Minister has appointed Mr. András Tállai Secretary of State to respond to an urgent public mission. I respectfully ask the Member if he accepts the person who is responding. [[For signal:]] Thank you very much. Congressman indicates that he accepts the person to whom he is responding. Congressman's got the floor, please.
u2016-10-03-201	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Dear House, I think that sometimes in our daily lives it is worth stopping for a minute and taking into account the results that we have achieved together, primarily in the field of the economy. The HCSO has recently updated data on recent years, which can be instructive to all of us, fortunately in a positive sense. It is clear from the data that the continuously growing Hungarian economy has been a particularly outstanding performance in 2014. The increase was already 4%, higher than the previous values. In 2015, the state's indebtedness continued to decline, as public debt was achieved at 74,7 percent of GDP and the deficit was 1.6 percent of GDP. This resulted in a better value than the 2 per cent previously reported. Continuing the line, we are happy to say that the budget will continue to go well in 2016, as the deficit was only HUF 274 billion in August. There has been no record of such a low deficit in recent years, and according to the figures, the deficit seems to be lower than the government's target of 2% this year as well. It is also encouraging that the number of people employed is once again 3.2 percent higher, currently around 4 million 386 thousand people. The domestic primary labour market contributed nearly 130 thousand people to the overall increase of 135 thousand people. In the meantime, unemployment has fallen below 5% and this low rate has not been measured in Hungary since the change of regime. However, the most important figure is that, since 2010, unemployment has fallen from almost 12 percent to around 4.9 percent. As a confirmation of good direction, we can also interpret the fact that on 16 September the Standard & Poor - s credit rating agency classified Hungarian government bonds as investment category. I believe that the favourable economic processes I have mentioned adequately demonstrate that the sometimes irregular economic reforms that have been attacked by many have indeed worked and that it was worth taking on the fight in this regard. I respectfully ask the Secretary of State where the positive effects of continuously improving economic performance will be felt in people's daily lives. Thank you for your reply. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-10-03-202	Thank you very much, Congressman. As I said, the answer will be given by Secretary of State András Tállai. Here you go, Secretary of State...
u2016-10-03-203	Mr President, Dear...
u2016-10-03-204	Excuse me, Congressman, let me finish - you have the floor. [[Defiance.]]
u2016-10-03-205	I'm sorry. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, Hungarian economic policy is effective. [[Defiance.]] The success of the government's economic policy, as you said, Congressman, is proven by the numbers. The most important of these is the measure of economic growth. If economic growth is good and sustainable, then there is job, there is tax revenue, there is everything. Economic growth in Hungary was 2.6 percent in the second quarter. We can truly appreciate this success if we compare it to an international perspective. The rate of growth in the European Union was 1.8 percent on average, i.e. in Hungary it was one and a half times as high as in the European Union. Counting the rate of growth, we have achieved the second fastest growth. But if we look at economic growth in a larger perspective, for example compared to 2010, we also have significant results there, as we can see that the rate of growth exceeds 10%. But if we compare it to 2014, there is also a 6 percent increase. Another important indicator, which you mentioned, is the evolution of the unemployment rate in Hungary. We talk about it very little, but it has to be said that in Hungary labour market activity has improved the most in the European Union, i.e. most of our countrymen have returned to work in Hungary. For example, one number: the number of participants in the labour market increased from 54,9 per cent to 63,9 per cent. If we compare this with the neighbouring countries, then we can see that Hungary's performance is outstanding on this issue as well. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-10-03-206	Thank you. I give the floor to Congressman Mihály Witzmann for a one-minute rejoinder.
u2016-10-03-207	Dear Secretary of State, Thank you very much for your reply. In relation to what has been said earlier, I would add that according to Standard & Poor, between 2016 and 19 Hungary's GDP could increase by 2.5 percent on average instead of the previous 2 percent. The same credit rating agency also recognises that the vulnerability of the country and the domestic financial sector has also been significantly reduced through a positive balance of payments, a strong decline in the foreign exchange ratio of the public debt and the self-financing programme. According to their expectations, in addition to current developments, the debt-to-GDP ratio may decrease to below 70 per cent by 2019. According to KSH, last year's GDP rose by HUF 287 billion to some 33 999 billion, but an increase of between 30 and 220 billion was observed in the previous years. In the context of employment, I think it is important to stress that there is already a shortage of labour in certain sectors, such as Balaton catering. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] I think that these will also be eliminated by continuing the development of vocational training, by wage increases for employers as far as possible and, of course, by demographic solutions. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-10-03-208	Thank you. Mr. Secretary of State will be rejoined. Here you go.
u2016-10-03-209	Thank you, Mr. President. Honourable Congressman, In the moment, I would like to stress that the figures convinced not only the players of the Hungarian economy, but also the international institutions and investors. Thus, among other things, the IMF, the IMF, who has been thanked for its services in 2010, has a particularly good view of the performance of Hungarian economic policy. But the official rating has also arrived, as in May and September, two international credit rating agencies have added Hungary to the category recommended for investment. This is a very serious saving for the budget, but what is more important is that it attracts investors to Hungary, Hungary is claimed to have a credible, predictable and sustainable economic policy. I also think that Hungary's economic policy prospects are good. Thank you. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-10-03-210	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Member László Szakács, representative of the MSZP, wants to ask the President of the Hungarian National Bank an immediate question:. What else? It's an address. Congressman László Cook has the floor. Here you go.
u2016-10-03-211	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. President. Failure, failure and scandal. This is what is characterized by the Hungarian National Bank. [[Noise, uproar, interruptions from the Fidesz ranks.]] in the past. In the beginning of 2015, in three months, under your supervision, three large financial service providers collapsed. It's not your job to investigate this, it was your job to prevent this, but you don't take responsibility. In our little country, Unortodoxia, economic policy is still not predictable, there are no extra taxes, temporary taxes, you do not give good advice, you do not raise your voice, all we know is that you have a lot of relatives; your cousins are not bad, and you even said that there are more than a hundred of them. [[Noise, interruptions in the ranks of Fidesz.]] However, I think that you have outsourced your extra profit from the HUFing of foreign currency loans to the Hungarian National Bank. He said it was gonna lose its public finances. You were wrong, you were wrong. That's what a court of law said. He said that these foundations didn't have to conduct a public procurement procedure. You were wrong, you were wrong. You're usually wrong these days. I would like to ask you now that you are unable to fulfil your responsibilities for financial stability, stability in the financial sector, your responsibilities for the transparency, predictability of the economy, but we see scandals, every month there is something new, whether you take responsibility or if there will be something new. [[15.30]] I won't bring her here, I will take care of the sanctity of privacy; this new love is here. What was the need? Why was that necessary? [[Defiance and interrogation in the ranks of the ruling parties. The president's ringing the bell.]] Why was it necessary for this to be in front of this House? Thank you for your attention.
u2016-10-03-212	Thank you very much. I believe, Mr Congressman, that you have put at the end a question that no one in this House needs to answer. [[Constant interruptions.]] But I will ask you to answer the beginning of your question, Mr President, whom I respectfully welcome. Here you go, Mr. President. You have the floor.
u2016-10-03-213	Mr President, Dear House, Honourable Congressman, As of spring 2013, you have been constantly attacking the National Bank of Hungary, the new management of the Central Bank, including the President of the Central Bank. They do this first with central bank policies: they attacked the base rate reduction, that it would become a big problem; it didn't, and it didn't. They attacked the self-financing program to make trouble; it didn't turn out to be a big success. The growth credit programme was attacked - [[Dr. István Józsa: No.]] Really? - that it will also be a big problem; no, it has become very good, 34 thousand Hungarian small and medium-sized companies have obtained excellent credit. You then, after that didn't work out, attacked custody. [[Dr. István Józsa: That worked.]] Why the supervision and the central bank had to be merged. Well, Congressman, for 15 years no one has noticed that a well-defined circle in the financial system has done ugliness. In 15 months, the combined supervision found the deceptions, exposed them, and saw the results. You then hit the valuer program to see why we should bring back valuables that have been broken abroad to Hungary. Then they realized it was a good thing, so they stopped attacking it. After that, however, they started attacking the central bank foundations. Here they introduced a clown, presented a series of bluffs, and after they'd been exposed, they went into private life. But you didn't say anything about that, did you? [[Defiance in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] What's next? It's going on. You are attacking Hungary, the Hungarian state, the government and the central bank, and we are building Hungary with families and companies. That's what's next. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-10-03-214	Thank you very much, Mr. President. A one-minute rejoinder, Mr László Szakács. Here you go.
u2016-10-03-215	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, I'll pick it up from where you ended, not with families, with a family. You said you had a hundred cousins. Somehow, they're always good for money. [[Intercoms in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] Somehow, they always benefit from it financially. They're sitting behind me, Quaestor-damaged, and those financial organizations... [[Defiance and interrogation in the ranks of the ruling parties. The president's ringing the bell.]] In the box.
u2016-10-03-216	My fellow Members, I ask you to be serious. [[It's constant noise. The president's ringing again.]] I would ask my fellow members of the Government to allow Mr László Szakács to finish his question. Here you go.
u2016-10-03-217	Thank you very much for your kind attention. I'll put it exactly: they're sitting in the box behind me, Quaestor-damaged. They were very happy to hear your words, and I'm sure you've reassured them now. Apparently, what you were supposed to do, you didn't do what you shouldn't have done. Speculating, investing in real estate by the Hungarian National Bank, trying to build a nest for companies fleeing from Brexit in Hungary now, and as Baron Chekonics with the money that remained in the MNB in Hungary from the forinting of foreign currency loans [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] You can farm any way you want. We're going to ask for that because they have a long statute of limitations. And we have a long memory. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2016-10-03-218	Thank you very much. A one-minute rejoinder from President György Matolcsy. Here you go, Mr. President.
u2016-10-03-219	Mr President, Dear House, Honourable Congressman, Dezső Keller lived and created a quite excellent conference in Hungary. He wrote a wonderful book called The Pest Ensembles. Fertilizers, you know, spreading bad news, spreading rumors, trying to keep the country from cheering up, from joy, from happiness. Well, Dezső Keller wrote that there's no need for them. I'll join him. [[Defiance and applause in the ranks of the governing parties.]]
u2016-10-03-220	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, This brings us to the end of the discussion of today's agenda. It is now time for the speeches after the agenda. I would ask Mr László Varju to have a few minutes of patience until all my fellow Members who leave the Chamber without delay in order to deal with their important official affairs are able to do so without delay. [[Noise.]] I ask my fellow Members, who must leave the Chamber now, to do so as quickly and as smoothly as possible so that we can continue our work. [[It's a short break. Several Members leave the Chamber.]] Thank you very much for your understanding and cooperation. Mr László Varju applied for a post-meeting speech with a title concerning the events of the last week. Here you are, Congressman, within a five-minute time frame.
u2016-10-03-221	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, I am convinced that emigration on the part of Members will be relatively accelerated if they have to listen to what they have done during the last week during the referendum campaign. But before I get to that point, I would like to draw attention to the fact that this is necessary because, for example, a fellow Member here this morning called attention to the fact that this false vote would have been effective if we had done this in another country. My fellow Members, if I could speak on the basis of existing house rules in another country, the House rules would have been able to answer the Democratic Coalition about Prime Minister Viktor Orbán's speech. But you stopped it, but you can't get away with it, that's for sure. Let's just put it this way. To answer a failed referendum with a constitutional amendment is a political scoundrel. When a government calls for a referendum, it asks the people for permission to do something. And the invalid reference means that the people have not given you permission, they have not given the Orbán government permission to continue their policies, and they have certainly not given you permission to amend the Fundamental Law. To openly oppose the will of the people, betraying the people is dishonest and immoral. Therefore, it cannot be ignored that the Prime Minister today, after the failed referendum, spoke about the amendment of the Fundamental Law. If the referendum had been valid, it would have been an obligation for the government, but since it has become invalid, the government cannot act on its own ideas without authorisation. So yesterday the people's will expressed that the government could not amend the Fundamental Law. According to the attitude of the Democratic Coalition, he has not been involved in the modification of the illegitimate Fundamental Law. And after the fall of the referendum, he will definitely not do that. The Democratic Coalition cannot in any way support the disregard of the Hungarian opinion and the proposal of the Hungarians. We also call on the other democratic opposition representatives to act in the same way and not to participate in the debate, negotiation and vote on the amendment of the Fundamental Law. In recent days, we could even say that the campaign that has taken place in recent months, however, carries features that need to be addressed. From May to the end of August, decisive public opinion research companies predicted participation of more than 50 percent. As a result of our campaign and campaigns launched in September at the end of August, one million people were reduced who wanted to express their views with their participation, and decided not to ask for a fake vote. [[15.40]] In contrast to the numbers in Orbán, which we heard this morning, a campaign of EUR 50,000 faced a campaign of EUR 50 million. That's why it was able to produce results. So once again, against the opposition's campaign of EUR 50,000, the government has spent EUR 50 million on its campaign. It's time for you to settle the huge amount of wasted money. It is time for the Fidesz mayors who campaigned with the money of the city and the village to draw the conclusion, pay back this wasted money, and do not be nominated in the next elections as requested by their party president. As opposed to Fidesz's public propaganda, this situation is also evidence that its opposition policy strategy and attitude have been effective in this regard, and that is why people have made the right choice to stay away. Finally, I would like to draw attention to some of the government's behaviour to be investigated. You were characterized by lies, hatred and intimidation when the Hungarian Television expressed everything understatement. It was about hatred, which appeared in many cities, and it was unfair when government and government officials were encouraged to campaign. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Dr. István Józsa applauded: Yes!]]
u2016-10-03-222	Thank you very much. He applied for a post-meeting speech:, How many trees do you want to cut until the elections in 2018? Ms Erzsébet Schmuck, Head of the LMP Group. Here you go, Madam Group Leader.
u2016-10-03-223	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, The Orbán government has cut over 500 healthy trees from the territory of Budapest in the last three to four years, and until the 2018 election, an entire forest of 3,000 trees is expected to be destroyed if the insane government plans are implemented. There is no reasonable explanation for the unprecedented logging throughout Europe, but there is a reason: the current power in the capital and in other cities of the country regards green areas as a building site, considers trees to be a disadvantage to investment, and refuses to acknowledge that the right to a healthy environment is a constitutional baseline which cannot be called into question by any political trend. When we talk about trees, we always think about people: the city dwellers and the many ecological services that trees provide in the city. Dezső Radó - perhaps very few know him - one of the legendary figures of the Hungarian green movement and the former director of the Metropolitan Gardening Company, said that the house only creates the impression of human residence with wood. The trees bind carbon dioxide and emit oxygen. An 80-year-old tree can cover the full oxygen needs of an adult. The trees humidify the air, dedust it, and cool the air up to 6-7 degrees compared to the environment with the combined effect of vaporization and shadow. They contain the noise, the canopy repels some of the sound waves, reducing the noise. If we were to quantify all these benefits, it would turn out that every living city tree is worth millions, not just in theory. In woody street, near trees - covered parks, the apartments are more expensive not by accident, but because you feel well in a woody environment. Every sober man knows that, only the government's representatives pretend they haven't heard from him yet. In recent years, more than 200 trees have been cut from Kossuth Square unnecessarily and senselessly. All the trees of József Rádor Square were destroyed for a private parking garage. So far, a hundred healthy trees have been removed from the high tide beach. In Orczy Park, 140 trees have fallen victim to their previous activities. These barbaric genocides have already been carried out, but government plans are even scarier. In the area of the Roman Coast 1500, in the City Park 600-800, in the Orczy Park 130 more, on Etele Road 175, at the Gül doll's turbee 50, in Nagymező Street 34 trees will be killed in the near future. Most reasons are ridiculous. In Kossuth Square, for example, dozens of trees in perfect health were cut down by reference to the disease of the trees, while the few linden trees left at the Kossuth statue were barely vegetation. At the Gül baby's turbine, they want to arrange a tree slaughter on the grounds that the birch trees there do not fit the Mediterranean atmosphere of the future Turkish garden. However, such justification is not known in the same way as in the relevant regulation, which is the highest law on the treatment of public crops, and in the urban environment, the fact that there may be invasive plants is not a proper legal basis for the grubbing-up of non-native trees. The government is repeatedly violating the Constitution, the Environmental Law and the said regulation through systematic logging. The proper practice for the rapid liquidation of the trees was also established, since the V. district government office, called for to do so, will issue a permit in the afternoon, which will immediately rise to legal force, regardless of the obligation to post and any appeals, and the trees will be cut out by dawn in a evacuated area before the public can come to their senses and protest. They act like thieves walking in the dark - not residents, but those responsible - and treat people when they steal a healthy environment and quality of life. It's only a year and a half, 18 months until the next election. In the capital alone, nearly 200 trees per month can fall victim to the government's blindness. It is now time to consider whether this is what people have been asked to do, whether they have been given authority, whether the healthy environment is worth more, or whether the concrete cast into the trees and the billions put in their pockets during the wood-destructive investments. Thank you very much. [[István Ikotity applauds.]]
u2016-10-03-224	Thank you very much, Madam Group leader. Tamás Vargha, State Secretary, responds to what has been said. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2016-10-03-225	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Dear House, There is only one sentence in the Member's speech, I think, with which we can all agree, and that is that every tree is of great value. But his speech also contains incorrect findings in his groundwork. He paints a dramatic picture of the destruction of trees, including the destruction of the trees of the City Park. But if you'd like to take a look at the crime scene, you can see that there is a renewal of the Liget and the elimination of decades of neglect in the City Park. [[Erzsébet Schmuck: Yes!]] I do not know if the congresswoman knows the extent to which our ancestors have allowed the wood stock of the City Park to be destroyed. Today, Városliget is like an open - air hospital, more than 80 percent of the tree population is sick or needing care. And that's not an excuse, it's the definition of professionals, of course. Városliget is not only a public park, but also a urbanistic and cultural phenomenon. During this development, the green area of Városliget will increase significantly from the current 60 to 65 percent. So, I think we cannot talk about destruction, and we will not only have quantitative but also qualitative renewals in the City Park. There will be a design competition for landscape and garden design, which was prepared in cooperation with the Association of Hungarian Landscape Designers. There are 6465 trees in the City Park. Of these, 143 are life-threatening and accidental and should be cut immediately, that's 2.2 percent. Unfortunately, 606 pieces to be cut within 5-10 years, in poor condition, is 9.4 percent. In addition, there are 73 stumps. This is 1.1 percent, the percentage of trees to be cut out is 5.6 percent, 364 pieces. The most shocking fact and number, I think, is that 85.2 percent of trees need 556 pieces of care in the City Park. A total of 137 healthy trees are found here. This is only 2.1 percent of all trees. If you truly believed that there could be another policy, you would accept the position of more than 80 prominent intellectuals supporting the renewal of the City Park, that we believe that there are responsible development programmes for the benefit of all of us, of the present and of future generations. We believe that the Liget Budapest project is one of them. Thank you very much for your attention. [[15.50]]
u2016-10-03-226	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. István Ikotity, Member of the LMP Group, notary of the Parliament, has applied for a post-meeting address from the LMP's group. Here you go.
u2016-10-03-227	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear House, LMP has often said that if we fail to reverse the current emigration process, we will be a country without grandchildren. We know from various statistics that in recent years, 5 to 10,000 people have left this country on a monthly basis. We also know that the emigration process shows an accelerated trend. It is no exaggeration to say that up to 150 to 200 thousand young people can leave the country this year. There is also a frighteningly high proportion of young people planning emigration. In a program called "Retúr" we have shown that two thirds of students are dealing with the idea of finding a job abroad. The main reason for emigration is that young Hungarians find that they do not come from one to the other at home: education, employment, access to housing, family formation; they have to face serious obstacles very often. We have talked a lot about these issues, but let's look at the other pan of the scale. What about young people who wish to return home? Two main problems need to be highlighted here. On the one hand, the government does not call young people back to Hungary. Last time Mihály Varga talked about the Hungarian labour shortage, he didn't even think to mention that hundreds of thousands of young Hungarians are working abroad, and perhaps by seducing them we could deal with this increasingly worsening labour problem. Mihály Varga would like to see European migrant workers at home instead of young Hungarians. But here we also mention the failed. Come home, young man! A programme that symbolizes the lack of real government action. On the other hand, let alone not calling young people home, but the current rules are a direct obstacle to their return home. The Hungarian state, it is not exaggeration to say that, makes life difficult for emigrated Hungarians who wish to return. Let us highlight two examples. First of all, if a person emigrated and announced his long absence and has no address in Hungary for at least a year, then he may be able to return very hard and expensively to the domestic social security system, it is quite easy to fall out of the insurance category. At this time, the very expensive special agreement with OEP will remain for more than 50,000 forints a month. Another example: one of the government's most important family support, the family home-building discount, and the CSOK are not often used by those who wish to return home, due to various administrative obstacles. This is about the impossibility of deadlines; it is simply not possible to obtain the necessary certificates from abroad in time. Let me quote a letter sent to us. One interested party writes: "We turn to you in despair, because a legal vacuum makes it impossible for us, like many other families, to record the CSOK as eligible families. For the past five years, I have worked in the UK without a break, first as an employee, then as a caregiver, which I have performed in a self-employed capacity. Due to the UK's circumstantial and time-consuming bureaucratic system, we are excluded from the possibility of Hungarian CSOK, since we cannot provide a proper certificate in time. We believe that this is illegal and illegal, because we cannot justify our relationship as a family that meets all the conditions, so we cannot benefit from the CSOK. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Dear House, According to the politics, it would be very important to at least remove these administrative barriers. You have to wait with open arms for anyone who wants to come home. Their reconnection to domestic social security should be possible immediately, and family support should also be available immediately. To this end, we have tabled a proposal to amend the law, the essence of which is that for every Hungarian citizen who has previously had insurance rights and who returns to Hungary after working in another state, it should be sufficient to justify 90 days of stay in Hungary instead of this year. This would ensure that those who really come home after working abroad are not unduly disadvantaged because of administration, but that this facilitation should not be used by others to receive benefits without paying contributions. We also call on the Cabinet to change the conditions for applying for a family home-building discount. Make it possible for those returning from abroad to apply for aid immediately. Problems with deadlines and certificates should not exclude anyone from the discount if they actually meet the conditions. We trust that you will take the appropriate steps. Thank you for your attention.
u2016-10-03-228	Thank you very much, Congressman. The answer will be given on behalf of the government by Secretary of State Tamás Vargha. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2016-10-03-229	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, The government continues to do everything in its power to ensure that Hungarian people, young Hungarians, imagine their future at home, and as a result, Hungary is now a better and more attractive place for a young person than it was in 2010. At the same time, we believe that it is natural for a young person to be driven by curiosity, the challenge is to try himself abroad, and those who work within the European Union do not emigrate, but use their right to choose a free place of employment and residence. An important achievement of the European Union and the right of EU citizens to work freely in other EU Member States. However, the current immigration policy of the European Union and the Left threatens not only the free movement provided by the Schengen system, but also the free movement of labour, because of the increasing terrorist threat and uncontrolled migration, nation states move towards border closure and labour market restrictions. The European Union's labour market needs must be met not by immigrants, but by strengthening the free employment of EU citizens. At the same time, Hungary is on the right track, since we have halved the unemployment rate of young people. Government employment programmes focusing on young people in recent years have enabled us to make significant progress in supporting home creation, especially in the Action Plan for the Protection of Jobs and the Youth Guarantee Programme. In addition, success can be reported in the reference to wage catch-up. According to KSH data, between 2010 and 2015, real wages, taking into account the impact of the family discount, increased by an average of 15.4 percent at national level, which almost doubled GDP growth. And this year's start was very strong, the average gross wages were 5.9 percent above the levels a year ago, which was unprecedented 10 years ago. In the first 7 months of the year, the increase in net earnings, due to a reduction in personal income tax by one percentage point, was over 7.5 per cent, so it is not true that we keep wages low. Thus, the Youth Guarantee Programme, which is a comprehensive system aimed at improving young people's lives and reducing their unemployment; or the action plan for the protection of jobs, which entered into force on 1 January 2013, and whose beneficiaries are disadvantaged workers from a labour market perspective; or the, Young farmers' programme aimed at curbing migration from rural areas, which mainly affects small villages, peripherals and the eastern part of the country; or the largest home creation programme of recent decades, which significantly contributes to improving the housing conditions of young people and can contribute to family planning in Hungary, thus keeping young people at home. So these programmes all contribute to enabling young people to find opportunities here in Hungary, and these programmes, of course, eliminate administrative barriers during continuous review. So we can say that the government is on the right track, and Hungarian reforms also work in this area. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2016-10-03-230	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Congressman Márton Gyöngyösi, representative of Jobbik:. German unit day: bridges to Central Europe instead of walls! He spoke with a title on the agenda. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor. [[16.00]]
u2016-10-03-231	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear House, Today, on 3 October, I would like to draw attention to the national celebration of Germany and its cross-border message, a state close to Hungary, and I would like to congratulate the German nation and the Federal Republic of Germany on today's anniversary on behalf of Jobbik. Twenty-six years ago, on 3 October 1990, the flag of the Federal Republic of Germany was first drawn up in front of the building of the Bundestag in Berlin, culminating in the public union of the two German states resulting from the division after the Second World War and starting a new joint construction. Twenty-six years ago, Germany commemorates the day of German unity on 3 October, with which not only one of the saddest periods in German history has been completed, but I am convinced that the fall of the Berlin Wall and the union of the two artificially fragmented Germanys have also meant the end of the Cold War for the world. We Hungarians were also with the German people in the moments of fragmentation, as our western borders were also closed by the same iron curtain that separated families and friends from each other in Germany and Berlin for decades. In these difficult times, we considered the German people as friends. And when the time came, Hungary made an active contribution to the destruction of the Iron Curtain. We are proud that this has not only contributed to the collapse of the walls separating parts of a divided Europe, but we have also earned merit in the reunification of Germany. Germany and the German people appreciated our efforts at that time, and today, after 26 years, the events of that time continue to live in the memories of both nations, providing a solid basis for the most harmonious development of German-Hungarian bilateral relations. We are pleased that, while Hungary itself was faced with the difficulties of a change of regime, it could help the Germans who wanted unity, and only a few months later we could begin our cooperation as two free states. Of course, this could not have happened without the work of many German people, leaders, who believed in German unity, and believed that the division forced upon us by tyrannical power would once end. I would also like to take this opportunity to highlight specifically the work of the late German Chancellor Helmuth Kohl, who led the merger of the two German states to become the beginning of a successful historical era in which changes in other parts of Europe could not be used for the benefit of the people. Germany was united and became a guarantee of stability in Europe in the 1990s when stability in many countries seemed like a distant fantasy. Twenty-six years have passed since then, and although there are still traces of the distant memory of the former division between the eastern and western regions of Germany, it is safe to say that the German unity is one of the clear success stories of the end of the last century. This is the credit of the German people, which can be bravely and rightly proud of the successes of the years behind us. CHAPTER XX Unfortunately, the century has become a century of walls and fences separating people. We hope that the 21st edition of the European Parliament and the Council will be implemented in accordance with the principles laid down in the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and the Treaty I think that this message in Central Europe is perhaps more relevant and important than anything else today. The challenges of our 1,000-year history have proved that Central Europe's nations can only achieve lasting results and successes together, standing up for each other. At the same time, we saw what it was like to be divided. It is enough to think of the tragic 50s for all of us, when the countries of the Eastern bloc were ensnared by the desire for freedom and conscious citizens were on the streets for freedom. This is how it happened in Berlin in 1953 and in Budapest in 1956. Unfortunately, the tyrannical power then drowned our struggle in blood. Although there is no room for speculation in history, it is true that sometimes one remembers what we would have achieved if we had managed to stand together for a freer world here in Central Europe at the same time. That is why I am delighted to see the intention of joining forces throughout our region today, including between Germany and Hungary. I am convinced that in nearly three decades, our friendship has only become closer and has grown with more beautiful chapters. I therefore believe that I can rightly trust that our relations since 1990 will become even closer in the future. The Jobbik Movement for Hungary has repeatedly stressed the importance of Hungarian-German relations. We are convinced that without successful Hungarian-German contacts, Hungary is not successful and there is no successful Central Europe. In this spirit, I would like to extend my best wishes to the Federal Republic of Germany and the German nation on the occasion of German unity day. Thank you for your attention. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2016-10-03-232	Thank you very much, Congressman. On behalf of the Government, Mr Tamás Vargha, State Secretary, responds to what has been said. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2016-10-03-233	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, As Congressman said, Germany is celebrating the day of German unity today, on 3 October, for the 26th time. It is a German state and society holiday that is closely linked to Hungary, Hungary, as the strengthening revolutions of the Eastern Central European peoples created the preconditions for the completion of German and European reunification, and Hungary has made a decisive contribution to this. The opening of the Hungarian border fulfilled the process of which the previous historical stations were the workers' uprising in East Berlin in 1953, the Hungarian Revolution and War of Independence in 1956, the Spring in Prague in 1968 and the protests in Poland in 1980-81, led by Solidarity. The 1989 and 1990s are a turning point in Hungarian and European history. Hungary's role in this was highlighted not only in the elimination of the repressive regime in Hungary, but also in the destruction of the Iron Curtain and the Berlin Wall, in the reunification of Germany and Europe. Last year and the year before, we celebrated the quarter-century anniversaries of the opening of the Hungarian border and the realisation of the German unity. The joint events were attended by Hungarian and German public dignitaries. We welcome Chancellor Merkel's visit to Budapest in February 2015. The unity was strengthened by the commemorative meetings of the Visegrád Four heads of state and the German head of state Gauck in all five countries. The head of state visited Budapest, and together we remembered the legendary protests in Leipzig on Monday. The Hungarian government organized a successful cultural programme with the motto of the year of Hungarian-German friendship. The Hungarian-German relations were exceptionally strengthened by the opening of the Hungarian border to the East German refugees, which the German people did not forget. The memorial plaque on the wall of the Berlin building of the Bundestag, Reichstag, still proclaims the memory of the Hungarian border opening, the friendship of the Hungarian and German people. On the quarter-century anniversary, Germany emphasized Hungary's role in the life-changing events of 1989. Ambassador Liselotte Cyrus celebrated the day of the opening of the border in 2014 on the 25th anniversary of the opening of the border, which was the 3rd of October, and thanked the Hungarian people for the brave act before the quarter-century. In 2015, on the 25th anniversary of the German unity, Claudia Roth, Vice-President of the Bundestag, was the guest of honor of the German embassy at a ceremony on the occasion of German unity, where she thanked for the opening of the Hungarian border in 1989. So we can say that Hungarian-German relations have a rich past, a very diverse present and we believe that it has a long, active and friendly future. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2016-10-03-234	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Member István Szávay, representative of Jobbik, notary of the National Assembly, spoke before the memory of Gyula Gömbös of Vitéz Jákfa. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2016-10-03-235	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Eighty years ago, on 6 October 1936, one of the largest formats in Hungarian history died, but the Hungarian prime minister, Gyula Gömbös Vitéz Jákfai, deliberately demonized by Marxist and liberal history based on lies and semi-truths. As a Gömbös soldier, he fought the First World War with honor, and therefore, like other members of his generation, he was affected by the treasonous government of Mihály Károlyi, the Hungarian reign of communism, the country mutilation in Trianon and the serious economic crisis that followed. His ambition and desire for action quickly pushed Gyula Gömbös towards politics, elected in 1920 as the representative of the National Assembly of Törökszentmiklós. However, he left the governing party in 1924 because he considered it possible to rebuild our country only using internal resources, so he refused to take on the League loan and thus serve Hungary for the control of international capital. He founded the Hungarian National Independence Party with several of himself, including Tibor Eckhardt and Endre Bajcsy-Zsilinszky, more commonly known as the Racing Party, but after four years of opposition politics he agreed with Bethlen and returned to the ruling party. Between 1928-29 he became Secretary of State for Defence and then Minister for Defence, and from 1 October 1932 he became Prime Minister. [[16.10]] However, he could no longer complete his second term of office, tragically young, when he was only 50 years old, on October 6, 1936 he had a chronic kidney problem. Ladies and gentlemen, Leopold von Ranke, one of the 19th editions of professional history. According to its founder of the century, every age in history must be measured by its own standards. That is to say, it is forbidden to criticize the retrospective historical view of the past actions of our historical personalities from the present situation. In the case of Gömbös, this means that the content of his words and actions should be examined in the context of his own age. In addition, in view of his entire life's work, as we do in the case of Imre Nagy, who can be exalted from a bloody, attic-smelling communist killer like László Rajk to the martyr Prime Minister of the.56 revolution. Dear Parliament, Balliberal historians, however, read to Gömbös in order without any context or further investigation that he was a conservationist and anti-Semite. However, in connection with the conservation of species, Tibor Eckhardt and Endre Bajcsy-Zsilinszky, who, due to their later confrontation with Germans, were also highly respected today, led by the generational sense of life in the foundation of the conservation party, that Trianon, due to the communist reign of terror, the economic crisis that consumes everything and the isolation of foreign policy, was put in jeopardy, therefore, by all means, we must strengthen and protect our nation from melting and digesting. It is true that Gömbös initially wanted to weaken the influence of capital concentrated in the hands of Hungarian Jews, especially on speculative capital, while he wanted to strengthen the Hungarian economy with public loans. However, it is also a historical fact that the proportion of Jewish origins was outstanding between the leaders of the Soviet Republic and those of the Communist dictatorship, so the generation that survived the world war suffered a severe loss of confidence in Jewishism. In addition, it is important to stress that, going on the government, he stated in his programme speech on 1 October 1932: "And to Judaism, I openly and sincerely say that I have reversed my position. The part of Judaism that recognizes fate with the nation, I wish to consider him a brother just as much as my Hungarian brothers. But perhaps even more important is the historical fact that he did not take any discriminatory measures on grounds of origin, religion, or other, and died years before the first Jewish laws were born. Gömbös really met Hitler as the first European leader, but Germany, as it is now, was the leading economic power of Europe, whose markets were thirsty by Hungary on the brink of bankruptcy, especially the Hungarian agriculture. The approach was therefore based primarily on economic practicalities, and this is confirmed by the fact that the few knew that Gömbös, leading to the same goals, took diplomatic contact with the Soviet Union among the first from Eastern Europe. During his Prime Ministership, our country has recovered from the crisis and has re-established its course of development. Dear Parliament, Pál Teleki is now considered by a narrow spiritual circle as the stoner of the road to the Holocaust in Hungary, but a decade and a half ago this was not the case at all. I sincerely hope that the re-evaluation of the historical role of the former Prime Minister, who is leading our country out of the global economic crisis, as the basis for politicalising our nation's economic, social and cultural rise, and which highlights national self-interest and self-interest, will soon begin. The Jobbik Movement for Hungary believes that the seat of Gyula Gömbös of Jákfa is among the largest Hungarian statesmen in our national memory. Thank you for listening. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2016-10-03-236	Thank you very much. I'm asking if there's an answer. [[For signal:]] Yeah. On behalf of the Government, Mr Tamás Vargha, State Secretary, responds to what has been said. Here you go.
u2016-10-03-237	Thank you very much. Thank you, Mr. President. Mr President, Honourable Congressman, Dear House, Indeed, between the two world wars, Gyula Gömbös of Jákfa, a valet, takes his place among the decisive politicians in Hungary's history, who, after a short military career, stepped out of the force and took political action. His life, his political operation has already been partially processed with a biographical need, his government, his foreign policy activities and the programs of the party and the parties he led. His actual military career was very short. He started his studies at the Imperial and Royal School of Vienna in October 1912 and finished it in 1914. He then served in various positions in the joint forces and in the Hungarian Royal Army. During World War II, he won the third-class military Cross with the military decorations and swords, he was awarded three times with the silver military medal, twice with the swords on the military Cross, on one occasion he earned the bronze military medal, on the ribbon of the military Cross with the swords, and received the Charles Team Cross.1919. As of 31 May 1920, he became Secretary of State for War and then, as of 1 June 1920, separated from the actual service, decided permanently to pursue the political career. This career, the political career, is inseparable from the perception of the Hungarian history between the two world wars as a whole. As a Member of Parliament, Minister of Defence and Prime Minister, he has done a great deal for the economic and military development of the country, resulting in Hungary's economy catching up with the midfield of Europe between 1920 and 38. But of course, his activities were not limited to the Minister of War and to the development of the army, even though he had them at his heart all along. His programme highlights the assessment and appreciation of his career in international major policy from the narrowly taken defence perspective. It cannot be said at all that in recent decades society and the profession of historians have ignored their work with silence. They have done much to gain a better understanding of his politics, including his military activities, and to make him aware of the public opinion. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2016-10-03-238	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Z. Mr. Dániel Kárpát, representative of Jobbik: He spoke with a title on the agenda. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2016-10-03-239	Mr President, Dear House, Since March this year, more than 1,500 evictions have taken place in Hungary. And although, in addition to protestors before the Curia, a number of credit-damaged organisations and Jobbik's representatives also drew attention to the emerging social and social disaster situation, the government simply refused to address this issue in the shadow of the migration reference. In fact, we have come to the conclusion that when Jobbik made constructive professional proposals, such as the transfer of a mass, state-based home-building and rental-building programme, the Fidesz faction issued a communication that was based on the fact that the idea of a social-based housing programme in the shadow of the migration austerity is particularly dangerous. We found this expression very rude and rude, yet we have often suggested solutions. But now that we are beyond the reference, Fidesz-KDNP has no objection to why it refuses to put young Hungarians in a position, why it refuses to put those who are about to evict them or who have already been evicted. After all, the lack of real estate available, the lack of apartments and homes is simply creating an impossible situation. Many have no place to live, yet others have to pay rents that cripple the family register. It's enough to think about the rental prices in Budapest or the metropolitan areas. And it is simply impossible for the government to answer a very clear economic problem in six years. As far as Uber is concerned, this government has done something so messed up and messed up, but not at all in Airbnb and other areas. When we see real estate being removed from the rental market, the government seems to be doing nothing, allowing prices to go free, while obviously Jobbik does not want to ban the community economy and its assets, nor do we want Hungarian young people and metropolitans to pay the price of the property shortage and the lack of housing under unregulated conditions. At the same time, there would be an opportunity to react, to deal with all of this, since, once again, there have been over 1,500 evictions since March alone. Compared to previous years, this figure was 700 in 2012 and 550 in 2013. That's not a lot. That's a lot of impertinence, but compared to the current data, we have to say that even if we don't cry back that time, it was more manageable than it is now. You can see that without a comprehensive rental program, the time bomb that ticks in the Hungarian economy and in the lives of families will not be deactivated. After all, we are talking about 140 thousand former foreign exchange-loaners who cannot repay their debts fairly. The government carried out an unfair settlement where the banks were credited with the Hungarian citizens' money. Obviously, Jobbik is trying to get it back. [[16.20]] But what we can see is that there is an amazing problem, because the conditions for private bankruptcy are so harsh that it cannot help families widely, the National Asset Manager cannot help enough families even if it takes away property from people, and we see that even in the case of CSOK and other measures, the government saves small work, for example, in the case of our countrymen who live abroad and, where appropriate, can be lured home, who wish to take a CSOK or similar discount, this government has not done enough to agree the tax year with Great Britain, so who, say, works there as a Hungarian self-employed person, cannot, in many cases, put the documentation necessary to obtain the discount on the table, so it is left out of the beneficiaries. We therefore call on the government to intervene in this area. In addition, the draft VAT reduction that has been launched at better pressure should be extended to include renovation, so that at least those who have the money and have the space to expand, where appropriate, to have another child in the wider living space, can do so. And it is quite simply impossible to claim that, in the shadow of migratory austerity, these home-building measures are not being taken. I would like to stress that the number of evictions is expected to be brutally boosted, the government ignores the socio-social disaster situation, and it would therefore be logical for all bona fide victims to order a moratorium on eviction in time until the government resolves the problem. But what we can perfectly see is that the resolve of the government is at a pitifully low level on this issue. Therefore, we call on you to immediately detect the problem and start something in the area of home creation, because you cannot politicalise for two years in the shadow of the quota hierarchy, there are day-to-day meat problems that cannot be resolved without solving the problems of this country. Thank you for your attention. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2016-10-03-240	Thank you very much, Congressman. The discrimination of Roma in Hungary has become systemic? Mr László Teleki, Member of the MSZP Group, spoke after the agenda. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2016-10-03-241	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear Parliament, I am not asking this question, but the Commission of the Council of Europe, which prepared a report on the situation of Roma in Hungary and found that discrimination against Roma has become systemic in the country. This question is interesting because many times it is said that the opposition is just preaching, says its own, and it is its job to make criticisms, but they are never constructive. I would like to draw the government's attention in a constructive way to the fact that there is a very big problem in Hungary today. The members of the government and the representatives of the government are all over the country, and it seems that we do not see the same thing we see as opposition representatives. I am saying this because if they really took what was happening in this country seriously, they would have taken various measures already. I would like to talk about three areas that are also included in the report, namely: on the part of the report on education segregation, I would like to highlight two things. One of them is that the number of children in special education is large and especially the Roma, but the families of the families of the disadvantaged are also given special education because there is not really a set of criteria to send these children there. Therefore, the government's education policy must be able to make sure that children who receive special education are really only those who need it, rather than the social situation that determines whether or not they are there. So the level of knowledge determines the existence of participation in special education. Second, it is very important - and this has been mentioned many times in this House - what levels of discrimination are taking in Hungary today in terms of the situation of Roma education. It can be said that there is a direct segregation and there is an indirect segregation, which is about if it is created directly, when a lot of people want it, and there is indeed a segregation of the child; while there is an indirect way when a child is taken from smaller settlements to larger settlements, and this is how segregation occurs, which I do not think is good for anyone, but is not good for the children and parents who go there. Therefore, if they want the segregation of education to be eliminated, both things need to be addressed, one because they should not be allowed, and the other, that if they are, if they are, to take the wealthier children away from different settlements, they must find the form, the financial and professional opportunity to keep good teachers there, who are trained teachers, and how they can be made in infrastructure, and in other instruments. Therefore, the government must take a very important step towards eliminating segregation. Another, which has also been discussed in this report, is the housing situation of the Roma. He also mentioned here what was also mentioned many times between the walls of this House, the elimination of Roma settlements. There are still around 600-650 gypsy colonies in Hungary, more than 100,000 living in these conditions, which can be lived there, and the end of which is encoded is that these people will line up for social assistance for decades and generations. Does the government intend to produce these young people, children, over and over again for aid, or to provide them with a serious education, get them out of that housing situation, provide them with education, and then, in employment, may they be able to take their own place? I therefore believe that it is absolutely important for the government to deal with the situation of housing. The third, which was also discussed in the report, is the possibility of access to health care. As we know, it is not just Roma. In different geographical areas, and especially in Eastern Hungary and North Hungary, it is seen that fewer and fewer doctors undertake to practice in areas where there is a very serious problem. As a result, what assistance do you intend to provide to doctors who would practice even in areas that I have listed so that as many poor people as possible can receive equal medical care? Thank you very much.
u2016-10-03-242	Thank you very much, Congressman. On behalf of the Government, Mr Tamás Vargha, State Secretary, responds to what has been said. Here you go, Secretary of State. [[16.30]]
u2016-10-03-243	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, Honourable Congressman, In full compliance with European traditions and guidelines, we have repeatedly stated in the new Fundamental Law of Hungary that we regard the protection of human dignity, the fight against prejudice, discrimination and social separation, the enforcement of fundamental human rights, the fight against hate speech and exclusion as an unmotivated principle. In recent years, the government has paid particular attention to combating racism and discrimination, with all the necessary legislation, institutions and tools at our disposal. The current anti-discrimination law provides for uniform, comprehensive and detailed requirements harmonising European Community law. In addition to the general provisions, the law also deals with the detailed rules for the enforcement of the requirement of equal treatment in different areas - employment, social security, health, housing, education and the use of services. This law also prohibits direct and indirect discrimination. Since 1 April 2013, with the amendment of the Fundamental Law, the concept of social catch-up has been introduced: Hungary helps to achieve equal opportunities and social catch-up by means of special measures. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. With a government decision in 2012, the Government established the Human Rights Task Force as the government's proposing, consulting and advisory body, with the participation of civil and public actors, a thematic working group was set up. Such a working group is the Thematic Task Force on Roma, which is a body specifically dealing with human rights issues affecting Roma. As a local level leg of the catch-up policy, a legislative background and a professional support system have been established that underpins the new system for the preparation of local equal opportunities programmes. As a result, it is mandatory for all municipalities to prepare their programmes because they can only apply for development resources if they exist. The results of initiatives launched in recent years can already be measured by data. In 2015, the proportion of those at risk of poverty or social exclusion was 28.2 percent, which is 3.6 percentage points lower than before. The greatest improvements are among children and young people, large family members and single parent households, and the lowest, most basic, and those with work. In the case of Roma, the proportion of people living in households with very low working intensity has fallen by nearly half in two years, from 45% to 27%, according to KSH data. Early school leaving also decreased slightly, from 11.8 percent in 2012 to 11,6 percent in 2015. From 2015 the mandatory and free kindergarten and the free four-day day kindergarten meals were completed. For the first time in the history of Hungarian public education, nationalities, including the Roma-Gypsy culture, opportunities and problems of coexistence appear in the National Basic School. A policy strategy for housing management has been developed in order to ensure a uniform approach to housing catching-up tasks for settlement programmes, starting from several operational programmes during the EU support period 2014-2020. Under all circumstances, the Hungarian government opposes segregation, finds it unacceptable to separate the disadvantaged and the cumulative disadvantaged, and has taken a number of measures to prevent or reduce segregation. It has created the anti-segregation round table, which has been meeting regularly for years, and its next meeting will now take place in October. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2016-10-03-244	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, This brings us to the end of the speeches after the agenda. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that the next autumn session is expected to take place on 10 October 2016. Thank you for your work. Good evening to all of you. I'll close the meeting with this. [[The meeting ended at 4:32 p.m.]]
