u2016-03-02-0	Dear Parliament, The 6th day of the Spring Session of the Parliament is hereby opened. I would like to inform you that László Földi and István Ikotity will be in charge of the meeting. Welcome to our guests and to all those who monitor our work. Dear Parliament, The 2011 CLXI on the organisation and administration of the courts follows. Act and CLXII of 2011 on the status and remuneration of judges. General discussion of the bill amending the law necessary for the establishment of the place of law of the district court until closure. The government referral is T/54. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. Dear Parliament, Allow me to extend my compliments to Mr. Peter Darák, President of the Curia, who has arrived at the hearing. And our guests who monitor our work. First, I give the floor to Mr Pál Völner, Secretary of State of the Ministry of Justice, the rapporteur of the item on the agenda. Secretary of State, you have the floor.
u2016-03-02-1	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Ladies and Gentlemen, The purpose of the bill before you is to establish a new legal office within the jurisdiction of district courts, if economic and legal rationality so requires. As is well known to you, it is necessary, under the provisions of the Fundamental Law, to lay down rules on the organisation, administration of courts and the status and remuneration of judges in a fundamental law. The Fundamental Law therefore restricts the scope of the legislator in such a case. This guarantee serves to ensure that only well-thought-out and strongly supported rules are included in the corpus juris. In my view, the bill that has come before you is well-considered and, therefore, I am convinced that it will become, as a result of the debate by Parliament, a law that has been announced with the utmost agreement. To this end, allow me to draw your attention to a few things. Ladies and gentlemen, Who would question that it is good for citizens and economic operators to judge their disputes as closely as possible? The district courts - in their former names local courts - fulfil this requirement as far as possible, i.e. guaranteeing the right of access to courts by establishing local courts at the seat of the district. However, if the options allow something else and, for example, because of a case or group of clients, there is a need to have a place in another city within the district where lawsuits are discussed and decided, why not contribute to it, why not help it? It is not excluded that several cities within the territory of a district are capable of operating a court. This will require expenditure, but it will also benefit from the right choice of disputes between its inhabitants, local businesses and its immediate surroundings. If the warranty conditions for judgment can be created, i.e. personal excellence and tangible assets, then, ladies and gentlemen, we can all be happy that the parties to the trial can save travel time and costs. However, in accordance with Article 21 (2) (a) of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011, the following definitions shall apply: In the 20th century, we strive for electronics and we are proud of our mobility, in the case of a court case, many still, especially citizens with limited or older mobility, may find it difficult to travel longer to enforce their rights. More informed and timely judgements can be obtained by simplifying additional local knowledge or even on-the-spot negotiations. If someone would say the opposite, that local relations would negatively affect judges, I would point out that the judiciary does not stop at the district court level, since the introduction of the place of law does not undermine the multilevel of redress system, which allows access to the court, the judge board or even the Mansion. Dear House, The bill merely creates the legal basis for the concept of the place of law as a new, a kind of assigned organisational unit. Therefore, there is no need to open a debate on which settlements do not have a district court, but whose statistical data or location characteristics would, in other words, deserve the establishment of a place of law. The place of law shall operate as the department of the district court, in the area of jurisdiction of the district court, without determining a specific area of jurisdiction. The extent to which the place of law acts, i.e. the manner in which cases are shared between the seat of the district court and the place of law, the distribution of cases must be settled. The bill does not undermine the power of the legislator to continue to make decisions on certain matters of law enforcement, professional or judicial organisation. In other words, if a legal place is to be established in the future, it will continue only if the new organisational unit is defined in a law on the name, seat and jurisdiction of the courts. I can assure you, ladies and gentlemen, that, by introducing the legal institution of the place of law, the requirements and objectives imposed on the courts, i.e. fast and customer-friendly procedures and legal certainty, are not violated, public confidence is growing, with social and economic benefits. The bill was also welcomed by representatives of the profession during the conciliation process. I therefore recommend the bill to the attention of honourable Members and ask for their support. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-03-02-2	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Now we're going to hear the speeches from the lead speaker. I give the floor to Congressman Vas Imre, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group.
u2016-03-02-3	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, In the framework of the reform of the judiciary, on 2 December 2011, the Parliament adopted the 2011 CLXI on the organisation and administration of the courts. Act and CLXII of 2011 on the status and remuneration of judges. Law. These laws have created the organisational framework that allows the procedures to be carried out efficiently and quickly. The period since then has proved that our efforts have not been in vain. As we learned from the first half of 2015 report of the President of the National Court of Justice, the number of cases completed was more than 31 thousand cases, i.e. 4.1 percent higher than the number of cases received, 86.6 percent of the lawsuits, so the vast majority of cases were completed within a year. The OBH also stated as a key strategic objective that access to courts should be simplified, so that the legislative proposal before us must have no other primary reason than to ensure that the judicial organisation system operates even more effectively in court proceedings and that first instance centres are closer to citizens. [[9.10]] To this end, the proposal provides for the possibility for the National Assembly to establish an organisational unit, i.e. a place of law, operating in a settlement other than the seat of the district courts, obviously primarily in cities. The proposal creates a legal basis for the new organisational unit, taking into account the different regions of the country. CLXXX 2010 on the name, seat and jurisdiction of the courts. The law - this law of jurisdiction of the court - will have to state which district courts the new department, i.e. the place of law, will operate in a settlement other than the seat of the district court. The place of law functions as a new department of the district court, the leading tasks of which are performed by a judicial staff member, the head of the group according to the bill. There is a legitimate question as to how cases are divided between the place of law and the district courts. The distribution of cases is determined by the so-called division of cases, for example on a territorial basis, which cases the district court negotiates at its seat and which cases it negotiates at the place of law. This also means that in places where district courts are in place, the situation of judges operating there is special, their activities are carried out both at the seat of the district court and at the place of law. Of course, a derogation can be made on the basis of the reasons set out in the law, and this is listed in the bill. The bill also states that if an application for a judicial position is issued for such a district court, it must also be recorded in the tender notice. In view of this, it is necessary to establish a special rule which will further strengthen its operation and ensure the development of organisational solutions. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, I'm asking you to support this motion. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-03-02-4	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr Gergely Bárándy, the lead speaker of the MSZP Group.
u2016-03-02-5	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Parliament, Dear Mr. Peter Darák, Mr. Secretary. I think it is interesting in itself that once again, without agreement, a two-thirds law is passed before the House, which, by the way, is at some point at the beginning of the cycle. If we look at his number, it's T/54. Bill No. 1 and for some incomprehensible, unknown reason to me, this has not yet come before the House. Now this bill will be brought back to life. It would have been nice if they had such an intention, at least to try to negotiate with the opposition parties. Because it has been proven several times that the kind of gambling that you are trying to control the functioning of Parliament and yet slip through two-thirds of the laws that do not exist without agreement does not work. That didn't work out so far. However, when you wish to pass any law on justice or on the structure of justice, or on the fundamental rules on it, and you ask for it - because unfortunately now, unfortunately, from your point of view - to support the opposition, I think there must be certain preconditions; at least there are certain conditions on our part. The reason why it is not worth talking about the current bill before us now - at least I consider it unnecessary - is because until certain preconditions are met, I would like to say to you on this subject, no bill will be supported by the Socialist Party. I would like to say two of these preconditions. One is that when such laws are discovered, let us put on the table the rule and change the rule that the President of the National Court of Justice may declare tenders to be ineffective without objective criteria and the obligation to state reasons. Until we change that, we will not support a bill on justice, which is two-thirds. This is an exception in the system of court organisations, which - before many of these, but fortunately, as I have said, 80 percent of the judicial reform has failed - remains of this and I do not consider it a rule of law. And not only am I saying this on a principle basis, but unfortunately the practice has proved that the President of the OBH is taking advantage of this opportunity, but we also see that he is unfortunately not using it, but is using it. There are a number of cases when you look at the appointments and how they happened, you see that you declare applications for certain positions, such as county executives or forensic leaders, ineffective; then, after one or two rounds, you appoint someone who applied for that position, just not in the first or second place, but, say, in the third or fourth place; and by assignment, temporarily, you put them in that position. That is what is untenable, fellow Members. And as long as the law allows you to do so, as long as you do not wish to change that, we will not, for our part, contribute to any amendment of the law relating to justice. I think that this change would otherwise be justified, and would be very justified. If you show us openness to discuss this, Mr Secretary of State, then I am ready to do this and I will be there for the five-party consultation if this is the subject. However, what I am saying now - before there is any misunderstanding - is that if only on this law they initiate a five-party consultation and are not willing to make another subject part of it, then we will not be there for the five-party consultation and we will not support the bill. The other is such a fundamental problem: this is what Mr Schiffer has spoken about the last day, if I remember correctly, in connection with the MNB law. It is quite difficult to take seriously their fundamental laws on the system of judicial organisation and, in particular, the sentences you say about the independence and effective functioning of the judiciary, as long as you intend to override final judgments by means of legislative acts last night. That's what happened with the MNB case. There was a final court judgment requiring the Magyar Nemzeti Bank to issue the data, and, if I remember correctly, one of its foundations. And in an exceptional procedure, i.e. two days as a law to be negotiated, a proposal will be put in place that, after its adoption, there will certainly be doubts as to whether this final court judgment can be enforced. But there have been cases before, which is what Congressman Schiffer has talked about. As long as you continue this exercise, you do not expect the opposition to turn around on your bill. To be honest, I would say nothing more now on this proposal, because once again, in order to be able to negotiate this proposal in substance, content and professional terms, these preconditions must be met. Until this happens, we and similar proposals will not be able to support it. Thank you very much for your attention. [[9.20]]
u2016-03-02-6	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congressman György Rubovszky, the lead speaker of the KDNP Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2016-03-02-7	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. I'm sorry, but my ore voice is lost somewhere. I would like to welcome the President of the Curia, Mr Honourable Secretary of State, and thank you once again, Mr President. Dear Parliament, I think it's a bit of an ostrich policy for the kind of behaviour the Socialist Party has now made public. My position is that when a bill is debated, at least the title of the bill or something should be given in a keynote speech. The Socialist Party, on the other hand, was only concerned that it would not negotiate until there was a government promise on other issues relating to the Organisational Law. Dear Parliament, I conclude from this that the Socialist Party has no objection to this law, because if it had, I would have assumed that it would have been formulated. The problem that is solved here by creating a place of law is an old problem, which is due to the fact that there is no and no court-martial in the territory of many of our walks. We call this law lex Rackeve among ourselves. All you need to know about lex Rackev is that in the area of the district of Kiskunlacház and the district of Ráckeve, the jurisdiction is linked to the Ráckeve District Court, and the aim is to bring the Kiskunlacháza, which, in addition to Ráckeve's population, belongs to the agglomeration and has a significantly higher population, closer to the citizens. That is why there would be a legislative place in Kiskunlacháza. On behalf of my party, I say in every way that we support this procedure. Returning to Gergely Bárándy's statement for one more sentence: I hope that we can sit down before voting on this law and clarify the positions on a five-party basis. I do not believe that this question cannot be decided on its own. We're solving the problems of tens of thousands, so I don't think it's a good thing to add to other conditions. I am not entitled to comment on other issues, whether pro or v, but I do not believe that this is relevant, so I do not want to discuss it. What do we want to achieve and what do we ask of this House? This is also the bill presented by Minister Tibor Navracsics, which was maintained by the government, and it turns out from the copy received that it was originally 13860, and the 54th number was given after the 2014 election, which means that the government maintained this bill of the old government and came into force. The problem is old, the problem should be solved, and this would not be a private Passion of Fidesz or KDNP, but a problem solved by a lot of people, a very large number of people. With all due respect, I would ask that opposition parties should accordingly revise their views and, if possible, support this bill. Thank you so much for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-03-02-8	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congressman Csaba Gyüre, the lead speaker of the Jobbik Group. Here you go.
u2016-03-02-9	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Mr. President of the Curia, First of all, I do not understand why this has not been submitted so far, because we can see from the current bill that President Rubovszky said that this was actually a bill passed from the previous term, and it is only numbered, so it has been submitted for at least three years. What I do not understand at all is where this has been for three years, why it has not been important so far, if it is so important and solves the problems of tens of thousands, why it was not important for the majority of governments to put this on the agenda and discuss it. I don't get it all of a sudden. That's one thing I don't understand. The other thing that my colleague Bárándy mentioned was that if this law is so important and solves the problems of tens of thousands, and otherwise it is two-thirds, then why there was no five-party consultation before that, why we did not sit down, why we were not convinced from a professional point of view. If the opposition is also needed in the case of two thirds, then let us be professionally convinced that this law is very important, that we will negotiate and adopt it. If there has been no proposal for conciliation so far, I can't place this either, if this bill really wants to solve the problems of tens of thousands. That would have been practically what I would have said before the agenda. Now, let me get to the problems with the law. If we look carefully at this bill and read its reasoning, then there is the first reason why this bill came here, and why this bill was drafted. There are two reasons for this general justification. What are these reasons? The operational experience of the courts is one of the demands of citizens, of the seekers of rights, the other. Again, it's a very general thing. We have not seen a professional proposal from the court that this is the result of their experience; we have not seen the proposal from the President of the OBH in this regard that she is proposing this on the matter of the judicial organisation. If they were like this, if the experiences of professional forums were laid down on our table, we would consider professionally whether this reason is really real. The following is the demand of citizens, the rights seekers. This is a natural need, and I can accept perfectly what is stated in the explanatory statement to bring justice closer to citizens, to simplify the possibility of dealing with cases. This is indeed a very good reason, it is very nicely formulated, but for my part I have not yet met these emerging demands that citizens, the seekers of rights, would like to create legal places. Of course, my 20-year-old lawyer experience applies primarily to a county, where I saw the operational problems, where I saw how to improve justice, but there, locally, at county level, I never experienced that it would have occurred at any time, either within the court organisation or on the part of citizens and law seekers, to create such legal places, so that district courts would not only negotiate at the seat, but also go to a settlement in another jurisdiction where they would be able to negotiate, but it is not the seat of the court. I'll tell you the truth, it's new. In itself, bringing him closer is a nice thought, and you could even agree with that. So when there's a list of reasons, I'm not convinced by the reasons at all on the basis of the general explanation. And the goal is a levitated principle that is virtually impossible to achieve. I mean, where can we get him closer to? If such principles are drawn up, we may, where appropriate, take them to the residence of the plaintiff, defendant or person in criminal proceedings, and then justice will be very close. So that alone is not a reason. [[9.30]] In Hungary today, there is a very well-functioning system that has been crystallized for centuries, which has so far passed the test. The district courts are set up so that they can get in by public transport. [[Dr. Vas Imre: Not everywhere...]] citizens to the seat of district courts, and in itself, if we look at this question professionally, from the operational point of view of the courts, I see that the exact opposite of what we want to achieve is going to happen professionally. The goal is to bring justice closer, so this part of the goal can come true. But what are the main goals? Obviously, the most important goal is to keep the faith in justice on the part of citizens; to ensure that justice functions in accordance with the law and that it works quickly. I think that basically this speed principle will be violated, because if we change the system of justice in such a way that we take it to a place of law enforcement, the functioning of the justice system, the district court, it will slow down the cases; it will result in problems of handling cases; it will increase the burden of the judge to a relatively large extent; it will involve extra travel, which will again result in a separate burden. You have to organize the judge's work in a completely different way, since you have to organize your cases for more locations. This will also be a major difficulty in organising negotiations, as, if, where appropriate, there are not enough cases in the case group that the judge is negotiating, this means that, if possible, he may have to travel 20-25-30 km away from two negotiations which he can complete in 1.5 or 3 hours; then he can no longer conduct a full trial day at the seat, nor can he, obviously, because he cannot, if it falls on the same day. That's gonna increase the judge's trial days in a month. That's gonna mean a lot more pressure, a lot more pressure. And then come the following problems, but from the inside, these are internal organizational problems of the courts. Then it is necessary to secure the proper courtroom, the service facilities, the waiting room, the bathroom, the judge's room, the court staff's room - who will provide the budget for this? How will these placements be resolved? So these are the problems that this bill does not answer. So we can't imagine how this is gonna work, how it's gonna happen? Will the government ensure that this budget is amended? Will you buy real estate for this purpose? Will he rent these properties, or will he increase the cost of justice, and he will have to take care of these tasks? So it's so in the air. This is the wording of a principle, which is included in this, that I say that the principle that is formulated here could be very beautiful, but there is no answer to these professional questions, these budgetary questions. The beautiful reasons are included, the purpose is included, but how what will be realized is not included. That is why it would have been extremely fortunate for us to sit down and say that this is what we want to do. [[On Dr. Vas Imre's signal:]] Yes, my fellow Member, Mr Vas Imre, is now reporting that yes, he initiated it. Indeed, a minute before the start of this item on the agenda, he did come forward, but I do not think it should be when opposition parties already state their position that they will not support this bill, but that it must be done in advance when we are prepared to look at this bill. We must try to convince us why we need to do this professionally. So this is a problem. And I don't understand, there's a big question I can't understand again. Then, if we see the need for new places in the current judicial system where law enforcement places need to be established, because there is so much social need for it, as President Rubovszky said, that it is necessary, because there are tens of thousands of demands for it to be there, in place, I can accept it, but if that is the case, why not establish a district court, why not a district court? Once again, it is up to the Ministry of Justice to propose that there is such a social need; to change the law on jurisdiction of the courts. We will, of course, support it without further ado, to establish new courts. We know very well, and we have talked about it many times over the years, in which settlements we need to establish a district court, and of course Jobbik will support this. But I don't understand why we can solve this in this form. And then I go back to the question of why we want to solve it now and why they waited two years, three years; then there was no social need, and now it has become a social need. So these questions, I think, should have been made very clear; we should have discussed them; we should have sat down, and then maybe we could support this bill. At the moment, I see that we are fully in agreement with the goal, but not with its implementation. So I'm looking forward to hearing what you can do to convince us. I believe that if there are appropriate professional arguments, which are indeed such as to adopt this law, rather than creating a new district court, we are looking forward to these proposals with open ears. What I see at the moment is that we cannot support this bill. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause from the benches of Jobbik and LMP.]]
u2016-03-02-10	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr András Schiffer, leader of the LMP Group.
u2016-03-02-11	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Before the one in front of us was T/54. I would like to talk about a bill with a number two, partly turning back to yesterday, and I would like to point out the prerequisites for LMP to negotiate any bill concerning justice in substance. First of all, I'd like to return to yesterday. Yesterday, Parliament passed two laws where it changed the substantive rule of law, namely the rules on freedom of information, by applying the changed substantive rule in pending cases, and the rule that Parliament adopted yesterday also comes into force in matters pending implementation. The Fidesz-KDNP majority hacked in Hungarian yesterday, in Hungarian: Fidesz made it clear yesterday that, using its parliamentary power, Fidesz intervenes in the work of the courts; interferes with the administration of the law; interferes with the implementation of final judgments. This isn't gonna work! To start a five-party consultation here and to tell you all sorts of professional reasons, until you have no shame in deciding on pending cases by means of legislation, there is no point in the world at all. But let's see what the problem is. It was practically an unquestioned principle in Hungary for 25 years, so that, as long as procedural rules can be introduced into the legal order with immediate entry into force, changes in procedural rules can also be applied in pending cases, this is not the case for substantive rules. And let's be clear, this is not purely legal, and it is not merely the delicate taste of the Constitutional Court or of various constitutional lawyers. It is nothing more than whether there is trust in Hungary, whether there is trust in Hungarian society, for example, in business. Let's face it now, in a country where the issue to be decided in pending disputes is decided by law at virtually any time who dares to take the risk. If, after 2018, Mr. Secretary, you go back to a lawyer, how will you advise on contractual matters or investments? [[Dr. Vas Imre is laughing.]] Maybe Imre Vas didn't have that kind of thing before, and then, I don't think it's funny at all. It's not funny at all! Today, I'm giving you advice on a matter of obligation, any investment case, and then, two years later, if there's a lawsuit, it turns out that we have to judge a dispute on the basis of completely different rules than the one on which the contract was concluded or the investment was made. What are you going to say, Secretary of State, as a lawyer after 2018? Well, you don't know. Even though a lawyer gives legal advice, even though he takes the facts, let's say, a judge at the beginning of the trial, it's possible that by the time there's a final judgment, a case that's come up years earlier must be judged on the basis of other laws. In order to have confidence in Hungarian society, to have confidence in business - and this is important for both foreign investors and domestic small and medium-sized enterprises and micro-enterprises - it is necessary that everyone in this country, poor and rich, foreign and domestic, can trust that if they act legally and legally today, their disputes will also be judged on the basis of the laws that they apply today. [[9.40]] If you make it a regular practice that no matter what laws apply today, if the interests of the national cynicism system so require, we will basically rewrite the underlying legislation, and in two or three years' time the court may decide on a dispute matter on the basis of very different rules, then anyone in this country will be a fool to take a risk. That's what they're playing with. They think their dirty business is being thrown away at the central bank and the Post Office; they're risking a lot more. They're putting business security and trust at risk in this country. Don't come here with two-thirds laws, laws of justice, until trust in the law is basically undermined. [[Dr. Csaba Gyüre applauded: Yes!]] Let's face it. This isn't just about freedom of information. It's not just about the central bank or the Post Office. You have done something that is not done on this planet in any civilized country: you are preventing the enforcement of final judgments by means of legislation, because Imre Vas and others here are smiling proudly, and it becomes a law. [[Dr. Gábor Staudt: That's right!]] How can a country like this otherwise conduct a business, and how can a country like this otherwise behave in compliance with the law? So the number one request, I think, from all opposition representatives, is to stop immediately saying that they are taking legislative measures to decide on pending cases. The second is that when this bill was last before the House - even during the ministership of Tibor Navracsics - it was already said that my fellow Member Bárándy has now confirmed that, in order to be able to negotiate a substantive amendment to the laws concerning the judiciary, it is quite simple to make it clear that the President of the National Court of Justice - whoever is to fulfil this office - cannot play with a self-defeated declaration of invalidity of tenders. That is why we are reiterating that the legal status law is 20. § (1) (b), (d) shall be abolished by the Parliament. I can show the Minister of State the harvests of the past period: the annulment of the application for the Presidentship of the Metropolitan Court; the application for a job as head of the College of the College of the College of the College of the Gyula Tribunal; and so on. And quite simply today, this section of the law, quoted in the Law on Legal Status, gives the possibility that the President of the National Court Office, who is currently Tünde Handó, can declare unsuccessful tenders on virtually non-partless terms - so even if they have found a suitable president on the basis of the tender. This is a thorn in the system that makes it impossible, once again, for citizens to trust that the formation of a judicial organisation and the assessment of cases are truly free of any subjective influence. I would like to stress that this is not about the person of the President, especially after a few weeks ago it was President Tünde Hando who was very brave to defend the courts against the government when Szilárd Németh was sent as a torpedo against the courts. But again, it's not about the President's person, it's about the system, it's about a principle. If there are once conditions for being a leader within the judicial system, then there is no need to give the President of the judicial office a discretionary, impartial discretion in the law, so that otherwise successful applications, where they have found a suitable candidate, can be declared ineffective. We also said in the debates of 11-12 that, in order for citizens to have full trust in justice, it is not necessary for the leaders of various parties - representatives, ministers - to stand up and judge the various judgments, and that is precisely against them. That's what you do, all the independent Members who are not here - because they boycott the parliament - do. [[Dr. Vas Imre is laughing.]] The problem is that trust in justice is shaken when matters can be brought about - there has been an experiment - or different courts may be appointed on subjective grounds. I believe that if this last loophole is closed by Parliament, so it is clear that it is not possible to machine it on subjective grounds in the appointment of court leaders, and that Fidesz-KDNP will cease to practice interfering with legislative instruments to decide on pending cases, or even to execute final judgments, then there is an opportunity to talk intelligently about what changes are needed in the administration of justice. As to the merits of the bill: first of all, I am very surprised at what my fellow Member, Mr Gyure, has also said here that our fellow Member, Mr Vas Imre, initiated a five-party consultation a minute before the debate began. Of course, the LMP is open now, as in every case, when they want to initiate a five-party dialogue on legislative issues and not on referendums, to sit down, to agree, but this is not the way, I would like to say. If the judicial portfolio brings in a bill, because, in fact, we have to consider it a step forward that the judicial wallet brought it in, not Imre Vas or Erik Bánki or Szilárd Németh [[Defiance in Jobbik's ranks.]] Then perhaps the judicial wallet - as has been the case in many cases during the operation of Minister Trocsányi - should have initiated a five-party consultation weeks ago. I will go further: this is a proposal concerning the closeness of operation and operation to citizens, where it would have been very necessary to learn about the impact assessment of the National Court Office, even because the legislative law otherwise requires such a thing, and at least the judicial portfolio should have complied with the legislative law. As I recall, former State Secretary Répássy and Minister Navracsics were the authors of this legislative law. So, in substance, it is not possible to negotiate, by the way, on a five-party basis, if we do not see the numbers, we do not see what we are talking about. The LMP also agrees that the legislation on justice should serve to facilitate access to justice for people regardless of their place of residence or type of settlement; so that people can have equal access to justice regardless of their place of residence or property. That's the goal we have in mind. If the establishment of these legislative sites were to serve this purpose, this bill could even be agreed with. But - and now, putting the preliminary terms in parentheses for a moment - it is not clear to me either, or I see no guarantee in this bill, and that is why a five-party consultation was good, how is it possible that this is the reverse? In English: is it not that you want to close district courts, and when a district court is closed, the seat of the former district court is returned to a place of law? Isn't that what this is about? Because when it comes to that, I'm sure we won't be partners. So I would like to continue to state: for LMP, this is the number one goal when we talk about the seat and place of jurisdiction of the courts, how to make access to justice more equal for the Hungarian people, regardless of their place of residence. There is no guarantee in this bill that it is not the stealth killing of existing district court offices. But if we ignore this highly malicious hypothetical opinion now, I still have a sense of absence, confirming what my fellow Member Gyure has said. So, if the goal really is that if there is a district courthouse, let us call it Ráckeve, and say they want to take the place of law, say, to villages in South Pest County or to Szigethalom, shouldn't there be any provision in the law that the most basic judicial function that affects citizens most directly, such as the operation of the management office, should be guaranteed? So we do not know what this will mean for the people if Parliament is now pressing the seal on this law. [[9.50]] There's gonna be a management office where I can file my submissions, can I look into the file? If appropriate, will there be legal aid in these jurisdictions? Not to mention the rooms in which this jurisdiction will operate. Are you renting this building from the municipality or from a company? I can't risk the fact that if we do so, the courts will be able to rent their seat from the Hungarian National Bank. So it doesn't matter, because, let's say, he rents the room from a local government, and in the meantime, let's just say, the same district court has to do the same thing. So there are a lot of questions in the air, now beyond the fact that in the Hungarian historical tradition the seat of the court had, so to speak, its own aura, its authority, was linked to a specific building, a specific city, it was linked to a specific seat, it also earned the proper respect and guaranteed to the citizens. But most importantly, it remains completely obscure what kind of services such a place of law will provide to people. I confirm once again that we are, of course, open to five-party negotiations, which should have been done earlier, we would like to see a guarantee of our concerns about the specific bill, and we would like to see impact assessments. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] and once again, we cannot talk about a two-thirds law of justice as long as specific cases are dealt with, and as long as the power of declaration of non-partisanity remains for the president. Thank you very much.
u2016-03-02-12	Thank you, Mr. Group Leader. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. As independent Members of Parliament do not take part in the debate, it will now be possible to make two-minute speeches. First, I give the floor to Congressman Vas Imre, Fidesz Group.
u2016-03-02-13	Thank you very much for the floor. I would like to draw my fellow Member Schiffer's attention to the fact that, with regard to the issue of data of general interest, the practice of the court was already unbroken that if the law had changed in the course of the lawsuit and in the course of the public interest proceedings, it was granted or judged by the court in accordance with the new law. I myself asked for data of public interest several times, say, in 2005, when the Road Transport Act changed, that not so much of a list of experts is public, that is all, and in the second instance, between the first and second degree judgments, the road transport law changed, and only according to the new legislation the judge judged the issue of data of public interest. [[Dr. Gergely Bárándy: The verdict is final.]] The other thing I would like to respond to is that after 2018, Pál Völner, I or András Schiffer, should continue their legal activities. Thank you very much.
u2016-03-02-14	Thank you very much, Congressman. For a two-minute speech, I give the floor to Congressman Csaba Gyüre, Jobbik Group.
u2016-03-02-15	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I was pressing a button because of Imre Vas's two minutes ago, because I see that he does not see the very essence of it, he does not understand the essence of what my fellow Member Schiffer has just said here. That is precisely the problem that my fellow Member Vas Imre has just said, that if Parliament changes the law on the move, it is natural for the court to consider the matter on the basis of the laws currently in force, and if the law has changed in the meantime, then it is natural that a different judgment will be given. But that's exactly the problem, that's why Parliament is personal based on the fact that here the majority, the two-thirds majority, which is already thankful to God, doesn't have it, but 50 percent plus one still has it... - compared to the fact that it changes the laws on the move to change the court's judgment personally, because it won't be able to make the same law anymore. This is precisely the legal uncertainty that comes with the fact that whoever has the majority, whether personalized or tailored, changes the laws for their own good, will have to be judged by the court. It is natural for the court to be able to do nothing other than to judge and take into account the Hungarian legislation in force, but that is precisely what causes legal uncertainty, that we will change it at any time on this basis, and that in pending cases there must be a different judgment than what society has before, which has developed, and that is exactly what my fellow Member has just said, and that is precisely the problem. It seems to me that dear fellow Members of the Fidesz do not feel the importance of this and the legal uncertainty they cause in the country. Thank you.
u2016-03-02-16	Thank you, Congressman. I give the floor to Congressman András Schiffer for a two-minute speech.
u2016-03-02-17	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, I would say to my fellow Member, Vas Imre, that, of course, I had a number of requests for data in the public interest before 2014, while you allowed the Member to become a lawyer, and the situation is that, if, even before 2010, - I note, because something was wrong before 2010, perhaps it should not have been the same with a big breast - if, before 2010, there was a substantive rule that had been put in place to apply to pending cases, then the court was forced to apply it. By default, however, in a request for data of general interest, it is necessary to see what rules were in force when the data controller received the request for data of general interest. However, I cannot disapprove of this practice. There have been some second-degree councils who have said that if the substantive rule is actually favourable to the enforcement of fundamental rights, and so has changed in a more transparent way, this more favourable rule should be applied. Once again, I would like to point out to my fellow Member, Mr Vas Imre, that this is not just about freedom of information; let us take a moment away from this. The point is that if, let us say, the company law or the capital market law, the Ptk. containing the basic civil law rules is changed so that, say, in cases that have been pending for ten years, final judgments can be brought into force or even enforced, because the changed civil law rule, the capital market rule, will be brought into force immediately so that even final judgments cannot be enforced, then who will invest in this country, risk out, take a risk, and who will trust in the power and enforceability of the legislation in Hungary. That's the real question! Thank you.
u2016-03-02-18	Thank you, Congressman. For a two-minute speech, I give the floor to Congressman Gergely Bárándy, the MSZP Group. Here you go.
u2016-03-02-19	Thank you very much, Mr. President. In addition to not repeating what my fellow Member Schiffer and Gyure said about the ongoing cases and legal certainty, I would like to draw Mr Vas' attention to a small difference that what they did yesterday was not about a court ruling in an ongoing court case, because you have passed a law, but you have already wanted a final final judgment and have overruled by law. There's a difference. It is not that the courts will have to act differently, but that the court has made a final decision, and you have not liked it, so that a law has been passed that what is in that decision will not have to and cannot be enforced. I do not think this is good, but if you like this, Mr Vas, I am curious about your arguments as to how you can prove that this practice is good, and as long as it is, I repeat, as Congressman Schiffer does, there is nothing to talk about here on the subject of justice, as long as you have this attitude on this subject. Congressman Rubovszky has obviously left for other public tasks, but I would also like to respond to what he has said for a sentence. So, maybe it's in the interest of tens of thousands, but it's in the interest of the justice system to function independently, but it's in the interest of ten million people, and until we see that guaranteed, I think it's a shame to deal with someone else. And once again, what Congressman Schiffer has said is that there is a principle on which this is based, yes, there is a principle on which, unfortunately, I see it, and he himself has given examples, but I could also tell others that unfortunately in these cases the practice shows that this instrument is being abused by the President of the OBH. Thank you very much.
u2016-03-02-20	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, We will now continue our work with speeches from our representatives. I give the floor to Congressman Gábor Staudt, Jobbik Group, within a 15-minute timeframe. Here you go. [[10.00]]
u2016-03-02-21	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, I very much agree with my fellow opposition Members before me, and I would also like to add some new elements, although it will be difficult, because much has been said. I would like to confirm a point or two of what has been said at the maximum level of mention. The proposal that lies before us may seem less important, we could say that it is only about walking courts. By the way, I would also like to confirm that it was rather strange to see Tibor Navracsics' name as author. To add, Tibor Navracsics may not be ready to take on this proposal right now. It may have been necessary to ask him whether his name could remain on this paper, and not necessarily because Tibor Navracsics was trained quickly enough on many topics, sometimes too quickly for his new job as Commissioner of the European Union, but what is in this, I think is quite realistic that he would not do it, especially not in the light of the events of the past period. As a guide, let me respond so much to Imre Vas, since we're talking about the will of the voters here, and what will happen in 18 who has to lawyer. By the way, I don't think Schiffer would hit Andras on the ground, if I may say so, if he had to live as a lawyer. I hope that it is true that all opposition and Fidesz Members of Parliament, legal representatives, would live outside the National Assembly; I am less sure of that, by the way. But I would like to draw your attention to one thing, and this could be the case for all the representatives of the Fidesz-KDNP present. We should not let go of the trend, and here we can think of the elections in Salgótarján, Ozd, that they created a situation where today the Hungarian citizens - except for the toughest Victorian block, where unfortunately we must see that there is often a picture of Viktor Orbán on the wall, obviously anything can happen there, the Fidesz voter remains, but apart from this block, it doesn't matter who they vote for, just vote against Fidesz, not Fidesz-KDNP. And it's not our activity, it's not the activity of the opposition, it's your activity. This is a very surprising and shocking thing that Ozdon voted for Jobbik's candidate without the sock of MSZPs, because it was able to defeat Fidesz, and in Salgótarján we saw that everyone who voted against Fidesz was happy to stand behind the left-wing candidate because it seems that they created a position in Hungarian politics that the most important force is not Fidesz. And it really hurts. Believe me, it hurts us the most that this happened, because it reflects the state of the country, the opinion of the people, about the laws that you make. Obviously, the laws are already being passed outside the National Assembly. There have been cases where the five-party negotiations have actually been convened; if Mr Völner is already here: when the electoral procedure law was technically brought before Parliament, it was a very good example. We were able to agree on our amendments, of course not fundamentally on the transcription, but on the technical amendments; Mr Secretary of State knows which law I referred to, well, in this case there was no problem, we agreed and supported. It would have been good if this proposal had gone on a similar path. It is never good to have a five-party settlement with the law before the National Assembly, and, as I said at the beginning, I think we should have rewritten the proposal a little bit, and, say, put it in the name of the new minister. I would also like to remind you that, regardless of what Csaba Gyüre said and what we have heard from the MSZP, LMP, that we should look beyond this proposal when it came to asking for our support in the immigration emergency, we supported it. This was about, if there were people following Parliament's work who were not so involved in this, that judicial resources could be transferred to meet the changed judicial burden and increased cases in the case of an immigration emergency, and that would be practically possible along the border. We supported this, despite the fact that there was not a perfect proposal professionally, he bled out of a thousand wounds, but we felt that the country was in trouble, that the court system with jurisdiction there could not provide for this work. We supported him. Now I don't feel that it's such an emergency that in the trouble of the home with the password can pass this through. This is all the more so, because just because it still has the name of Tibor Navracsics on it, it cannot be said that this is so urgent that it should be brought before the National Assembly, or it has not yet been possible to begin a common thought. I would also like to draw attention to the fact that I would also like to turn to the specific proposal that the name of the place of law can be described as being legally accurate, but it is fundamentally wrong that people will not understand what this is about. Here in Parliament, it is said several times by Members of Parliament that they are legislating. Now, if Members of Parliament confuse the words of lawmaking and lawmaking, and they have mixed it up more than once, and this is a common trend, then the average citizen, if he sees on the board that it is a place of law - and we hope he does not see it, because things will start elsewhere, say, more district courts, if necessary - will think that nini, some kind of office of parliament is open and that complaints can be sent to Members. That is what they will think, because that is how the Hungarian people interpret it. So it's not a good concept. Legally accurate, but lawmaking still reminds people of the National Assembly. So, if we're going in this direction, we're going to have to have a court office or a court-appointed court, or a different name, by the way. We have not tabled an amendment to this because this proposal should be chewed over anyway, and we hope that this will not go through, but we also have problems with the name itself. People won't understand what's going on here. A real problem - and unfortunately, the shower announcer confirmed this in the National Assembly, as we have heard - is that they are probably preparing for the demotion of district courts here. I understand that maintaining a small district court is not very economical, but the court system is not about economics. He never told me he wasn't gonna make that kind of income. By the way, stadiums don't generate any revenue, I do, and they're a little bigger than a court of a few people, but I don't want to go in a populist direction here, but unfortunately, even the bodies or facilities that are supposed to operate otherwise don't work economically. In my opinion, the courts cannot be expected to do so. My fellow Members who spoke before me said precisely that we are writing over judicial decisions. Mr. Curia President is present and I would also like to welcome him. I wanted to do this at the beginning, only Imre Vas brought me into a state of nerves, and I forgot to give a special welcome to Mr. Curia President, so I have to say this to Imre Vas, but I am very glad that Mr. President is here, but if he is here, Mr. President, then it can be said that the decisions of the Curia are equally overwritten by these laws. This is equally disrespectful to the Curia. Otherwise, with the Constitutional Court, if they had two thirds, they would do the same, because the oversemination was a very common, popular method for Fidesz, and they did it without saying a word. This, by the way, increases the extremely bad mood that we are experiencing at the moment between the courts and the judges. Obviously, the judges won't talk about this in public, but if someone listens or asks their opinion, they'll tell you, even to the government, I think they'll tell you informally. The mood is extremely bad, and the deterioration of the mood in this direction is two-way, external and internal problems. The internal problems are also caused by the laws, which my fellow Member Schiffer said, and I would not repeat. The internal siege of the judicial system, judicial independence, is that no matter what a particular judicial community says, what proposal it puts forward for a tender, it can be overwritten. It's true with tricks, but it can be overwritten. This is a problem in the hands of the National Court Office. This is a right that is equally a problem in the hands of a current president, regardless of the president's identity. This causes internal tension, internal problems. The outside and the fact that the National Assembly is so confident in the courts. Otherwise, in countless cases, the court will receive the attack that the D.A. would have to take on incompetible investigations, unprofessional investigations, or I don't know for what reason failed investigations, prosecution and anti-corruption. [[10.10]] And then when there's a bad indictment, it's possible to beat up the courts that the verdicts aren't right, but the court can decide what they're bringing in. You, and, by the way, Németh, battering ram, are not usually lying about what prosecutions, let's say, are filing charges and trying to verify the prosecution's activities. Why is that? 'Cause they feel there's nothing to push around the D.A.'s office, it's inside the D.A.'s system. Now it's the courts that have to bleed out. It must be bled out in an organizational manner, bled out either by means of legal appreciation, and bled out by means of financial appreciation, because if it is already yesterday's central bank president's salary... Although I understand, let us appreciate that the President of the Central Bank does not have the many, but, let us say, the postal manager, who makes the same amount, but, by the way, if we look at the judicial salaries, we are last, and otherwise in the EEC countries we are among the last in judicial salaries, there is no judicial career model. Of course, we'd order the judges, run, run, even to a place of law, but they refuse to do so, and I risk deliberately refusing to settle the judges' wages, let them have tension within the system, let the judges feel that as long as they may not decide as you wish, there will be no raises here. By the way, it was argued here that the salary of the President of the National Bank is not outstanding in Europe at absolute value, but the articles now appear that if you look at the average wage of the country in question, it is the first indeed. And judicial salaries are in absolute value among the last. If you look at the average salary, I'm afraid to tell you where we're going. It is shameful, it is humiliating to have to work for judges for this, and in this way we expect the highest level of decisions. It never occurs to you that they also make a living with money, not just the President of the Central Bank, and they also need a financial background to carry out their work properly and keep their independence. I must also say that it is not entirely good in the text that judicial staff will be responsible for managing the place of law. In fact, it means that not a judge, but an ad-officer will practically lead these, let's call it... - you don't call it that, but let's say, the chaotic little post-martial courts built on the ruins of the district courts, which have been led by the president so far, would then be entrusted, let's say, to an ad-officer. Again, this in itself does not help things to function properly. I'd like to quote another thing, because less words have been said, although the government must know. In October 2015, a report by the Institute for Human Rights of the International Bar Association came out - Commissioner State Secretary knows because he is shaking his head, it is excellent - they gave the title to their report - it was not the first time they reported on Hungary, it was a recurring report. At one or two points, it is recognised that progress has been made, but the main conclusion is that judicial independence and the rule of law in Hungary remain at risk. It hurts enough to have an address like that. In this report, they, in particular, refer to the rights of the OBH and to the excessive rights of the current President, which may suggest that independence and the rule of law have been put at risk in Hungary, and this is not just a liberal lonzunge, believe me, so if so many people say it, then we should pay attention and listen to it. I think that we should talk about these things, that we should convene a five-party consultation on similar reports and what we can do in the future, what we can do to change the external and internal judgement of the courts. As long as this does not happen, everything is a beauty patch on the system, and therefore in this form we will not support it; then you will decide how you will try to flatten the two thirds. Mr. President, thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2016-03-02-22	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congressman Csaba Gyure, Jobbik Group. Here you go.
u2016-03-02-23	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, The conclusion of today's debate, in addition to what we have already said, has not been properly discussed, that we do not know why it has been delayed 2-3 years, if it is such an urgent law, but two conclusions are the reasons, or what the purpose of this bill might be. One that is included in the bill, and it is clearly formulated, is the designation of the new legislative sites, and the aim is to support this, which has been described in order to bring justice closer to the citizens. By which I said that this is very nice, very good, I said in my speech to the lead speaker how difficult it is for judges, for judges to allocate negotiations, for travel, for handling cases, for conditions of complaint day, for the existence of legislation, for the existence of non-existent, for the general facilities of the building, for the provision of the building, for the entire infrastructure that must be built, so that is the problem with this part. The other option, which is contrary to the objective of bringing justice closer to citizens, has emerged in this debate, namely what several speakers have already suggested that this would actually mean that district courts would be closed in Hungary. Obviously, if we close something, shut down some system, and leave a burning fire on a much smaller flame in a place with a large flame, then it means that we are just taking the justice system away from the citizens, taking them further away, thus eliminating district courts, which, by the way, corresponds to what the Ministry of Justice stated in the previous term, which was to say that more district courts, which operate with less capacity, should be closed in Hungary. So, obviously, this has been said several times on the part of the judicial portfolio, and obviously this picture would fit in, but then again we get what we've been used to in the last six years to get a nice principle to bring justice closer, and in the meantime, the exact opposite is happening, precisely to cut it down. So this danger is also included in this legislation. I think that we have duly justified all three opposition groups, on the basis of their own views, explaining why it cannot be supported in the first instance, why it cannot be supported in the second case, but, nevertheless, we look forward to the concept of the judicial portfolio in this regard, and if something new comes up, there is obviously a possibility to review our position, but in our view, we do not see that this law is suitable to fulfil its purpose. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2016-03-02-24	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Mr Gergely Bárándy, MSZP Group, applied for a two-minute speech. Here you go.
u2016-03-02-25	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, I consider the five-party dialogue an important and good genre, but I think it is the parliamentary debate that is perhaps an even more important genre. A lot of arguments have now been made on the opposition side that might be worth some government reaction. It would be worth some government reaction, Mr State Secretary, and this is something that we repeatedly ask you to respond when there is an opportunity for the opposition to respond to your words, not in the closing words. That is what I would ask of you now, because, indeed, what may have come up in this debate in principle, in addition to the professional arguments concerning the specific bill, is that the overwriting of judgments by law and the amendment of the powers of the President of the OBH. I'd really like to know what the wallet's thinking about that. Obviously, this will affect our attitude towards future, even five-party negotiations. I note that I was not in a position to learn about this possibility before I spoke at the lead speaker, but I learned from my fellow Member Vas that there would be a five-party after I told the keynote speaker, but really put this little thing in parentheses. So, I'm interested in the position of the judicial portfolio during the debate on the points that we made here on the opposition side. Thank you very much.
u2016-03-02-26	Thank you, Congressman. For a two-minute speech, I give the floor to Congressman Csaba Gyüre, Jobbik Group. [[10.20]]
u2016-03-02-27	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. My colleague Gábor Staudt raised a problem, and he spoke about it in detail in his 15-minute speech, and part of that was the remuneration of judges, which is not specific, but is practically related to this issue. I would add so much, because it is true that we are talking about the least-paid judges in the European Union when we expect them to have a high level of justice in Hungary, and now we expect them - except for pregnant mothers, long-term patients, and the rest - that they will have to go back and forth, or bus or crowd, if any; so let us raise what we expect from them, their workload, and, in addition, the remuneration will not even arise. Unfortunately, we can see that the Orbán government is consistent in this, since neither between the first government and 98-2002, nor between 2010-14, nor since 14 we have practically failed to organise the judges' wages. President Tünde Handó said at his last hearing here in Parliament that, in real terms, the judges' salary has been paid since the last raise, and I can't remember the exact number, but it has decreased almost 50 percent in real terms. It's a shocking thing, and I think it's a trend during the Orbán governments, that there's no way that judges can settle salaries here. Of course, we had debates that there was a wage arrangement in the 2010-14 cycle, which was indeed, but they canceled their 13th month salary and put it into basic wages, and that was when the judges' salary really increased by 0.4 percent, but I think it's ridiculous. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2016-03-02-28	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I'll ask if anyone else wants to speak. [[There's no signal.]] I don't see any contact. The general debate is closed. I give the floor to Mr Pál Völner, State Secretary, who wishes to respond to what has been said in the debate. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2016-03-02-29	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, First of all, I would like to thank the speakers for not discussing the proposal in substance, so if I understand correctly, then... [[Dr. Gábor Staudt's intervention.]] Yes, I will also mention it, but it has not been disputed in its substance, so that it is necessary to bring the operation of the courts closer to the clients. Congressman Bárándy was involved in his speech, and I apologize for saying it at the end. [[Dr. Gergely Bárándy: Could have been in the middle of it.]] I think it is a pity to open a debate, so this is the law before this House right now, so the issues that have been discussed between the opposition and the ruling party for years, I think it would be too much of a requirement to say that they now reach an end point in this amendment. Indeed, the five-party consultation - if that is offensive, I apologise for not having called earlier - is being organised by my fellow Member Imre Vas on Monday. Of course, the Ministry of Justice is also represented, and on all the issues that have arisen here, whether we can solve it or not, we are open to at least the position that has been taken here in the past. Perhaps the most important question that has been raised here is the closure of district courts. The jurisdiction of the courts is not affected by this proposal, but it is precisely within the competence of establishing these jurisdictions. What my fellow Member Staudt mentioned is an interesting thing, whether we are breaking the habit of calling things by name now, whether it will be a place of law, or if we are allowed to find a different term. This was also worth discussing, so it is obvious that we are open to this. So, if that's all that depends on the success of the proposal, then I think we can discuss such issues on a substantial basis. What I would also like to say is that it is obviously based on statistical data that where such a place is created is where it can arise, in relation to which groups of cases it may arise. The opinion of the OBH is always sought, so it is also provided for in the law on the structure and administration of the courts itself. Impact assessments, in so far as they concern district court jurisdiction, will, of course, always be developed and presented on the basis of them. In some cases, I felt that we had expanded beyond the scope of the proposal, and that we had already gone back to discussions. What my fellow Member Schiffer mentioned, I do not see the situation so tragically. The fact that there have now been changes in the confidentiality of business at Posta, the National Bank and the disclosure of data can be argued on this, but that this would so adversely affect the vast majority of market participants or cause problems in the case-law or case-law of the courts in the future, does not seem to me to be fully justified. As for the other things that have been said, I would not go into much detail, because we will have a chance to meet on Monday. I hope that we can address the questions that have been raised, respond to them, and that our experts can reassure us that we can discuss these issues. Thank you all very much for your constructive attitude. Thank you, Mr. President. [[Applause from the Fidesz ranks.]]
u2016-03-02-30	I thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, The amendments may be submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. Dear Parliament, A general debate between the Government of Hungary and the Government of the Republic of Slovenia on the draft law on the exchange and mutual protection of classified information will follow. The government referral is T/9291. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, I give the floor to Mr Károly Kontra, Secretary of State of the Ministry of the Interior, author of the item on the agenda. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2016-03-02-31	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, The exchange of classified information may be necessary in criminal cooperation between countries, and it is therefore desirable that countries provide an equivalent level of protection for classified information in order to ensure adequate protection. After the entry into force of the Act on the Protection of classified information, professional work was started to ensure the protection of classified information generated and exchanged in cooperation with partner countries. The Convention now to be published was signed by representatives of the two States on 22 January 2016. Its primary objective is to protect classified information generated or exchanged in cooperation between the two countries. In this context, it shall regulate security cooperation between the Parties, designate the competent authorities and provide for the standardisation of each national classification level and for the procedure to be applied in the event of a breach of the security of classified information. Dear Parliament, The conclusion of the agreement will also contribute to the effectiveness, strengthening and success of cooperation in the fields of defence, home affairs, police cooperation and the fight against national security, international organised crime and terrorism. In the framework of security cooperation to ensure mutual protection, the competent security authorities shall process the classified information provided under the Convention, provide each other with information and assistance, recognise each other's personal and site security certificates and, where necessary, conduct visits to verify the management of classified information. Dear Parliament, I ask the Honourable Parliament to support the bill for the publication of the Convention between the Government of Hungary and the Government of the Republic of Slovenia on the exchange and mutual protection of classified information signed on 22 January 2016. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause from the Fidesz ranks.]]
u2016-03-02-32	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Now we're going to hear the speeches from the lead speaker. I give the floor to Congresswoman Mónika Bartos, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group. Here you go.
u2016-03-02-33	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Mr. Secretary of State! Fellow Members! The relationship between Hungary and Slovenia has developed in recent years in the spirit of a traditional good neighbourhood. The proposal before us strengthens this good relationship by concluding and publishing a treaty. [[10.30]] But what this relationship is, allow me to mention a few points. On 15 January 1992, the Republic of Hungary recognised the Republic of Slovenia and established diplomatic relations with it. Even that year, Slovenia's embassy opened in Budapest and Hungary's embassy in Ljubljana, and six years later, Slovenia's Consulate General started operating in Szentgotthárd. The meetings of the main public-law dignitaries are regular, as are the relations between the two parliaments. Speaker László Fatér met with the President of the Slovenian National Assembly in January 2015. The meeting was held in connection with the joint production of a Copiac and a wreath plaque, honoring the Memorial of the Mura region after the Second World War, in front of nearly six hundred Hungarian monuments interned by the former Yugoslav authorities. In January this year Prime Minister Viktor Orbán participated in the Slovenian-Hungarian business forum in Ljubljana. In his speech, the Prime Minister highlighted his hope that the border region will also be given a new impetus, so the Hungarians and the Slovenians will also find their calculation on the Slovenian side. He also pointed out that Slovenia and Hungary have more opportunities to spare. The Prime Minister's reflections here affected our economic parameters and our relations with minorities. As far as our economic relations are concerned, the 2013 trade in goods has reached EUR 1.9 billion and, in recent years, foreign trade has increased by EUR 400 million per year. The closeness of economic relations is shown by the fact that since 2007 Slovenian-Hungarian business council has been helping to deepen them. A good transport relationship is a prerequisite for strengthening bilateral relations. At present, unfortunately, the motorway network of the two countries is not fully connected, rail transport is not electrified throughout the entire length, and there is also a lack of interconnection between the electricity and gas networks. Our relations with minorities are fundamentally orderly, the existence of the two minorities is not a source of conflict, but a factor that strengthens cooperation between countries. The minority rights approach of the two countries is similar, both guaranteeing collective rights in order to preserve the identity of minorities. The rights of minorities have also been incorporated into the Slovenian Constitution and the Hungarian and Italian minorities are considered to be a factor of state. The proposal before us concerns a different subject, the exchange and mutual protection of classified information. Its essence: the data are transferred within the framework of the Convention; the transferred data are protected by the Parties on the basis of the same principle of protection; the transferring Party retains its right to dispose of the transferred data; the scope of the Convention covers all classified information. The Convention contains detailed rules on classified contracts, and this is also true for visits between the Parties. The Convention includes a more precise definition of the obligations of the transferring and receiving party, thereby extending the guarantee rules for the protection of classified information. This convention, as do the regulators of other areas, serves step by step the smooth, balanced cooperation of our countries, and, as the Secretary of State has said, effective compliance with the challenges of today. That is why I ask my fellow Members to support this proposal. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-03-02-34	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr Imre Horváth, the lead speaker of the MSZP Group.
u2016-03-02-35	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, In conjunction with the bill, I would also like to express the opinion of the Hungarian Socialist Party Group. On 15 January 1992, the Republic of Hungary recognised the Republic of Slovenia as one of the first, following the announcement of a separate Slovenia, and at the same time established diplomatic relations with the Republic of Slovenia. Slovenia's embassy was opened in 1992 in Budapest, and Hungary's representation in Ljubljana was opened in July 1992. As a friendly gesture, Slovenia appointed Dr. Ference Hajós as the first ambassador of the Lower Lendva Court. On 18 November 1998 the Consulate General of Slovenia started its operation in Szentgotthárd, and in February 2014 our country opened a consular office in Lendván, which also operates as the Consulate General from January this year. In 1992, the two countries signed a treaty of friendship and cooperation and signed a treaty. In addition to the Treaty, cooperation is governed by more than sixty inter-state agreements and inter-ministerial agreements covering almost all areas of the Convention on National Minorities and bilateral relations. In the spirit of good neighbourly relations, from 2007 we held joint government meetings, similarly to other relations. The second Hungarian-Slovenian joint government meeting took place in 2009 and the third in January this year. Economic cooperation and cultural relations were also discussed at the joint meeting held on 22 January. Six agreements have been concluded not only for good but also for strategic quality cooperation, including in the fields of education, culture, environmental protection and infrastructure development. By 2018, the M70 motorway will be extended to two lanes, so Budapest will be connected by a motorway with Ljubljana. In addition, the two countries will open six new border crossing points with three motorists and three bikes by 2020. In order to improve energy security, the interconnection of gas and electricity networks between the two countries was also agreed. The Agreement on the exchange and mutual protection of classified information between the Government of Hungary and the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, which is now on the agenda, was signed by the parties at this last meeting of the Government. The Agreement between the Government of Hungary and the Government of the Republic of Slovenia on the exchange and mutual protection of classified information aims to protect classified information exchanged or generated in cooperation between the Contracting Parties and legal and natural persons under jurisdiction. In this context, it shall regulate security cooperation between the Parties, designate the competent authorities, provide for the compatibility of each national classification level with each other and the procedure to be applied in the event of a breach of the security of classified information. The Government of the Republic of Hungary and the Government of the Republic of Slovenia already concluded a similar agreement on the protection of classified military information and assets in 1998. The Convention signed on 5 October 1998 in Misefa, the so-called Military Convention, was signed on 5 October 1998. It's announced by law. The replacement of the Military Convention with a new Convention on the Mutual Exchange and Protection of Classified Information became necessary because the Parliament adopted the Act on the Protection of Classified Data at the time of the MSZP Government on 14 December 2009, which fundamentally codified the structure of the protection of classified information in Hungary. The law entered into force on 1 April 2010, followed by similar agreements with France, Austria, Latvia, the Czech Republic, Slovakia, Poland, Albania and Macedonia. [[10.40]] The new Convention, based on the same basis as the Military Convention, was signed on 22 January 2016. In this context, the parties shall protect the data provided on the basis of the same principle of protection, or the transferring Party shall retain the right to dispose of the data provided, i.e. the level of classification of the data may be changed by the receiving Party only if the transferring Party agrees, or the data transmitted may be transmitted to a third party only with the consent of the transferring Party. However, the scope of the new Convention is more extensive than that of the Military Convention, since it covers all classified information, regardless of the reason for which the parties consider it to be protected, and the new Convention contains more detailed rules, inter alia, on classified contracts and visits between the Parties. While, in principle, the Parties have been in diplomatic contact under the Military Convention, the direct exchange of information under the new Convention becomes general. The new Convention also includes a more precise definition of the obligations of the transferring and receiving party, thereby extending the scope of guarantee rules for the protection of classified information. The Hungarian Socialist Party's parliamentary group supports the adoption of the bill. Thank you very much.
u2016-03-02-36	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congressman Tibor Bana, the lead speaker of the Jobbik Group. Here you go.
u2016-03-02-37	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, With regard to the agreement before us, it is important to say that such an agreement already existed with the Republic of Slovenia, but in 2009 the Hungarian Parliament adopted a new law on the protection of classified information, and it was therefore necessary to amend the agreement between the two countries. The main concern must be the safety and protection of Hungary and Hungarians. These agreements also serve this purpose. This is particularly true now, in times of immigration crisis, because the data of people passing through different countries can be shared by states on the basis of such agreements, which will allow for greater efficiency in filtering out dangerous elements and finding suspicious data. This is particularly important, since the path of migrants is strongly interlinked between these two countries, so it is necessary to have an agreement that facilitates cooperation between the authorities of the two states. The Hungarian and Slovenian people and their governments have traditionally had a good relationship. One of our country's best cooperation is with Slovenia from neighbouring countries. This relationship goes back to the time when Slovenia did not exist as an independent state, but was part of Yugoslavia, and this is mainly due to a strong and good relationship with the Slovenian minority in Rábavidék. As has already been said, our country was among the first to recognise the Republic of Slovenia back in 1992. Dear Parliament, Cooperation has since grown in many areas. Slovenia is not a member of the Visegrád Four, but it is involved in the so-called V4 Plus and cooperates with the other participating countries, including Hungary, in a number of areas, for example, in promoting the integration of the Balkan region. A few months ago, I was a member of the Slovenian-Hungarian Friendship Group in Muravidék and Ljubljana, and the experiences and hears confirm that there is openness on both sides of these relations, and we have also formulated concrete ideas for the future. If I have already mentioned the school of friends, I have to say that the Hungarian-Slovenian IPU meets regularly and is an important driver of good relations between the two countries. Our city, Szentgotthárd, has a Slovenian Consulate-General, and we strive to maintain the best possible relationship with the current Consul General. I am in the same way with Erika Kissné Köles, the Slovenian minority spokeswoman, and we have continued discussions with her. I would also like to say here, in the context of the Convention, that over the last few years I have been trying to make proposals here in Parliament and in other forums that serve to improve the situation of the people of the Slovenian Rábavidék and, on the other hand, to improve the situation of the Hungarians living in the Muravidék. To give just a few examples: I have spoken here in Parliament on several occasions on the Felsőszölnök-Tétvölgy connecting road, and it is glad that this road development could finally be implemented, which has lasted a very long time and has had a serious debt to our country. But further steps are also needed in relation to road development. I have the concrete plans and ideas for this, and I can promise myself that I will do everything in my power to make sure that they can happen as soon as possible, and I also ask the Government to bear in mind the agreements or what has been said at the joint government meetings. But to mention an important example in the case of Hungarians in Muravidék: the issue of the rail link between Rédics and Lendva also emerged at the visit of the friendly department to Muravidék, but, of course, further progress from an economic or cultural point of view would also be required, although it should be noted that fortunately, despite the fact that we can talk about a relatively small Hungarian community, it can be said that from a cultural point of view Hungarians who live there are very vibrant people, who are those who are flagships of this and who have been interested for many years or even decades in preserving their identity, their national culture, are those who live in Slovenia. Ladies and gentlemen, It is therefore important that we continue to strengthen our cooperation with the Central and Eastern European countries, as we can be able to work with them in many areas at international level, whether on the EU stage or in other fora, such as immigration. Luckily, this was my experience at the conference of the Committee on European Union Affairs in Warsaw at the end of January, beginning of February, and we could feel this from not only the Polish side, but also from the Czech and Slovak side. Therefore, there have been movements, whether from Austria or Slovenia, and, of course, I would not accidentally forget Croatia, because I think that strengthening the Polish-Hungarian-Croatian axis would be important anyway, we could jointly enforce our will on migration, and if this action is supplemented even by the Baltic States, then I think that this could be a strong brand at EU level. So I am asking the government to make use of its potential in any way, but I am also thinking of other things that could affect the reform of the Union. There are, therefore, plenty of opportunities, now that the British have thrown their own ideas in and made decisions about them, I believe that our country must do the same, and indeed there are cases where we could take action together with Slovenia. I believe that agreements such as the present Convention help to strengthen relations, so we consider this important and, of course, the Jobbik Group can support this publication. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2016-03-02-38	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. I will ask my fellow Members if anyone else wishes to speak under the item on the agenda. [[No signal.]] I don't see any contact. The general debate is closed. I will ask Mr Károly Kontra, Secretary of State, if he wishes to respond to what has been said. [[For signal:]] Yeah. I give you the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2016-03-02-39	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, I am pleased that my fellow Members who spoke in the debate underlined the importance of this convention, discussed the details of it, and I believe that they agree with me that this convention meets the interests of Hungary, is in line with the interests of the Hungarian people, and so again I call on this House to support the proposal. I would like to thank Mrs Mónika Bartos, representative of Fidesz, Mr Imre Horváth, representative of the MSZP and representative of Tibor Bana, representative of Jobbik, for supporting and recommending the proposal for adoption. That is what I ask of this House. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] [[10.50]]
u2016-03-02-40	I thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, The amendments may be submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. Dear Parliament, There is a general debate between the Government of Hungary and the Government of Mongolia on the draft law on the visa waiver of their diplomatic and service/official passport nationals until closure. The government referral is T/9298. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, I give the floor to Mr László Szabó, State Secretary of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Trade, the rapporteur of the item on the agenda. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2016-03-02-41	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear House, In September 1992, the Government of the Republic of Hungary and the Government of Mongolia concluded in Budapest the Convention on the Common Visa Waiver of Citizens with Diplomatic and Service Passports, which was announced by the Government Decree of 96/1993. The Convention provides for visa-free entry and residence for diplomatic and service passport nationals of the Parties for a period of 30 days. In the autumn of 2014, our ministry initiated the extension of the period of 30 days of mutual visa-free residence to 90 days in order to strengthen Hungarian-Mongol relations. There were no problems in the application of the current international treaty, but given that the previous agreement was concluded a long time ago in 1992 and was published in legislation at a lower level than the current practice, the authors therefore propose that a new agreement be reached between the two governments. The expert discussions have taken place, and as a result, the agreement that we have just tabled has been reached. The agreement was signed by Minister Péter Szijjártó in Ulánbátor on 29 May 2015 with the Mongolian party. The agreement was signed in Hungarian, English and Mongolian, and the law contains the publication of authentic Hungarian and English texts. The detailed visa waiver agreement covering Hungarian-Mongol diplomatic and service/official passports consists of 11 articles and contains detailed rules for visa-free entry and residence in Hungary and Mongolia for holders of the Hungarian diploma and service, as well as for holders of the Mongolian diplomatic and official passports. I ask this House to accept the bill that has been tabled. Thank you very much.
u2016-03-02-42	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Now we're going to hear the speeches from the lead speaker. I give the floor to Congresswoman Mónika Bartos, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group. Here you go.
u2016-03-02-43	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Mr. Secretary. Fellow Members! It is an honour and pleasure for me that I, as the lead speaker of Fidesz, can recommend to my fellow Members the agreement before us between the Government of Hungary and the Government of Mongolia. Why do I say that? A year ago, I could also be the one who summarized the proposal for a new building block of Hungarian-Mongol relations, the framework agreement on partnership and cooperation negotiated and supported at the time, its main points. I spoke then about the importance of a common sense of origin, strong emotional ties, a community of values based on parliamentary democracy and respect for fundamental human and freedoms. I have addressed some points about high-level visits, economic relations and cooperation in the field of education. The scientific cooperation will be strengthened by the then opened Mongolistics Research Centre six months ago. The Department of Internal Asia of ELTE has provided a solid basis for our relations. The department helps and faithfully serves the building of relationships in the everyday life, which, at the time of my speech, was represented in the translation, appearance and presentation of the haikukötetet of the Mongol poet Urjin Khurelbaatar. A year ago, we hoped that the Framework Agreement on Partnership and Cooperation would be a new but not a last step towards strengthening cooperation between our countries. And here we are, again, discussing an agreement with Mongolia. I wish all our hopes would come true this way. A number of important meetings have taken place in the last year, and I will now highlight only one. Prime Minister Viktor Orbán made a three-day official visit to Mongolia a month ago in January. During the visit, Péter Szijjártó, Minister of Foreign Affairs and Trade and Mongolian Foreign Minister, signed the Protocol on the revision of Hungarian-Mongol contractual relations. Hungary has also been given the opportunity to help take advantage of export opportunities from livestock farming in Mongolia. In addition, Eximbank opened a $25 million credit line to renovate a Mongolian biocombine. As you can see, there's a continuous networking process, and we've reached another stage. The proposal before us facilitates the expansion of visa-free travel opportunities for diplomatic and official/service passport holders of Hungarian and Mongolian citizens. It provides the heads of state leaders, representatives, diplomats, civil servants and economic and commercial institutions with an extension of visa-free stay over time. This means that the agreement exempts travellers from the time-consuming procedure for obtaining a visa for a longer period than before. The current bilateral international treaty allows 30 days of visa-free stay. The Agreement allows entry into and stay in each other's countries for a maximum period of 90 days authorised by the Schengen acquis, i.e. 180 days. The agreement, described in detail by the Secretary of State, concerns a part of the relationship system, but is an important part of it. That is why I ask my fellow Members to support it. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2016-03-02-44	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr Árpád Velez, the lead speaker of the group of the MSZP. Here you go.
u2016-03-02-45	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, As the 19th largest country in the world, Mongolia is characterised by a multi-party parliamentary system, separation of powers and relatively free public opinion. The level of protection of human rights is high compared to several countries in the region. Unfortunately, the country is also facing a number of development problems, such as the difficult environmental situation and continuous desertification. At the same time, it has significant mineral assets, such as coal, tungsten, tin and uranium, which in turn may attract significant capital inflows. There is also a gold and copper mine with one of the world's largest stocks. Due to the dynamic development of mining and agriculture, Mongolia has been able to show 10 percent economic growth in recent years. Nevertheless, the country's population, which also lives in a large country with extreme climatic conditions, must cope with the consequences of the ongoing transformation process. The population still having a predominantly nomadic lifestyle is now massally flowing to small cities in the country, which also do not have the infrastructure to cope with it. The growth of the Mongolian economy is therefore based on agriculture and the mining industry, in which the Hungarian technology is specifically developed and sought-after. The mining industry has become ever more intensive, which is a major task in terms of coordination with the mining industry, environmental and residential interests. However, this is an excellent opportunity for Hungarian drinking water and waste water management, as well as for water storage and construction technologies. The increase in mining activity and the loss of water resources lead to the re-launch of well drilling in Mongolia. It is hoped that these will be carried out by a Hungarian company, given that in the 1950s and 1960s, two thousand wells were drilled by Hungarian water professionals. However, the increase in the performance of Mongolian agriculture has made Hungarian nutrition, animal health and food know-how and technology extremely sought out. On this basis, we hope that Mongolia will be one of the most important destination countries for Hungarian technology exports in the future. In addition to economic relations, bilateral political and cultural relations between Hungary and Mongolia have developed. It is enough to recall that the Mongol Head of State inaugurated a Mongolian Research Centre at the Eötvös Loránd University, the Hungarian Head of State and Government visited Ulanbátor and the Hungarian Embassy opened in May 2015 in the Mongolian capital. [[11.00]] With the re-opening of the Hungarian foreign representation, the number of EU Member States that maintain an embassy in Ulanbátor has risen to five. It is worth mentioning that the Hungarian embassy is now representing the EU Presidency in the first half of 2016, as the Netherlands does not have an ambassadorial representation in Mongolia. Unfortunately, the situation of Hungarian-Mongol business relations is also indicated by the fact that the turnover of Hungarian products arriving in Mongolia in 2012, for example, was less than HUF 1.5 billion, and the turnover of products arriving from Mongolia into Hungary was less than HUF 1.1 million, i.e. less than a month's ministerial salary. Returning to the bill on the agenda, the Hungarian Socialist Party considers it important to indicate at this crucial stage of the country's development that we support Mongolia and promote the development of democracy and the rule of law. We must encourage Mongolia to build closer relations with the European Union, its Member States. We must help to develop much closer economic and trade relations, which can only be done if there is legal certainty and if the rule of law develops. The extension of the visa-free stay granted to state leaders and representatives, diplomats, civil servants and managers of economic, commercial and investment institutions for official purposes can significantly help to strengthen political, economic and cultural relations between the two countries. We very much agree with the terms of the agreement, and we support the adoption of the bill. Thank you for your attention.
u2016-03-02-46	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. Mr Tibor Bana, the Jobbik Group, has made a statement. I give you the floor.
u2016-03-02-47	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Márton Gyöngyösi would have been my lead speaker for Jobbik, but unfortunately he couldn't make it to the beginning of today's meeting because of his illness. Therefore, I would like to say a few sentences about the convention before us, which the Jobbik Group can, of course, support. [[Dr. István Hiller, vice-president of the Parliament, takes the chair.]] Mongolia will be the new technological destination of our country, with news of mining and agricultural cooperation announced at the end of last year. I can add, for my part, that things are indeed in this direction, because last autumn I was in Ulanbátor with my fellow Members at the OSCE Parliamentary Assembly meeting, and we have seen that there has indeed been a serious development in Mongolia compared to previous decades. The country is a huge market, and Jobbik has always stressed that in the spirit of Eastern opening, we must find the partners with whom we can work on an economic and cultural line. I believe that Mongolia meets these expectations in all respects, because, on the one hand, we had a very positive welcome at the OSCE Parliamentary Assembly, which was very well organised by our Mongolian friends, and, on the other hand, we can also find links from the perspective of our past that can confirm that we do have a place in Mongolia, there is a place for Hungarian companies. So it is very welcome that there have already been announcements of concrete investments. I checked with the ambassador at the time. He has also said and listed the specific ideas that the embassy has come up with following, of course, the negotiations with the government. So for our part, we can add that, of course, we can certainly support such efforts. We also welcome the recent visit to Ulanbátor at Prime Minister level. We are asking the government to continue this line in the future, because we can indeed talk about a serious partner in Mongolia, and of course such agreements and agreements like this can further strengthen the already existing strong relations between the two countries. So for our part, as I have already said, we can support the agreement before us. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2016-03-02-48	Thank you very much, Congressman. Welcome. We'll get back to work. I'll ask if anyone else wants to comment on the agenda. [[No one's reporting.]] I'm gonna say no. As there is no other speaker, the general debate is closed. I'll ask the author, Mr. Secretary of State, if you'd like to reflect. [[Dr. László Szabó: Mr. President, briefly, in one minute, yes!]] You can do that. Here you are, Secretary of State, Secretary of State László Szabó.
u2016-03-02-49	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I would like to thank Mónika Bartos, Árpád Velez and Tibor Bana for their support. Indeed, technological exports have huge potential, and I see that this relationship has also attracted the interest of Hungarian small and medium-sized enterprises. I trust that, building on rich cultural traditions and history, there will be further trust, momentum and motivation in bilateral relations. Once again, I ask for the support of this House on the bill. Thank you very much.
u2016-03-02-50	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, I would like to inform you that the amendment proposals can be submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. Dear Parliament, A general debate on the proposal for a decision on the Day of Hungarian Higher Education will follow until closure. The government referral is H/9285. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, I give the floor to Mr László Palkovics, Secretary of State of the Ministry of Human Resources, author of the item on the agenda. Secretary of State, please.
u2016-03-02-51	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear Parliament, The University of Pécs celebrates its 650th anniversary in 2017, on the occasion of which the city of Pécs plans a series of jubilee celebrations for both South Transdanubia and Hungary, with which it intends to honor its predecessors in a dignified manner and the decision under which the XIV. In the middle of the century, the foundation stones of science were first laid in Pécs in Hungary. A marked wave of medieval university foundings appeared, but during the period between 1348 and 1367, Prague, Krakow, Vienna and Pécs took the lead in the creation of secular higher education in the enlightened countries of Central Europe. In his diploma of 1 September 1367, Pope Orbán V authorised the establishment of the University of Pécs to the Hungarian king Lajos Nagy. The establishment of a higher education institution supported by the diocese of Pécs was the beginning of a new era of Hungarian culture and education. Medieval University of Pécs involved the Hungarian intellectual community in the circulation of European higher education, which should be an outstanding example of internationalization in the 21st century. For Hungarian universities in the 20th century. Celebrating the 650th anniversary of the foundation of the University of Pécs as the first Hungarian university is an outstanding event in Hungarian education, and it is therefore a national issue, which is also of paramount importance for Hungarian culture and national cultural heritage. The fundamental aim of the Hungarian Day of Higher Education is to emphasize the role of Hungarian higher education as an international pioneer across historical ages and the development and traditional nature of the Hungarian knowledge-based society, to convey and preserve cultural values, to emphasize traditions, to strengthen university identity in higher education institutions' teachers, employees, current and former students, and to strengthen the international role of Hungarian higher education. The 650th anniversary of the foundation of the first Hungarian university is a milestone in the history of the Hungarian state, which contributes to the positive country image in several respects. On the one hand, it raises awareness in Hungarian society of the traditional nature of Hungarian higher education, its high quality, and on the other hand another area of Hungary is at the forefront of which it is leading Europe. The initiative to have the first day of Hungarian higher education from 2017 to September will greatly help Hungarian higher education to become an international heritage with which all citizens can identify. The Day of Hungarian Higher Education will be celebrated for the first time on 1 and 2 September 2017, which the Prime Minister and the Secretary of State responsible for culture are planning to invite as the Jubilee Patron of the University of Pécs, the Parliamentary Representative of Pécs and the Alumni. Donald Tusk, President of the European Council, Dr. György Buzsáki brain researcher, will be inaugurated at the event and the statue of King Lajos Nagy and Bishop William will be inaugurated. In preparation for this and complementing this, the University of Pécs celebrates the 650th anniversary of the foundation of the first Hungarian university at several prestigious events, including international conferences, scientific meetings, art festivals and sporting events, which are not only national but also international. Some of these examples: VIII will be held. International Hungarological Congress in the summer of 2016. At the same time, the representatives of the sciences in this field have to deal with the downestimation of human sciences and, in particular, of small languages and cultures referring to economic rationality, although it is obvious that humanities, including Hungarian sciences, are made indispensable by the fundamental need for understanding and the need for cultural mediation. [[11.10]] In the autumn of 2016, in the spring of 2017 several Nobel Prize winners will be invited by the university and an Open University event series, these Nobel Prize winners will give lectures. International Week will be organized in the spring of 2017. The programme is closely linked to the internationalisation programme supported by the government and, in particular, to a significant increase in the number of students of the University of Pécs abroad. International Week brings together international evenings, Africa programmes, diaspora organisations and diasporas related to the implementation of the Diaspora project, which also allow the culture, customs and gastronomic introduction of foreign students. The programme will be invited by ambassadors from countries of foreign students, which can then be expanded with representatives of the foreign affairs of other governments. The annual congress of the European University Association will be organized in the summer of 2017. This organisation is the main stakeholder forum for European universities, which acts as a type of expert body before the EU's proposals or issues to be considered are presented to the European governing representations, i.e. it has an extremely important role to play in shaping opinions. Dear House, I'm asking you to support H/9285. A proposal for a decision. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-03-02-52	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Now we're going to hear the speeches from the lead speaker. First, I give the floor to Mrs Mónika Dunai, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group. Here you go.
u2016-03-02-53	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, The Fidesz Group supports the government's initiative to have the Day of Hungarian Higher Education on 1 September of every year from 2017, which, as said by the Secretary of State, is also a memorial day for the establishment of the University of Pécs. Annex XIV is replaced by the following: By the last third of the 20th century, the growing demand for higher education encouraged young people in Hungary to study abroad. This trend reached a turning point during the reign of Louis the Great. Pope Orbán V authorised the establishment of the University of Pécs to the Hungarian king Lajos Nagy in his certificate dated 1 September 1367. Ladies and gentlemen, Allow me to quote a brief detail from the founding charter of Pope Orbán V. At the request of the king of Hungary, we order the city of Pécs to have a studio generale, in which the church and civil law and all other not forbidden sciences should be taught outside the religious sciences. - end of quote. Ladies and gentlemen, This letter was the beginning of a new era in the history of Hungarian education, an opportunity to catch up behind Bologna, Padova, Paris and the recently founded higher schools in Prague, Krakow and Vienna. The university started with three faculty - medical, legal, philosophical - and professors from abroad to Hungary. This was not only the first step in scientific education, but also the broadening of the qualifications of the church, secular leader and lower level of office. There was a high level of training at the university. The Hungarian students who graduated here filled rector, dean and teacher positions at several foreign universities. Supposed to be the 15th. At the beginning of the 20th century, the university was still operating, while in 1395 Sigismund of Luxembourg founded another university in Obuda. After Mátyás' experiment in Bratislava, the nearest station is the University of Nagyszombat XVII. It was founded in the first century. In memory of this, the government proposes the day of Hungarian higher education and marks 1 September, the date of Pope Orbán V's letter of approval. There are many good days in the calendar, we could ask why Hungarian higher education should have a special day. I believe that this day is a good day to highlight, to introduce the educational, scientific, research and student activities and performance that characterize higher education in Hungary. This day provides an opportunity to recognise these achievements and to contribute to further increase the attractiveness of higher education institutions by presenting outstanding performances and further strengthening their international standing. Ultimately, it is capable of contributing to the appreciation and honor of a high level of knowledge, which is the basis for a high level of social functioning, problem solving and development. Ladies and gentlemen, In view of this, the Fidesz fraction supports the submitted decision proposal. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-03-02-54	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. It is now up to the lead speaker of the MSZP Group, Mr László Kiss. Here.
u2016-03-02-55	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I admit, when I was in college, I used to play a game with my friends in history. What we did was we poked on him any day, tried to reconstruct what happened that day. If we didn't know, then we said what didn't happen that day, and then we said it wasn't that day, for example, the Battle of Mohács and so on. Slowly, his symbolic laws are starting to play a game similar to what we've been playing, poking around for a day, and then we'll see what was there. Undoubtedly, this game can be played otherwise, because there are indeed marked days, marked holidays, which it is right to include in our calendar, and obviously the founding of Hungary's first relatively permanent university can be such a day, no doubt that this is the case. On 6 October we will now be talking about the 620th anniversary of the establishment of the second Hungarian and the first university in Budapest, the University of Óbuda, in my constituency. Obviously, it's another good day that we'll remember on the spot. So there are many such days in Hungarian history. The 6th of October is an unfortunate date because of something else, obviously that's why it can't be used. Of course, I understand that the fact is that the button is already there, because there will be significant celebrations in the city of Pécs and the university itself next year to celebrate this excellent date, the establishment of the university. As far as we know, the government provides significant resources or wishes to secure - that is correct, and I do not dispute that - and this button also requires the coat to be secured by including the day of Hungarian higher education into law from 2017, so as the whole anniversary comes out nicely. I think that we could celebrate the day of Hungarian higher education even from 2016; it is true that the whole anniversary would obviously not come out, but it will be from 2017. I must tell you frankly that, in full agreement with the Secretary of State's statement on what purpose this proposal should serve, even with the greatest imagination, and even with regard to my experiences as a former university student, I find it difficult to see how this proposal serves these objectives. So, obviously, anyone can think seriously that these things are happening, they are being fulfilled, what Mr. Secretary of State said, that we are now thinking with a grateful heart of our university life, and we will work with the full sense of our historical past, with faith in the future. Undoubtedly, it is very good that we do, and I am very pleased that this proposal will ensure this. I can honestly say that I don't really see this possibility in these three points, but this must be my problem, and even the Socialist Group will be able to support this proposal, because it doesn't hurt in the end. I think that there are also development opportunities in the field of higher education, let us say, even beyond that. So it is good that this is here, yesterday we talked about public education in this House for a long time, and higher education would also be worth a number of Masses, and I will not open this question now, but it would be very good if the issue of higher education, in addition to such a one-sided presentation, would occur several times in this House. It is very difficult for us opposition representatives - and this must be said not only in connection with this proposal, but also in relation to almost all national political proposals - that the government does not even attempt to involve opposition parties in this legislation. [[11.20]] We would very much like to see the proposals that you really believe are common national issues, so they can really be important to everyone regardless of party standing, because I think there is obviously no discussion with you that those who want to celebrate this day in Pécs or anywhere in the country obviously have left-wing, right-wing, liberal people who think this is very important. Why don't we make a gesture to each other to make this legislation open to others? Why do we see that, by the way, these proposals come in relatively positive terms in the presentation of the government and, on the other hand, in individual parliamentary representations, practically word for word? This is very difficult because it is difficult for me to believe, even with the greatest goodwill, when you talk about such a national issue, while there is no attempt to at least produce this national interest in the proposal. There are good examples of this. For example, with my Polish seymour, a broadly symbolic stand-up is such a positive example, but I note that for some reason this can only work in Polish-Hungarian interaction, which is not the case for any other national political proposal. I would like to ask Mr Secretary of State that, in the event that they are still planning something like this, otherwise I do not dispute, really important things, they should endeavour to make joint proposals with the other opposition parties. Believe me, it would be very important for the country to really have national minimums. If you identify such national minimums, because the government obviously has an excellent opportunity to identify them, you would also do a lot for democracy when you are trying to involve opposition parties in this. Obviously, if there are no reactions to this which you expect, it is also a signal; it is a signal that either that national minimum has been misidentified or that the opposition party is not correct enough in conduct. I am sure that if we see a proposal, whether it is made with such indisputable goals or with other, otherwise indisputable, objectives and national minimums, we can also take it as a rapporteur. That is why we have dilemmas about the proposal. In fact, I can say that even the Socialist Party can support this, because we do not see that this would be particularly bad, and of course it could be good. However, we would prefer that we have proposals before us on which Mr Secretary of State has said his objectives, and I do not dispute any of them, because it would really be good if he served them. Thank you for listening.
u2016-03-02-56	Thank you very much. The lead speaker of the Jobbik Group is coming, Mrs Dóra Dúró. Here you go.
u2016-03-02-57	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, The Jobbik support the proposal. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2016-03-02-58	Thank you very much. Since no other factions have given a keynote speaker, the first independent Member may speak. I give the floor to Congressman Szabolcs Szabó. Here you go.
u2016-03-02-59	Thank you for the floor. Mr. President. Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, I think that those of us who are here in this House, and those who have said so, agree that Hungarian higher education is one of Hungary's greatest values. There are many of us here who have lived in this, lived in it, worked in it, grew up here, socialized here, and we have seen that part of the research and partly educational activity that goes on there is, on the one hand, internationally recognized and outstanding. There are many researchers working in Hungarian universities, higher education institutions who are truly internationally recognised, we have several major universities, which are in the international rankings, but are in the lead, usually among the 400-500 most well-known, most important universities. It should also be mentioned, of course, that the tens of thousands of colleagues who work in higher education and the hundreds of thousands of students who - let us put it this way - fill their knowledge and start their research careers, if they are listening to research, all these people are doing very important work, and they are very diligent in trying to achieve the goals that are partly important to universities, colleges, and, of course, their own lives, their own careers. So there is no debate in this. We, too, on ELTE - I'm an assistant professor at ELTE - have been missing, in fact, the last 10 to 15 years since I've been in there, that they never really thank me for the job. You don't always miss the money, and you don't always talk about the salary, but sometimes it would have been nice to be thanked for the fact that, according to your vocation, you actually perform, research, and educate. In this respect, I can fully identify with the fact that Hungarian higher education has a day, and let us say that on this day, colleagues should be informed either by a separate letter or by any other means that the Hungarian State recognises their activities and thanks for their research and educational activities. I do not want to go into what problems there are in Hungarian higher education, but I would note in parentheses that this is important because, obviously, whoever is involved in domestic higher education knows the internal conditions, it knows that in the last five to ten years there have been difficult conditions, both in terms of infrastructure and pay. This could be resolved, for example, but I do not want to take the debate in this direction. This debate was held in the good past when it came to raising the wages of higher education workers. Let me just say that, unfortunately, the problems that we have indicated that they will come up with have come up, but I tell you, I do not want to open this debate. Returning to the point, it is in itself that domestic higher education should have a day, when the Hungarian state expresses its recognition in some way towards those working in Hungarian higher education, it is a very important thing. But while we're at it, I think it's important that a proposal like this be pinpointed. Colleagues working in higher education in Hungary are also expected to comply with all scientific and methodological criteria, and to be precise in their activities. The first sentence of this submission no longer meets this criterion. Don't take this the wrong way, I don't want to put the University of Pécs on the line in this regard, but we do know that the University of Pécs is the successor of the University of Erzsébet, founded in 1912. The university, which was established during the reign of Louis the Great in 1367, cannot be regarded as a permanent institution in this form. We don't know much about it, there's more historians in this room, obviously they can say it better, I'm a geographer, but I know we don't really know anything about this institution except that it was founded. There are one or two archival sources that there were indeed instructors, students in a small number, but we don't even know how long it worked for exactly. You don't even know his location. As I understand it, they are still arguing in Pécs that what was revealed not so long ago is whether it is the building remains or not. So you can't even know that for sure. The University of Pécs, which is currently operating in Pécs and is likely to remain there until the end of time, we hope that the University of Bratislava moved to Pécs after the First World War. Accordingly, I do not think this reference is good in this proposal, because if we say that this is a quasi-spiritual continuity of Hungarian higher education, then it is actually the intellectual predecessor of all Hungarian higher education institutions, although such an expression does not exist in law, the University of Pécs. Then, in the rest of the presentation, I think it is quite well said that here the state wants to talk about the traditions and traditions of Hungarian higher education at some level, to remember at some level the great traditions of Hungarian higher education. After all, it was said here in the Expo and in the comments that perhaps this institution was established here in the region between the first five, so shortly after the University of Prague. So this is definitely important. [[11.30]] But let's really consider this more so, in my view, that the beginnings of domestic higher education go back here and not the beginnings of the University of Pécs. Again, I'm not trying to hurt the University of Pécs in any way. Within my own profession, I can say that there is a particularly high-quality geographer's training there, as great geographers as Gyula Prinz or Zoltán Pál Szabó, or the recently deceased József Tóth. Within the profession, these are all known and recognised names. We know that professional and scientific work is particularly important in other faculties, in other disciplines as well. So, on its own, in its own right, this is a recognized, important university, one of the biggest, if you look at the number of students, the only problem I think is that the first sentence in this first presentation is wrong. You feel a little bit like you're trying to take over the University of Pécs, and you're getting some crutches for that. Therefore, I would be more pleased if this could be extended in such a way that this day of Hungarian higher education can be achieved in all Hungarian higher education institutions, even the first one in 2017, so that there will be events everywhere and some kind of source. I don't think that's gonna take much. For example, when the University of Eötvös Loránd was 375 years old, in the school year 2011-12, I remember that there was a medal distributed there, the logo was temporarily added to the header with this year and the rest. If a few conferences are held, for example, a thank-you letter is written to the instructors, then this can be done very well. I would therefore strongly suggest that, in the case of resources, perhaps a little diversification should also be made towards other higher education institutions. Obviously, this is also important because when we talk about such commemorative days and anniversaries, we always talk about universities with great traditions. Obviously, this is when the University of Pécs refers to the year 1367, the ELTE always refers to the foundation of the University of Nagysombat in 1635 and we could continue this for a long time. But let us not forget that there are many institutions that are much fresher, much younger, and, of course, they also have a place and role in higher education in Hungary. Then, obviously, if at such a level it could be expanded that they actually received funds and were involved in this memorial day at this level, they might feel even more accepted by the traditional or large university circle. In everyday language, we often use it, and the ELTE people always say that the country's first university, the Pécs and the Debrecen say the same thing, and the rest of it, but maybe if we expanded this way, we could refine this little elitist approach a little bit. Then everyone could feel like working on ELTE, Pécs, or a college in a small town or a posted faculty, that he is an active, active, recognised part of domestic higher education. So I would suggest that you comb this text a little bit, and from now on there is absolutely no problem, and it is even eligible that domestic higher education have such a memorial day. Thank you for listening.
u2016-03-02-60	Thank you very much. As a normal speaker, the representative of the LMP, István Ikotity, asked for the floor. Here you go.
u2016-03-02-61	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, The May Other supports the bill on the Day of Hungarian Higher Education. It is a symbolic gesture that on the occasion of the 650th anniversary of the foundation of the first Hungarian university, the first day of September will be declared the day of Hungarian higher education. Symbolic gestures are also important in higher education, but it is important to take other measures in addition to symbolic measures to strengthen Hungarian higher education. I would like to give you a few thoughts on this. Firstly, the LMP would call for the restoration of state support for higher education. Before 2010, there was a budget support of approximately 180-190 billion, but the funds started to decline already under the Bajna government, and the Fidesz-KDNP government continued its austerity policy in the previous cabinet. Thus, during the second administration of Fidesz, support for higher education fell to a low point, close to HUF 120 billion. I'm talking about state aid, of course. Now they spend some more on it, the funding is around HUF 150 billion per year, but this is still significantly below previous funding levels. The LMP would spend HUF 10-15 out of every HUF 100 budget on education, which would mean an increase of at least one and a half times the current total expenditure on education, including a similar increase in the resources of higher education. In addition to the gesture value, the substantial development of higher education in rural areas would be a major help. Interestingly, when the University of Physical Education was in need of help as a result of a specific disaster, it immediately had billions at its disposal and even plans to build larger sports facilities in the framework of the reconstruction. When rural higher education institutions were in trouble, many were on the verge of termination, they did not hurry so quickly with support. On the proposal of the LMP, the Structure Change Fund was set up only months later. However, not only should higher education be strengthened financially, joint planning and common guidelines should be strengthened. Of course, we cannot deny that significant steps have been taken here, especially in relation to the previous period, with the development of a strategy, but we also need to confirm that there is a cooperation between the institutions and the Ministry of Maintenance on higher education. This should be done by issuing constantly revised guidelines and by providing administrative professional assistance. This policy is a real confirmation beyond the gesture value, and it is more in a healthy and efficient direction than the appointment of chancellors or the establishment of consistors. It means strengthening higher education by stopping the fall in the number of higher education candidates and the fall in the number of higher education students. Yeah, we're talking about a crash, even if last year's crash stopped a little bit. We refer to the data of the KSH: the number of students in the current age group has steadily decreased in recent years. The percentage of applicants in the 18-24 age group fell from 12 percent to 10 percent, and the percentage of admissions fell from over 7 percent to around 6 percent. Therefore, these figures show that despite demographic trends, the number of higher education candidates and their access to higher education is decreasing. In addition to supporting this proposal, we believe that there is a need to express them and that, in addition to symbolic gestures, there is a great need for substantive and real measures. Thank you for your attention.
u2016-03-02-62	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I'll ask if anyone else wants to take the opportunity to speak. [[There's no candidate.]] I'm gonna say no. As no one has made any further comments, the general debate is closed. I'll ask the Secretary of State if he wants to reflect. [[For signal:]] Mr. Secretary of State Palkovics has the floor. Here you go.
u2016-03-02-63	Mr President, Congresswoman! Congressman Lords! First of all, I would like to thank all the speakers for their constructive contributions, in addition to the fact that I think that symbols are very important, especially in a system such as the system of Hungarian higher education. This has been confirmed by all of us, and everyone has even added elements that I think we can apply well in the following. Whether there is a broader discussion on such a matter, or, as it has been said by the Member, that there should be matters that we can tie to it. I think this shows that our responsibility for Hungarian higher education is common, and those sitting here are usually present in debates that are usually very late when we are discussing or talking about the issues of higher education at 1:00 in the morning. I believe that Parliament is also capable of discussing this further, the Committee on Culture, as I indicated to Madam President at the time. So, at any time, we are very happy to report on this or even to discuss it. [[11.40]] So, once again, I thank everyone for their supporting contributions, if I can interpret it this way, that the MSZP will also support this matter. If I look around, there really are more people with human education here, I'm an engineer, so I'd have a really bad chance of arguing about this proposal now, or about the historical perspectives of this. As the Member put it, yes, universities like to think about themselves many things, as ELTE positions itself as the largest Hungarian university, which is true in many ways, in many ways not true, but I would leave them to universities. These are very good things, so I guess you don't have to take that away. It's a very good atmosphere. If this includes the fact that the University of Pécs thinks of itself - indeed, with the transfer of the University of Bratislava, today's version of the university - that we started the first university there, I think we should leave it there. It doesn't change the point. This is the day of Hungarian higher education, but, of course, we will consider changing the wording of this, so that it is clearer. And to allocate resources to this: partly the University of Pécs has received quite a significant source, as this series of events is related to this, but this is not unique. The few comments, and I do not want to be very bad news about the importance of higher education for the Hungarian Government, in response to Mr Ikotity's speech: I believe that this is a very complicated institutional system. He mentioned the support of the University of Physical Education - rural universities received the same infrastructure support in 2002-2014. From many sources, partly PPPs, and partly from sources that were not available in Budapest, i.e. from European Union, KIOP and other sources. I would mention the University of Pécs, which received HUF 24 billion for development within the framework of the Modern Cities programme, which will take place in the next three years. So we are really trying, as far as we can, to balance this between rural and Budapest universities. The basic development of rural universities, I think, both in the higher education strategy and in this breakdown, shows that the government is treating them in exactly the same way here; not only have we not closed a university, but we are trying to ensure the functionality of these existing universities by many means, and even the possibility of creating trainings in the countryside has also appeared. So I think that the kind of ratio between the countryside and the central region, Budapest, is definitely changing in a healthy direction towards rural institutions and rural access. The creation of IFT, the development of IFT, is taking place, and the institutional development plan is the version of the strategy of higher education institutions that is applied to themselves. It's not finished yet, it's moving a little slower, but it's a good process at that level. The institutions take this job very seriously. In a few weeks, this will be over. Otherwise, the consortium has a significant role to play. I think the consistorium is not a destabilization of university autonomy, but of its completion, simply because of the maintenance tasks that the Ministry has performed so far, and it is the Ministry, Szalay Street, who, by the way, appreciates IFT, compared to that, I think it is better that this be done by a body of external experts who feels responsible for the university, by him and not by the Ministry. That's what the delegation of his maintenance powers is all about. The daily relationship between the maintenance and the university: I think it has never been, in part, in the field of farming and, in part, in the field of academic affairs. Here, the maintainer appears more as a sponsor, because what the university teaches, what it does research with, with whom it does so, is the autonomous decision of the university. So I think we're on the right track in this case, too. Then you can see it in the numbers, by the way. If we can always compare numbers: in 2008 96,000 students applied to Hungarian higher education, in 2014-15 this was 105 thousand. The first numbers, although they are not yet final, but the first application numbers in this year's application process show that this is over 110,000, so the number of students applying is increasing, despite all other things, so despite the demographic decline, the number of applicants is increasing. I believe that those who meet the admission criteria, whether in the course or in general, do not have a limit on how many students we will be able to hire. So I believe, despite the downward trend in demography, that university numbers can be improved. There is another very important element - and I would like to end it, because it was supposed to be a festive type of speech - which says that it is not only enough to hire students to attend the university, but it is also the task and responsibility of the university that students can complete the university. These are the programs that really support the knowledge of students who come to the university with different skills, skills and knowledge, we measure it, and on the basis of the measurement, we make it a task for universities to really help the listener to not only tell his professional part, but also to add the skills and skills he can actually acquire his degree from. Thus, that 30% - a little reduced in recent times, but still high - dropout rate really should reach a level where the student does not spend his time unnecessarily, because this is what his parents expect, this is the community's expectation that he will gain a degree, an evaluable knowledge. Thank you once again for everyone's support, and I trust that this will also appear in the vote. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-03-02-64	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, I would like to inform you that the amendment proposals can be submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. The President shall not, of course, take part in the debate. Fortunately, history has taken a very clear position on this issue, and I think that politics is right to build on these results, as it is here. Dear Parliament, There will be a general debate on the bill amending certain laws concerning dog breeding until closure. The government referral is T/9299. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, I give the floor to Mr István Nagy, Secretary of State of the Ministry of Agriculture, the rapporteur of the item on the agenda. Secretary of State, please.
u2016-03-02-65	Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear fellow Members, The regulation of dog breeding in Hungary was re-established in 1998 after the change of regime. This legislation concerns the breeding of pure-bred dogs, the production, registration of breeding animals, the collection of their breeding data and the implementation of their breeding programme, i.e. the maintenance of that breed, as is currently the case with a bovine animal or a pig. Neither in Europe nor in the rest of the world, the regulation of dog breeding similar to that of Hungary is known; this activity operates everywhere as part of the civilian world. Today, in the actual livestock sectors in Hungary - cattle, sheep and goats, pigs, poultry, horses and other minor species - the number of breeding organisations is 99 and a total of 217 species are registered and bred. On the other hand, there are currently 55 recognised dog breeding organisations in the field of agricultural production that are not considered economic livestock, which maintain a total of 155 dogs. This is a serious burden on one side, but without economic or professional interest, to the public administration and on the other hand to the majority of Hungarian breeders. In the case of setters, terriers, Maltese silk dog or Chinese naked dog, there is no place for state regulation. In the spirit of reducing the bureaucracy of the state, the Hungarian government rules on breeding other types of dogs with the exception of nine Hungarian dogs, such as komondor, puli, pumi, mudi, Transylvanian copper, kuvas, shorthaired Hungarian vizsla, wire haired Hungarian vizsla, Hungarian greyhounds, are therefore abolished. The bill introduces the concept of the Hungarian type of dog, which will be broken down by the law, i.e. a ministerial decree, which will be drawn up under the authority of the law. The designation of the Kinological Association and the recognition of breed societies that maintain breeds of dogs other than national dogs will cease on the 180th day following the entry into force of the law by virtue of the law. This will create a completely new legal situation in the organisation of domestic dog breeding, which will require the amendment of several laws. Once again, I would like to point out that the varieties outside the nine Hungarian dogs are excluded from the scope of the legislation, and that the official control over breeding will cease in these varieties. For this reason, it is necessary to provide for the approval of the Act XXXIX of 1991 on the organisation of gambling. Act CXIV of 1993 on animal husbandry Act No XXVIII of 1998 on the protection and welfare of animals amendment of the law. [[11.50]] Special attention has been paid to transition periods in the design of the regulatory changes. The entire state withdrawal will take place on the 180th day following the entry into force of the law. Until now, the Minister for Agriculture will carry out the necessary legislative tasks in this area. The breeding authority shall keep and record the breeding records of the breed societies which have ceased to exist, so that they are not lost, and the breeding data may continue to be used. Mr President, Dear Parliament, The bill presented is in the spirit of cutting red tape, and we hope it will resolve the conflicts that have accumulated in domestic dog breeding over nearly 20 years. As we stressed, the state will continue to protect our Hungarian dogs separately. I would ask you to support the bill with your comments and then with your votes. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[Applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2016-03-02-66	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Now we're going to hear the speeches from the lead speaker. First, I give the floor to Mr István Horváth, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group. Here you go.
u2016-03-02-67	Mr President, Dear House, We have a proposal that gives us a chance. It gives us a chance to put an end to previous unblessed conditions. It gives a chance for a sector to regain its authority. It gives us a chance to revalue the concept of a registered dog in our country. The opportunity comes into the hands of those to whom it is the most important to make use of it, the dog farming sector is given the opportunity to self-determination. The difficulties of the existing rules on dog breeding show nothing better than the drastic reduction in the number of domestic registrations. Many dog farmers have decided to have their dogs registered abroad in organizations there. The maintenance of the current rules on dog breeding, as we have heard in the national expozee, imposes a disproportionate burden on the authorities. There is no justification for public participation in this area. It is necessary to reduce bureaucracy. It can be seen that a radical correction of the inefficient regulation burdening the authority is a step that can be taken on an international basis for a mature, centuries-old tradition-based sector. Moreover, without losing sight of the goal of restoring the balance of domestic dog breeding. It is in the sector's well-conceived interest to restore domestic dog breeding in the longer term with quality producing breeding programmes, so that it can be trusted that domestic breeding organisations that can meet international requirements can also achieve stability on a civil basis. State legislation remains only in the area where it is absolutely justified. Thus, the breeding of domestic dogs with significant genetic value, which is of paramount importance for the preservation of our national identity, which are in some respects endangered and to be protected, can continue only under state-controlled frameworks. We look forward to the creation of a specific regulation for them, and we support this bill. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2016-03-02-68	Thank you very much. The lead speaker of the Socialist Party Group, Mr László Kiss, is next. Here.
u2016-03-02-69	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Well, I'm sure my mother-in-law's sweater will calm her down that she'll be very protected. But seriously, this proposal reminds me of an earlier situation when a few years ago, when I was still in the middle of the third century. I was a district councilman, then we were confronted with the fact that I, II. and III. a district infringement company, which is intended to impose fines on irregular car owners and to collect them, has a significant deficit of about HUF 100 million. We have been faced with the fact that if there were no penalties imposed by the I, II, III, and unfortunately, the XII. The district was among them, so these three or four municipalities would not impose any traffic penalties, so it would be an advantage for each municipality, because for some reason, this company obviously did not suffer disadvantages because of good operation. What we see now is that the problem in dog breeding is that there are so many complaints, problems - in many cases because of the operation of the association that the government is trying to support - that the institutional system cannot handle. And the organic answer to this is to build the sources of the problem, because dogs that are not Hungarian breeds - this is about 95-97 percent of all stocks - will no longer be subject to these laws from now on. This is about a little bit like saying that from now on, let's say it's only people who earn over 5 million forints a month's salary who could complain about, say, their electric bill, because there are so many complaints from others that it's simply unmanageable. It's obviously nonsense. Whether Hungarian dogs should be separated or not, I would not agree to this debate. I myself like dogs very much, including my favorite type of dog is Hungarian, but it is a matter of individual taste. If that is the sole purpose of this proposal to separate it in some way, then the Socialist Party could even calmly support it, but unfortunately that is not the case. It should be pointed out that a significant part of the problems come from the fact that there are a number of complaints about the work of several associations, such as the Association of the National Association of Hungarian Abbreviates, which generate a large proportion of the complaints received by the State. I don't think it's an organic answer to that is to put this association in a monopolistic position, and then I'll be very subtle in what I think. After all, what I can tell you is that it doesn't seem logical that if something goes wrong, I'll make the worst-functioning element of it exclusive and confirm it, and I'll keep everything else out of the system. I don't want to go to other areas, but it's as if this government is generally in the mood for nationalization, so we can see in many other systems how good the state can be, interestingly, these poor dogs are not so much wanted to be protected by the state for some reason. I understand that there is no national economic objective behind it, because these dogs do not pay, so obviously the state is less able to come out of it financially than, let's say, if the regime continues to nationalise the energy sector, but it is still about a government where nationalization is a central element of government - and I do not dispute that in many places this attitude is certainly true - the state now withdraws from exactly where it should not retire. I think it will have a crazy effect that from now on, the associations and the dog farmers who breed most of the dogs will operate without any meaningful control. So it is not that a significant part of them is still controlled by the state, but that from now on the rules of dog breeding must be applied to a very small percentage of farmed dogs. And this debate is not about what happens to the Hungarian races. That's all right, I think the same thing you wrote to protect the Hungarian races separately, be a little extra careful that we protect them even more - very good! But you shouldn't forget about that insignificant, remaining 95-97 percent of this. It is an honest part of this proposal - I really appreciate that, by the way, because I think it is very important to see the problems - that the impact assessment that the government has done and which justifies this proposal is about the arrival of so many complaints that are unmanageable and raises the question of inefficiency. And by the way, I don't think it's the devil's idea of what it's worth to the state. But I also think that in this case, this solution is significantly out of line. I think that if the government's intention was to cut red tape, it could be done in a number of ways, but this is not just a reduction in bureaucracy that we have in front of us, but it is about removing a significant part of the farmed dogs from public control. [[12.00]] This isn't right. This is by no means a correct and in no way a goal to be supported. Obviously, the dog is a special creature, obviously all living things are special, but in terms of living in a community with humans, it is definitely special, but also that it can be examined in this medium, and therefore breeding control has a very prominent role in this matter. I believe that in many cases there is no place for the state where it is, but in this case there is a place for state regulations, because it is quite simply necessary to force the dog farmers to do their work in accordance with the rules of responsible livestock farming, in compliance with the Hungarian laws. If this were, by the way, a general general's desire for all dog farmers, then obviously there wouldn't be this proposal and we wouldn't be talking here. But what we are talking about here is that unfortunately there are other aspects other than the national economy, such as the enforcement of legality and, for example, the question of animal welfare and responsible animal welfare. In all these cases, this proposal is a step backwards. At the same time, however, I think that the proposal is a bit discriminatory, because it is an artificial distinction between dog and dog. Obviously, we do not have to argue here that just because a dog is not so lucky to be born, let's say, as a puma, but as a poor German shepherd, he still deserves to be kept under normal conditions. But by the way, who loves the German Shepherd, and it is important for him to buy a pure-bred German Shepherd dog who has not been tortured, whose parents are being held under appropriate conditions, for example, it is important for him to buy from a dog farmer who does not torture a dog, and now, if this proposal is accepted, he will all find himself in a very difficult situation, because he will not receive any guarantees. The understandable question is, if I go shopping for, say, German Shepherd and ask the dog farmer if you didn't, by the way, torture this poor little German Shepherd kid? No, we didn't torture him. Your parents weren't tortured, were they? No, no, no, we didn't torture him, he had a separate room at Atrium Hyatt. Well, I'm not sure they're always telling the truth, let's just say, and then I put it very gently again. It is simply the public guarantee system that must be able to ensure that we can also combat animal cruelty in relation to dog breeding. The state has a very, very serious role to play in this. So I do not feel lucky to see this kind of distinction in that there are dogs and future farmers who deserve this kind of guarantee system, and some people do not deserve this guarantee system. Obviously, there are those who think that uncontrolled breeding can also be in the interest of someone - I think that it is in the interest of uncontrolled breeding people who see profit only in this otherwise noble profession. These are the people who keep the unfortunate animals locked in cages, and these are the people who hold these creatures in unworthy conditions as virtually a dividing machine. Obviously, I don't think there's a man in this room who thinks it's the right thing to do, and I don't even think there's a man in Parliament who thinks it's the right thing to do, or who doesn't think it's the right thing to do. But, Secretary of State, please consider this aspect as well. The State guarantee is very important in this respect. It is very important to see, in connection with dog breeding, that every dog can pass through the breeding process by enforcing the law - practically from birth to appreciation - because everyone has the right to this certainty. I understand that there are very, very many complaints, and in this, I really think it is right to correct the system, because there is something to be done about this situation, in which the substance, the Secretary of State, is also absolutely right. At the same time, I think that this proposal is against the objectives which are rightly contained in part of the explanatory statement and those which the Secretary of State has said on several occasions. I'm asking you to instead, what you're doing right now, build an animal protection signal system that is capable and effective in preventing these incidents and that can act. I mean, I get that you're saying that this is the next step, only when we take it down... So it's easy to create a system by taking the animals out of it. So when the animal welfare warning system doesn't otherwise cover 97 percent of the dogs, I have some assumption that it might not work well. So, let's not discriminate between dogs and dogs and run an animal control system. Thank you for listening. [[A rare applause in the ranks of MSZP and Jobbik.]]
u2016-03-02-70	Mr Zsolt Egyed, lead speaker for the Jobbik Group. Here you go.
u2016-03-02-71	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, With regard to the bill, allow me to fly a little further away from the subject first. Because this law, I think, is basically about what the state doesn't think is important, it wants to withdraw from it, but I would like to bring here much more important issues that are not yet dealt with. Where should we draw the line between the breeder and the breeder? This is where it begins, and I believe that this is the most important point in dog breeding today. Now, where's the line where you can pull this off? Dear Secretary of State, I'm sure you know that there are some people, and unfortunately, in the past few days, there has been an example of this in Hajdúböszörmény, a man who called himself a breeder kept nearly a hundred dogs in cages under indescribable circumstances, otherwise there was a cage in which there was a dead dog carcass; this man calls himself a breeder. According to my standards and my reading, it is the breeder who - to put it simply in Hungarian - goes not to quantity, but to quality. What does a breeder do before he wants an apple? He takes both parents to dysplasia, screens them for all hereditary diseases, and also strives for the best genetic puppies to be born and carry on the reputation of the kennel and achieve good results in Hungarian or international competitions. What is propagating about? The reproductive material is about creating as many dogs as possible in the shortest possible time, not caring about what diseases, what birth defects he has, and then selling them as soon as possible - abroad, if possible, because there is much more money to be paid for. This is where we are now in practice, and neither the laws nor these breeding organizations are currently able to stop this in Hungary, and unfortunately in Western Europe Hungary is already referred to as the country that supplies all Western Europe with discarded dogs - because this is what is happening at the moment: that is where these puppies are going. With regard to the proposal, I would also like to mention that I think it is important for the state and the government would also have a very important task to play a role in animal protection tasks. Because - the Secretary of State knows it, and I know it - they're making impossible regulations. Now I'd like to give you one example: this dog can be chained, he can't be chained. The regulation is basically about how you can't keep a dog in chains for a longer period of time, but doesn't regulate how long a chain can be kept, nor does it control what a longer time is. Maybe it's someone's longest time out of 24 hours for 22 hours and someone's got 2 hours. And if that happens, it's unproveable. I would like to draw the Secretary of State's attention to the fact that this uncontrollable thing will be corrected as soon as possible. But we can move on to these topics. I believe that there is also an unworthy situation for animal welfare organisations, which, in practical terms, carry out, in the case of 1 percent of their own resources, the tasks of the state, i.e. public interest tasks, which the lawnkeepers do not want or cannot perform. But let's go back to the bill for a while - I think that's what we need to talk about. It is clear that the intention is to strengthen the monopoly of MEOESZ by the government. In the event that the breeding of other non-Hungarian varieties is out of state control, they can only breed through MEOESZ because of their connection to the FCI. In this case, the situation close to before 1998 is restored, but not entirely, because MEOESZ does not have individual members because of its federal status. As far as I know, MEOESZ has played the VM Regulation 98 and has also kept the Association form MEOE, because the FCI is not registered as a member of MEOESZ, but as a member of MEOE. [[12.10]] This is apparent from the fact that the stamp of MEOE is not placed on the sheets of export origin, but on the MEOESZ, as a result of which all exports are forgeries, because the Decree No. 98 did not entitle MEOE, but MEOSESZ, to issue the sheets of export origin. I think, Mr Secretary of State, that it is also worth dealing with, and that we should pay attention to, because unfortunately - and let us have this suspicion - there have been a lot of laws here before the Parliament in the last 5-6 years that have practically not wanted to improve something, but have tried to help someone's interests, and, unfortunately, I have to say that after a while we are forced to look at these issues in this respect. The other thing I would like to highlight is that my fellow Member has already spoken about it in front of me, with the exception of the nine Hungarian dogs, you want to take your hands off all the types of dogs that are bred in Hungary, and which, by the way, have a very good result and have very famous breeders. Mr. Secretary of State has brought here the Chinese naked dog and the Maltese silk dog for example, so allow me to give you some examples: German Shepherd or even Belgian Shepherd. For example, I have brought these two dogs here for example, and as a better person and as a private person, I say that I am unconditionally and definitely in favour of putting the Hungarian dog breeds first, but if we are honest, the keepers of these nine types of dogs in Hungary, who bought registered dogs and puppies, are about 3-4 percent. Now, can we go to state agencies, police, defense, what kind of dogs do they use? They use German Shepherds, they use Belgian Shepherds. And then again, the question arises: if the police need good blood-lined puppies, how will they know or how will they be able to obtain genetically well-stocked puppies. So I think that this is a rather irresponsible decision or irresponsible suggestion for you to take your hands off these varieties. On the subject here, I have a few more thoughts, Mr. Secretary. What is that Hungarian dogs can be bred differently than non-Hungarians? But then, right, we can also talk about why the Hungarian pig is not distinguished from the foreign breed, why the Hungarian breed of horse is not distinguished from the foreign one, and this could be classified as a distinction between other types of dogs, which, in my view, is also in conflict with EU law. By this distinction not only dogs are distinguished depending on their origin, but also dog breeding organisations are distinguished. Why should the Hungarian vizsla be bred according to a different rule than the German Shepherd? Why should farming organisation be distinguished? Why will the Hungarian vizsla's paper of origin continue to be authentic, and why will it not be the German Shepherd's dog's? Why do you need a breeding programme for the visla, and why do you not need it for the German Shepherd? Why does the state distinguish buyers? Why do you get an authentic document next to your dog who buys a Hungarian vizsla, while you only get a private certificate, who buys a German Shepherd, which is also an interesting question, by the way. In my opinion, it is also against the Constitution and the Fundamental Law, because it discriminates between breeders and buyers. It is also interesting that since all Hungarian dogs have been removed from the law, these varieties will not be governed by the ministerial decree issued for the implementation of the law. Why there is a distinction between Hungarian and non-Hungarian dog breeds, it also means the following, Mr Secretary of State: one has the unique mark, the other does not; one has the number of cover, the other does not; one has to provide services to all holders, the other does not; one has the membership, the other does not; one has the foreign representation, the other does not; one is the authentic document, the other does not; one has to be a breeding director, the other does not. So I think, Mr State Secretary, that these issues should certainly be discussed, and here I have expressed my concerns about the bill, but I would like to go back to animal protection with a few more thoughts. I have heard from many Members of the Fidesz Parliament, and I have only heard that animal protection is very important to them, and I was shocked to find that my fellow Member's proposal in this regard was taken care of by the Fidesz majority with a smooth stay in the Committee on Justice. I ask Mr Secretary of State, and I would like you to give me a straight answer to that, and I have now presented at least five of the animal protection bill, that if animal protection is important to both the Fidesz majority and the government, then I believe that Mr Secretary of State can advance me that these proposals will be supported by you and the government in all circumstances. Since I believe that these are not political proposals, these are simple suggestions for improvement, they are nothing more than to stop the proliferation of animal cruelty in Hungary, and otherwise we want to make the life of one's best friend better. So that is what these legislative proposals are all about, and I believe that this is definitely eligible. I ask my fellow Members, my fellow Members, not to try to put politics into this, because it is not colour, it is not party, it is this direction, it is this will, I think it is necessary to give a common background in order to finally reach a level that can also lay the foundations for European livestock farming in Hungary. I would also like to say this once again to Mr Secretary of State, because I cannot stress this enough to finally do something, put it on paper, put it into law, what makes the breeder different from the breeder, because in Hungary at the moment, I believe that breeding, dog breeding, has practically grown into an industry, and this must be blocked, because it also makes the genetics of the breeds worse, and on the other hand, I believe that it is an inhuman act. So I would like to ask the Secretary of State for this, and I look forward to your answers to the questions raised. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2016-03-02-72	Thank you very much. Now it's time for LMP's lead speaker. Congressman István Ikotity, please.
u2016-03-02-73	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, Once again, we have a bill that proves that the work in the Hungarian Parliament is far from public affairs, public interest and answers to real questions. The government side is regularly acting as a protector of various private interests, even at the cost of aggravating the problem it is trying to tackle with the instruments of legislation. Right now, the problem of dog breeding is the example and the evidence. For decades, politics has been trying to cope with the task inherited from the previous system, so far without success. In Hungary, the registration of dogs and the award of breeding ratings were the privileges of the National Association of Hungarian Ebo-breeders, MEOE, prior to the change of regime. One of the oldest NGOs in the country preserved this right and, of course, its revenue in the 1990s. First, in 1997 during the legislative harmonisation preparatory to accession to the EU, it came to light that changes should be made, since in most EU Member States, those licences belong to breed societies that carry out quality assurance of the particular varieties. This is important because the breed society is interested in the fact that only the characteristics of the specimens that are really worthy of breeding should be inherited. However, if a body which is not closely linked to the breeders of a dog breed issues the herdbooks and ratings, it can focus on as much paper as possible, i.e. maximizing revenue, and the result may be dilution of the breeding stock. The proposal for EU conformation regulation was presented by the Socialist Minister of Agriculture Imre Németh at the beginning of 1998 but was already adopted during the first Orbán government, under the Ministry of József Torgyán. The point of the new system would have been that the right to registration and breeding ratings could be obtained in a tender. Such applications have also been issued, in which only breed societies have won. [[12.20]] However, after the amendment of the legislation, a lengthy legal battle began, involving the agricultural purse, the Supreme Public Prosecutor's Office and the Constitutional Court, in addition to the MEOE and the associations of varieties. In the meantime, the practice of double registration was established, since there were two types of herd-books available in the country, and for each breed, such as the German Shepherd, MEOE and the breed society also gave them a herd-book. The subject of the dispute appeared to be whether the MEOE could legally organise dog exhibitions, these exhibitions actually also decide on breeding ratings, and the national association argued that this was a matter of the statutory activities of a civil society organisation which they wish to intervene in outside. In 2009, the Constitutional Court also declared that the activities of MEOE were non-violent, but at that time FVM stated that the refusal or withdrawal of the licence for registration and breeding ratings did not affect the legal function of the association under a separate law, but only the administrative activity related to livestock production, which does not fall within the profile of MEOE. The main point of MEOE in the debate was that the national association represented Hungary in the International Association of Kinology and that the latter organisation only accepts the registration books issued by MEOE, hardly regardless of whether it participates in the award of all MEOE paper, i.e. only these registration books can be used in international relations. The dog business is basically based on export, and the documents in Hungary alone are not worth much. In the end, it is money, and it is a lot of money. Revenues related to registration and breeding are in the order of billions, and dog exports move ten billion every year, as the prices of a registered puppy in Hungary and Western Europe may vary by ten times. It is a fact that MEOE's pedigree practice is much more lenient than the breed societies, and it is likely that this attitude has played a role in the development of Hungarian dog factories and that Hungary has become the EU's number one cheap dog exporter. It is typical that more than 10 times as many books are issued every year in the country than in neighbouring Austria, which is not justified by the difference between the number of dog populations. According to the breed societies, the volume of orphaned and stray dogs beyond imagination is also linked to the fact that many people are trying to make a living in quantitative dog breeding, and the supply is now significantly above demand. Every year, between 50 and 60 thousand Hungarian puppies are legally sent abroad, and black exports are of the same magnitude. The Orbán government, in possession of the legislative power, committed itself in 2012 to settle the unblessed situation, but not face-to-face. He tried to drive the MEOE off the course with various hidden bill proposals, threats to the excessive fines imposed on illegal breeding sights. For example, a requirement to carry out registration without recognition by a breeding organisation, to classify a breeding animal, to conduct a public breeding animal judgment, to provide other breeding services or to issue a certificate of origin has been introduced into the infringement law. However, it was already apparent that Hungarian politics would not be able to deal with this issue on a party-based or professional basis. In 2013, the rules following the European model were finally missed by reference to the dog exhibition, and now we see the Fidesz finally retreating from business interests. It only saves indigenous breeds of dogs from breeding chaos, allowing the post-communist breeding business to open up for all other breeds. At the time, the then Fideszes State Secretary, József Ángyán, argued that we would be in very much trouble if we constantly amended the laws by trying to resolve this type of conflict through occasional legislative amendment. I don't think that's what lawmaking is for. While I understand that if this helps to organize events, then such a tool may arise, I think that this may not be the basic tool. Legality should be respected. This aspect, i.e. compliance with laws, public interest, animal protection and dog breeding, is no longer involved. Their obscure deals in the background leave fishing in confusion, the operation of the rural dog factories, the service of trucking dog exports and all the tax, animal protection and other abuse similar to the above, with the active support of the almost two-thirds majority of governments and without any valid justification. LMP will not participate in this negotiation on the skin of dogs and good-natured dogs. The problems of dog breeding and animal welfare will only get worse from this bill, which we do not want to assist. If, on the other hand, the government decides to settle and clean up the Hungarian breeding industry, which is a disgrace to Europe, then we will definitely be partners in that. Thank you for your attention.
u2016-03-02-74	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. There is no independent Member in the Chamber, no two-minute speeches have been made, so there will be further speeches. The first is Mr Zoltán Magyar, who applied in writing. Here you go.
u2016-03-02-75	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Well, I don't envy the Secretary of State. If I count it correctly, you're the fourth secretary of state in the last five years, and you're supposed to be on the subject, so breeding dogs eats the secretary of state pretty quickly, as I see it. What can we see now? The state is fully capitulating from the area. I would just like to quote briefly, although it would be worth reading the entire report for the sake of the whole story, which was made from previous debates, but I would now spare the leaders of the minutes and the House, but I would certainly like to summon Mr Budai State Secretary to a number of times. "Mr. Congressman," he said to me, "I will lay down the oath for you, who are here, that if the agreement we have involved the parties in will not lead to results, this is the end of it. Following October 1 - here in 2013, Mr Secretary of State, who was hiding, who was not. I'm really serious about this. This is precisely what the Secretary of State has said about this unblessed state and its elimination. The former Fidesz State Secretary laid down the oath here before the National Assembly, and he said this to the untenable states against MEOE. There's still time to quote him. Otherwise, he hung up on the grand oath several times and told me how hard the Hungarian government is and how much he stands up for the interests of real dog breeding and Hungarian national interests. Well, it's been a long time since then, and we can see that the government has completely given up this fight and is moving out of this area. Another problem is that we do not see any guarantee that state involvement in Hungarian breeds - I am talking about the nine indigenous breeds here; this part of the legislation, which we support exceptionally - does not create a competitive disadvantage for the nine indigenous breeds. At the current reading, I see that this would be more of a competitive disadvantage for them, thus achieving the opposite objective. We also do not understand that this unlimited free market mechanism, which is led to the others, would serve the interests of dogs and decent dog farmers, the interests of Hungarian people. I do not list the many negative examples that my excellent fellow Members who spoke before me have said from all opposition groups. That's what I'm experiencing, and I'm getting requests like this, so we certainly don't think that's something to support. This should not be in the interest of animal welfare or decent breeders. By the way, we are also interested in avoiding party politics, but this will not be achieved if the state withdraws from the territory. We can see what happened after the first amendment marked by Torgyán, which caused the most problems during the first Orbán government. We can see what's been happening since then. It seems that the dog farmers have been unable to resolve this problem among themselves, that is what we see, but we do not think that the solution is that the state is setting the reins and not dealing with the over 90% exponent part of dogs. We consider this to be an infinitely serious mistake, and, of course, as my fellow Member Zsolt Egyed has already said in the keynote round, we will not be able to support this amendment. [[12.30]] I trust that this position will be overruled and that my fellow members of the government will act as hard as they do against non-regime associations, as they are also known in other areas to do; I am thinking here of thugs, say, in the context of a referendum initiative. We would have expected the same toughness against those organizations who have been doing nothing for decades, only blackmailing the current Hungarian governments by having the international licenses and thereby blocking the livelihood and work of other breeders' organizations. It must also be said that nothing else has happened here but that, due to the secret relationship of some - to put it mildly - mysterious, vaguely well-known international organizational and domestic leaders, a cooperation has been created that can keep the other breeders' organizations and the Hungarian governments in check. I would also ask the Secretary of State not to draw a far-reaching conclusion from the fact that the breeding organisations do not leave the MEOE, that this would mean that they are satisfied with the work of the association and are satisfied with its leadership. This merely means that these breeders' organisations need an international breeding book in order to be able to compete in international competitions, so that the dogs they produce have an adequate price and are able to show up on the international market with these dogs. I therefore find it a mistake to conclude that the reason that cleansing and change within dog society did not occur is because they would be so suitable leaders and would be so pleased with the various dog breeding organizations, otherwise, with the alliance. It's not like that. So once again, I would urge the government to put on the glove, and now, instead of the many deadlines, to finally establish order, and do not allow such a breeding organisation, with any international background and assistance, to keep governments in check and make the interests of decent breeders impossible. That would be good for the dogs, too. Once again, we agree with the highlight of the nine Hungarian breeds, but I would expect at least the guarantees at the touch level that will contain it and prove to us that this special treatment will not cause a competitive disadvantage for the Hungarian breeds. If this is going to benefit them or help them in a positive way, then, of course, I agree with this, and if this cannot be described in law, I understand that, but there must be some assurance in this regard, I would ask Mr Secretary of State. Thank you for the opportunity. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2016-03-02-76	Thank you very much. Congressman Gábor Staudt, representative of Jobbik. Here.
u2016-03-02-77	Thank you very much. I will try to make a brief comment, Mr President. A great deal has been said before me, and the speeches have roughly marked the course of the debate and its history. I particularly liked the fact that Zoltán Magyar quoted Gyula Budai's earlier statement. And indeed, this statement was made not only here at the Parliament, but also at the background meetings where I had the pleasure of being there. I've tried to be a kind of mediator in domestic dog cases, although I don't call myself an expert, just as a lawyer in this area. So I'm trying to judge the situation from the point of view of the law. Obviously, the professional aspects of dog breeding should be known and implemented by the organisations to do so. On the other hand, Minister of State Gyula Budai has long been no longer Secretary of State, and he has failed in this project as much as he seems to be in accountability, and unfortunately he has not been able to produce much results as a government commissioner for accountability. I would also like to say to the State Secretary present that, unfortunately - and this proves that a promise of a State Secretary or a reference to a State Secretary about what will happen if the state, government or Parliament does not meet its requirements, unfortunately, it is little, and in the past period - if we look at only the last six years, since Jobbik has been here in Parliament, we can see that unfortunately the promises have not been honoured. And then we can see this proposal, which is coming in now, which is, in some ways, nuances, from a different perspective, which makes things worse, because the chaos that has evolved and they have tried to put order in it by the various civil professionals, the government, the Parliament, the parties, parliamentary factions, involved in the debate, seems to lead to a result that is only good for some interests. I can say that because it sounds really good that the state is pulling out. In some areas, it may sound very good to say that we leave it to the civilians, give them all the privileges, there is no place for the state, and the era of great peace and joy will come. Unfortunately, that won't happen, because the state exodus, as I said, and I'm going to prove it, will have its winners and losers. The - and this is what the bill is about - that in the future there will be a public task only in relation to the Hungarian dog breeds in relation to breeding, in relation to indigenous breeds, a problem of interpretation or a problem of the world view, because I do not think that other organisations that are trying to deal with livestock or dog breeding should not be kept under the eye of the State in this way or in such a way. You have to keep an eye on him, and I think the example is good, which I have heard before me, and also that, say, when the various law enforcement agencies want to buy a dog, it is obviously necessary to justify to a police chief that he bought a mixed dog or bought, say, a pure German sheepdog. And since the state doesn't really care who bred a pure German Shepherd, there will be other ways to prove that this dog is pure or not, or who bred a dog that was a race-clean dog yesterday, why tomorrow can't do that. But I do not want to run ahead so far, it is written in the law that, on day 180, the recognition of the Kinological Association and of breeding organizations which are recognised as non-Hungarian dog breeds will cease by the force of the law. Now, boom, we could say, and then again - and here I would refer to the legal certainty element of the legal system, because these organisations have done a great deal in the past to preserve this status. They put a lot of money into this, they put a lot of professional experience and work into this task, and, by the way, the government has rewritten the rules several times over the last few years by assisting the Parliament, they had to comply with the new rules constantly, and we see that when a situation develops, we draw a new one, and we do not see that we are playing with human lives in the sense that these breeders, who have done their job with honor, not only could lose their jobs, not only can they lose their profession, but in some cases - because there are such trends - they will also lose their country, because they will go elsewhere, they will go to Highlands, Austria or even Yugoslavia, if there were still... So they're heading for Serbia, to the post-jugular countries or even to Croatia, if they have an international relationship, and they can join the system there. So you must leave your country professionally, because it is quite certain that the Hungarian system was unique in Europe, as stated in the explanatory memorandum. Only in chaos was this Hungarian system unique, not that everywhere... - and, if you can, give examples of this, Mr Secretary of State, whether there is a state in which there is absolutely uncontrollable withdrawal from dog breeding, not dealing with it, or creating the given professional framework, and leaving it in control of the civilian sphere, I can understand that. But by not caring at all about what's going to happen, I don't know such an example, and that's where we're going with this proposal, that's what it's going to create. As I said, it is also stated in the explanatory memorandum that the state rules on the breeding of other dogs, except indigenous ones, will cease to exist, will not be under official control, and the reins will be completely thrown into the horses. That is why there is an echo that I have said that farmers who want to continue with what they have started in their work will go to different neighbouring countries and do not want to be integrated into the MEOE, MEOESZ system. [[12.40]] Because there may be debates in many cases, of course, but if the state withdraws, it will mean that the only person who can issue a certificate from an international organisation can deliver the private document it has issued can put, say, an FCI seal on it. Because it will be acceptable, obviously not the Hungarian activity, but the international organisation in the background will be acceptable. Anyone who can't do this for any reason, whether he doesn't like it, because of personal disputes or I don't know what other reasons can be listed, will actually close the gates, and by leaving the state, he will only allow room for those who have a small international backwind, so he can be part of an international organization. And as far as I know, the FCI can only have one member per country. So it can't be that different organizations are checking in. So this can be seen as a monopoly law that, when a country has won, it must take care of it, and with public control, it must channel the civil sphere and control these activities. So, leaving with the previous example, if the army or police want to buy a German Shepherd or a Doberman dog, they can, of course, buy it from anyone, but who was recognised yesterday could issue a document tomorrow, so they can't buy it from them, and if the wind doesn't blow like that, then, in any case, until, let's say, in a neighbouring country, the breeder gets out and gets recognition there, he doesn't know. But obviously, then the authorities won't buy it from him, because we don't think that although they bought it at the same place or at the same breeder, that if he can't give us a document tomorrow, it can be accounted for, let's say, in the police or in the military. So that's the problem with the proposal. And here, Secretary of State, you have indicated that there may be something going on in the Ministry of Justice, and we would very much like to hear more about it. We hope that there is something good going on there, but then I don't understand, believe me, that I really don't know the way in which you do business in the agricultural purse, but if you bring it in here now, and there are absolutely clear revelations that the state will withdraw from the rest of its kind, then either there will be a counter-proposal from the Ministry of Justice - I don't know, I don't know what's coming - or we should have brought it in at the same time to reassure opposition representatives here. Believe me, this is also an important aspect, so if there are two proposals, then we would like to see both, because the picture will come together from this. But believe me, if this is accepted, we'll just continue to increase the chaos. And by the way, you may not be interested in this right now, but we are creating an unfair situation - right now in the field of dog breeding - that the state does not care how much the various breeders who live in it have invested, how much professional work, how much money, the state now overrides the rules, and the system that has not worked so far remains. I believe that this should have been prepared in an appropriate way professionally. I don't know that football is played twice by eleven people, and in the end the Germans win - it's true that the Germans are doing well here and there - but in the end we feel that we are trying to convince each other at the National Assembly, and in the end we always do not know what to call them now, that interest comes out as winners, and that is always by accident, that life has brought us to life. So, Secretary of State, that is what should be answered, and I must say that the answer will be followed not only by us here, but also by breeding organisations, believe me. And I know that you are not all-powerful, and the agricultural purse has a minister, a prime minister, and the Prime Minister has friends even in doggy terms, what God gives you, we have even heard that there are dogs who are in love with Viktor Orbán, because press reports about this have also been published, and it is difficult to do what to do if, say, Viktor Orbán is being tried by consultants on these issues to tell us what the direction should be, whose dog is a fan of Viktor Orbán. In this case, the decision-making accuracy may be a bit disoriented, but I ask that not such subjective opinions determine the role of such an important sector, but rather more detailed professional discussions. And, believe me, Secretary of State, we will be the happiest if a law is passed that will bring comfort to everyone, not that certain organisations will have a monopoly position in Hungary, and others will have to emigration, not to live with what Gyurcsány has already said, that those who do not like it can go abroad. These people will do this with a bad heart if they have to do so. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2016-03-02-78	Thank you. Mr Zoltán Magyar asked for a two-minute speech. Here.
u2016-03-02-79	Thank you, Mr. President. I would just like to ask Mr Secretary of State to try to respond in the debate, so that we may have the opportunity to respond, because at the end of the discussion, we do not know, and we have received a lot of letters from various breeders' organisations, which now reveal problems that have not yet been said in the debate. Of course, these will be submitted to the legislation in the form of better amendments, and we would encourage pro-government representatives to support them. I would like to emphasise once again that I think it is a very bad direction that if the state does not have the power of an organisation in a given area, let us say, it simply withdraws from it. And while many pro-government speeches, speeches by government members from 2012, 2013 have underlined how important public engagement is here and how unimaginable the area is without you trying to get it right, compared to this, they are arguing in the opposite direction at 180 degrees, and they say how good it will be if dogs solve their own problems among themselves. I also find it extremely unfair that, indeed, those who have taken this seriously have put a lot of money into it, the existence of the family depends on it, and they are doing their job fairly, and now they are practically left to themselves. And my other problem is, what if the other animal species come up with the same thing, what if two years from now, we have to talk about the same thing because of the cats or because of the ferrets? I consider this to be a very bad direction, Mr Secretary of State, there are conflicts in almost all breeding circles and in social groups, and this is an inherent part of human existence, and we can accept that, but we cannot accept that the state is giving up the fight in a situation where, by the way, a few months or years ago, it considered engagement to be very important. And I also find it unacceptable for a lobby based on sexual orientation to decide who has international rights and who doesn't. Thank you. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2016-03-02-80	Dear Parliament, I will ask if anyone else wishes to take the opportunity to speak. [[There's no signal.]] I'm gonna say no. The general debate is closed. I'll ask the Secretary of State if he wants to reflect. [[For signal:]] Yeah. Mr. Secretary of State István Nagy has the floor.
u2016-03-02-81	Yes, I would definitely like to answer the questions raised. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Let me start by saying that fair breeders have nothing to fear. All of them expressed their desire for relief in dog society. You have to admit, for two decades, since we've been trying to regulate it, there's no peace in dog society. So, by the power of the law, perhaps precisely because the lawmaker is far enough away from the breeder, it is not possible to establish rules that each breeder can agree with. Let me say to my fellow Member, István Horváth, that yes, you are absolutely right, this law is a chance. This is the chance that dogs have to take, because it gives them the opportunity to self-regulation. And I have to say, the state and the dogs are a lot further apart than the dogs from the dogs. So if two breeders can't keep each other in check, they can't land between themselves what breeding is and what breeding is, or they can't signal the association to do an investigation here, because there is one, the state has a much harder opportunity to explore them than one of the breeders about the other. Let me say to my fellow Member, László Kiss; he says that a significant part of the problems are what MEOE generates. [[12.50]] Doggies are like football fans: everyone knows how to do this, and somehow everyone sees the same thing differently, somehow everyone wants to get involved, and there's a conflict of interests going on in this field. It calls for a withdrawal from nationalisation, but at the same time points out that the state is happy to play a role in other areas. It's like a bunny's hat: if there is, it's because if there isn't, that's why you have to hurt the wheel. He says there's discrimination between dogs. I think it's safe to do that. Yes, it is in the interest of the Hungarian State that the breeds of dogs that have developed here have evolved here, and these varieties have developed here, so that the state takes care of their breeding, and of course regulates this. It was very true, fellow Members, when they said that only 2-3 percent. Isn't that a shame? Shouldn't we be thinking that this isn't right? After all, Hungarian dogs are here in Hungary! So the maintenance of this, the further control of this, is that we place a Hungarian breed of dogs in the national parks, and the national parks will be responsible for maintaining these dogs, controlling their breeding, I think it's an infinitely good thing, and we really need to think about why in today's world only 2-3 percent The presence and breeding of Hungarian dogs in Hungary. [[István Ikotity is replaced by Ádám Mirkóczki in the notary seat.]] I must say that my fellow Member László Kiss says that the state is a guarantee that the processes will work well. There was no peace in the dog society, no peace to function properly. And let me ask you, my dear fellow Member, not to underestimate the power and importance of civil society. In many cases, it has been demonstrated that they can enforce their interests either against the government or against the State. Then why shouldn't we trust the dog society that they can clean themselves up once and for all? If we do not say that, as in livestock, they have such economic interests, but among themselves, breeders have serious economic interests. If they cannot achieve the interests of decent breeders in this area overpowering the propagating material, then the problem is long gone. If they can't get the word out who can't be taken from, because there are practically inadequate checks on the offspring, no proper registration checks or performance checks, then there's a big problem. You can't fool customers. Once yes, twice maybe, but in the long run, I'm sure I can't. And yet the dog society, the breeders, is not a large, wide base, they know each other, and they have basically the canals of the dog routes that go abroad. I do not believe that in the long term the benefits of reproduction can be sustained. I'm really rooting for it, and I'm really rooting for it so that the hardest way to hit them is to take them away from all possibilities. I'd also like to tell László Kiss and the others that the Animal Protection Act will follow. The Ministry of Justice has begun to draft the law, to consult all animal welfare organizations, now they are invited to the Ministry of Justice, these consultations begin. I very much hope that for all of us we will have a law that will bring us sufficient comfort to ensure that the treatment of animals is maintained with guarantees. I'd like to put an end to a belief. The fact that the state withdraws from other dog breeds and only remains in the Hungarian breed does not mean that the animal protection law will not apply to other dogs. That would be totally funny, it would be very wrong, and I apologize if we just saw that you couldn't kick a poodle dog, but you could kick a setter; it couldn't exist, and obviously that's not what the Animal Protection Act is about. These consultations will take place and, of course, after these consultations, we will guarantee the right to life and the right to proper maintenance for all animals. I am telling my fellow Member, Zsolt Egyed, where the line lies between breeding and breeding. Where there is decency and dishonesty. But I have to say, as the two decades-old example shows, the state has failed to play an effective role here, it has failed, it has not had the means to put an end to this. The market must force this to cease, so one dog farmer must be able to act against the other in such a way as to withdraw his membership of the association and to withdraw his licenses in order to be able to breed here. We see more and more in other associations, pet farmers, pigeon farmers, what disciplinary procedures there are, so the associations act very hard to ensure the integrity of the profession. I am also encouraging the dog organizations to stop fighting with each other, not crowding or letting each other into the field, but choosing between a decent breeder and an unfair breeder. I am asking them to stand up for honest breeders and apply very harsh interests against dishonest ones. István Ikotity says to my fellow Member: he says that the law is far from reality, but at the same time he quite rightly lists as a historical overview the situation that has developed throughout the dog breeding process. You are absolutely right, my fellow Member, and I think that when you mentioned this list, you too must have felt that you had to say that yes, the state must do something. There is no other option, there is no better, because if you think about how wide the whole problem is, how wide-sighted it is, then you simply have to rely on the breeders themselves, the associations themselves, to make order between themselves, which is the responsibility and responsibility of the state, to act hard in it. My fellow Member, Zoltán Magyar asked what real dog breeding was and how he thought that state protection could be a disadvantage for Hungarian breeds. Well, well, well. Is it that everything is regulated and that the state protects its own kind with strict laws and tries to take the lead in breeding, even if it can be a disadvantage? No! What I'm saying is that this is what you have to adapt to the production of all the other varieties. There will be order when the associations, the breeding organizations, have the strength to act in the strictest possible way for their own kind. It's not in my interest to buy from a skeptic. It's not in my interest to buy a dog at two thousand forints cheaper if it's dysplastic or whatever. It's not in my interest, and when I do, I'll find out who's worth it. Bad news among breeders can be fatal to any breeder, but that's not enough. I urge all breeding organisations to make a distinction between fair and unfair breeders, to exclude from their ranks and to withdraw the authorization of those who do so. Gábor Staudt, my dear fellow Member, created the work of Gyula Budai. I don't want to look back at historical perspectives. [[Defiance. Ancient Novak: Historical Person!]] I would prefer to talk about now and to say that we should put our heads on the task that lies ahead, because the past has consequences, and those consequences must always be avoided by today in order to say that we can hope for a better future. [[The Foreman of Novak: In what? About what?]] Organisations must be monitored by the State, and I fully agree with that. There are clear general breeding guidelines to be drawn up, and I have mentioned that various legislative amendments must be made here: amendments to the law on the organisation of gambling, on animal husbandry and on the protection and welfare of animals are to be made, so these wishes, requests, and all these problems arising can be resolved in these legislative amendments. [[13.00]] Gábor Staudt said that the state doesn't care who bred the breed fairly, but I have to say that civilians do. The breeders do. So there must be very strict order. Believe me, anyone who wants to buy a dog, be the police or anyone, will look very seriously at who they're buying from. I'm just very sad about what happened next, and I have to admit it. He says we need to leave the country professionally for someone who doesn't want to join the MEOE. Well, let me ask you something. Is this association from the devil? If it belongs to the dogs, there are elections, it can be decided, not in their own hands, how to form the association? Is it better to go to war, dig our way into the trenches, and go abroad to a professional organization, perhaps? I wouldn't accept any if that paper came from abroad. I'm completely honest, but that's just my private opinion. So if, at home, a person can't stand his place in different competitive situations, then it's very wrong to run abroad and try to do it from there. [[Dr. Gábor Staudt: No contest.]] There's a race to be made. There's not one breeder anywhere, there's gotta be more competition. [[Dr. Gábor Staudt: They have a seal.]] I have to say it's a race or not. The organization or the association must be the guarantee, because there is one thing we must not forget: there are no two German Shepherds, just one. A guarantee must therefore be given, and one of the most important things is to be able to comply with the description of the variety in everything that appears in the breed's book. There's no way I'm going anywhere else, because there, let's say, they let me have an ick angle, there's no way I'm getting exceptions or anything else. The only way to keep it up is to keep it up. And the best of them are the most specialised, the associations that breed these varieties, and are distinguished in the maintenance of the breed or in the breeding of the breed. Because you can't let breeding go in different directions, and in the eastern part of the country, in the western part, it's a third or a quarter breed of dogs, either in the south or in the north. No. To do that, we must insist very strictly that the description of whether it is a German Shepherd or a puli is understood the same everywhere in the world. I very much hope that the competition that can practically develop so, self-control, self-organization, which can develop, will bring the affairs of dog society forward, will bring forward the affairs of dogs, and I very much hope that by remaining in the nine breeds of dogs, the state will be interested in maintaining breeding, especially in not spreading two to three percent in Hungary, it is a very important task that these types of dogs will become decisive in Hungary, and then we can say that this law, which we have just put before this House, will fulfil its role. I ask you to help with your amendments and suggestions, to improve this bill, and then, when it comes back to us, to support it with your votes. Thank you very much. [[It's a rare round of applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-03-02-82	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, I would like to inform you that the amendment proposals can be submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the discussion of our agendas today. It is now time for the speeches after the agenda. For the first time, Mr President Novak made a statement after the agenda, in five minutes. Here you go.
u2016-03-02-83	Dear Parliament, The gift of God is the Hungarian child. Orbán also responds to the opposite famous opinion of the conference, which takes place in the organization of another Hungarian movement led by Edda Budaházy, with the support of Jobbik's party foundation, as we consider the demographic issue very important. The specific theme of the Third National Population Conference is now Hungary and Europe's dramatic population depletion and the context of illegal immigration. This time, there will be not only Hungarian but also excellent foreign lifeguards and politicians among the performers. This is how we want to look at the now, we can say, pan-European problem, which is actually threatening the disappearance of white humanity from the globe. Yeah, white people are dying out, not just, say, white sharks or white pheasants. But if we are afraid of the accusation of racism, then we should only push for the survival of the latter. There's news, for example, here's one of the titles: "Death threatens the great white shark. Well, actually, I'm just afraid of the shark, not the cheap accusations, so as president of the Parliament's Population Sub-Committee, I'd also like to ring the alarm bell. It is my duty to draw attention to this serious problem. Indeed, the fact that the annual report of the KSH came out the other day gives us the fact that the population loss, the so-called natural weight loss - if we do not include migration, so we should not take it so naturally, but still - this figure, called natural weight loss, grew from 35 thousand in 2014 to 40,000 in 2015. Jobbik therefore again calls for serious, more serious demographic policy measures. We have also tabled a bill aimed at reducing the VAT burden on products for child rearing to 5%. Unfortunately, the government did not say to us on multiple requests, which was stated in Jobbik's programme, however, that the biggest problem of Hungarians is population loss. It's not one of them, it's the biggest problem. This is important for the government to say at last, because then, for example, it would not be possible to sweep away our various proposals for demographic change by reference to different public finances and budgetary considerations. This is what the government should say, that the demographic situation is catastrophic, and without radical change, let alone the pension system, but the whole social security, what's more, the whole public finances are unsustainable, and we are threatened with a breakdown. The government should finally face the ageing of society, the population explosion of Roma and the emigrating of active-age Hungarians to the West in nearly 1 million. It's not just a brain drain anymore, it's a people drain. For this reason, the demographic situation is in fact much worse than the official KSH data. Indeed, we have to face what the Constitutional Judge Béla Hell wrote in his book that Gypsyism is doubling from generation to generation. This is the population explosion of Gypsyism, while Hungarians are halved by generations. However, according to the official fertility index, the number of children per woman is around 1.4, but that is the aggregate data of Hungarian citizens. If we take the gypsy out of this, for example, we can easily conclude that the people of the Hungarian nationality are already under 1. This means that no woman has any children on average, and this means that Hungarians are halved from generation to generation. The Jobbik therefore, while acknowledging and supporting the government's family policy efforts, they prove to be little, let us say. This is why, for example, we urge greater support for the birth of the first child - as the municipality has already introduced to our proposal - in areas where public transport or camping is still cheaper for large family members only today. It would be important to extend the support for full-time motherhood and to abolish the care fee in kindergarten for those who choose to work in parallel, since the previous Fidesz government has unfortunately introduced the payment of crèches, and the payment of the daycare service itself. We consider it urgent that a predictable family support system, like pensions, follow-up to inflation, increased support for the flask baby programme, family-friendly higher education, demographic land programme in order to bring young couples who are susceptible to it to the ground, and the introduction of parental annuities to automatically support their parents from the child's personal income tax. We could continue our proposals for a long time, but one thing is certain: demographic change and more radical population policy measures are needed. Thank you for your attention and welcome to our conference on Saturday. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2016-03-02-84	Dear Parliament, After the agenda, Mr Zoltán Magyar applied for a speech, in 5 minutes. Here.
u2016-03-02-85	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Fellow Members! I asked for the opportunity to speak after the agenda because there are some issues here that I feel that it is not enough to emphasise once or twice between the walls of this House, but must be brought up in order, because the government is apparently not learning from their lessons. Last week has not only brought the difficult referendum, but there has been another referendum initiative, and today the Jobbik Movement for Hungary has also initiated one, and I would like to argue for it, even so that my fellow members of the government can sign it and encourage their own voters to do so. [[13.10]] The MSZP had a referendum initiative last week, which was also adopted, and the collection of signatures could start, which is specifically intended to stop ground privatisation. Of course, Jobbik supports this proposal and we welcome the opportunity to hold a referendum on this. Our strong opinion is that the government has a dog's duty to stop privatisation at least until the owners themselves, the Hungarian people, decide whether or not one of our last national assets, the Hungarian state farmland, can be sold. Jobbik's proposal puts the issue in a broader perspective, since in a sustainable, long-term, permanent solution to the fate of the Hungarian land is only possible to protect it in a globalised world if we can finally change the accession treaty signed in a treasonous manner. Therefore, in this initiative, we urge the Government to amend this Treaty and not to look at the land as capital. So our question is:. Do you agree that the Parliament will adopt a resolution inviting the Government to initiate the amendment of our EU Accession Treaty in order to enable Hungarian farmers, except the Hungarian State, local governments and churches, to acquire the ownership of the Hungarian agricultural land? The reason why it had to be so long was because the government plays a lot with the words, and, as we know, in his interpretation, unlike the Hungarian language, the. foreign language is no longer what it means to any Hungarian person who normally thinks, but, in the view of the government, European Union citizens are no longer foreign citizens. I could give you a lot of similar examples, so we definitely think it's necessary to stop this madness. There are so many changes now - because this is a repetition of our earlier question - that there has been a new interpretation of European law, at least in the argument system of the National Electoral Commission, because while Jobbik's many proposals were previously rejected on the grounds that European Union law is international law, there is no way to hold a referendum on it, compared to the government referendum initiative with quota and deportation, which could now be passed through, while it concerns rather hard European Union law. This does not mean that Jobbik will not support it, we too stand very firmly in favour of not having a single person of a different culture over our heads, against the will of the Hungarian people, but at the same time this opens the way for us to make significant progress in protecting the soil, and we may be able to open up these issues and make this amendment. Of course, this will have to be done by the government, and that is why we have now presented this referendum initiative again. We hope that the Election Committee will give Jobbik the right, if in hindsight, but in the end, and that the collection of signatures can also begin on this issue. The reasons why privatisation should be stopped until then could be given a number of examples. Jobbik also deeply condemns the fact that the current government has continued its activities for the past 25 years, and is effectively destroying national assets, while, of course, public debt continues to increase or stagnate at best. We condemn this process in the first place. But in addition, the goals set by the government itself when it launched the ground privatisation were not realized either. Here it is marked by the support of local family farmers and the constant expression of this, which should be set as an example. This was so unsuccessful - let me just give you two examples - that in terms of the seven largest agri-interests, for example, agricultural subsidies increased by 50.6 percent between 2011 and 2014, these are the latest figures, which I think show just how much local support remains here at the level of communication. But even the assisted area itself increased by 78.8 percent, taking into account these seven interests. I think that is enough argument to support both referendum initiatives by decent people. Thank you for the opportunity, Mr. President. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2016-03-02-86	Thank you very much, Congressman. Mr Dániel Z. Kárpát, representative of Jobbik. Here you go.
u2016-03-02-87	Mr President, Dear House, I am not saying that we are used to it, but we are not surprised that when we bring up more important topics after the agenda, I can count on one hand the number of pro-government representatives who are sitting or standing in front of them and the respondents are quite simply missing. This is also the case with regard to the question of the extension of the eviction moratorium, as the temporary exemption that protected hundreds of Hungarian families from eviction will now expire on 1 March. This would have given the government some grace or grace time to prevent, during the winter period, when this exemption exists, a well-educated legislative package or well-educated proposals from triggering the auction tsunami and the mass of eviction that is expected to start. It can be seen that 210,000 enforcement cases have been suspended in the previous so-called foreign exchange credit accounts, but there are still 15 thousand real estate for auction, which is a huge number, and in fact, what the Government of Hungary now allows is that according to previous quarterly quotas, hundreds of Hungarians can still lose their homes, in bad cases, according to the governance and guidance of the banking system. We could say that these are the tough and strong rules of the market economy, but the main problem is that there was no market economy here, when the government made a pact between the Banking Association and the EBRD last year, and essentially agreed not to impose additional burdens on the banks concerned either in connection with a currency settlement or in a different way. But what happened was that these people took credit at HUF 165-170, and then they got their hands on a market rate with a price of HUF 256 or more than car loaners. The vast wealth between the two was unduly swallowed by the banks, and even by the so-called currency changeovers, the Hungarian National Bank had a hundred billion-dollar profit of some estimates, a profit of 200 billion, a profit that we can safely consider as public money. Compared to this, the majority of Fidesz-KDNP voted that the conditions for spending the surplus at the Hungarian National Bank are essentially encrypted. So, as he started with the Postal Act - that he would remove Magyar Posta's transactions from the scope of the data that could be requested, but that even the legal exception that could be sued, thus making it impossible or very difficult to do so - the same was the case with the MNB, where earlier purchases of art, paintings and real estate, which caused a very large social outrage, could continue without any kind of control. Jobbik would create a compensation fund from which we would support, not aid, but move to the restoration of the original state of affairs, where those affected have already been evicted from their homes, their families have been torn apart, and where appropriate, those affected by the labour market are completely worn out. We would like to compensate these people in such a way as to give them an opportunity to restart their lives in a fair way. This is the difference between you and us, that, while on the other side, you are encrypting amazing real estate investments, painting and art purchases, educational projects, the besties would give back the money of foreign exchange credencers, because all these investments that you want to make behind the curtain in the future will be financed from the unduly stolen money of those who have suffered foreign currency credit. Therefore, a Jobbik government, a possible and prospective one, will not wait to settle the situation, as it is fair to regroup these amounts to the original owners by HUFing loans at the rate of admission. It is quite amazing that the government now opens this gate, so by not extending the eviction moratorium, it allows Hungarian families to evict, and the Hungarian Faculty of Executives of the Court declares that there is no need to worry so much that the number of evictions is expected to be below a thousand this year. Jobbik says that an eviction from the circle where those affected were in a very difficult situation outside of their own fault or largely out of their own fault. Obviously, Jobbik does not want to support arbitrary householders in their activities, but we can be trusted by all honest Hungarians who are in an extremely difficult situation as a result of the play of banks and financial institutions. Therefore, Jobbik will not give up on achieving justice for them, nor will we give up our fight for credit victims in the coming months, which will be very difficult. Thank you for the opportunity. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2016-03-02-88	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speeches after the agenda. Thank you for your work. The Parliament will resume its session at 11 a.m. next week. Meeting day's closed. Have a good day, everyone. [[Meeting ended at 1:20 p.m.]]
