u2016-10-14-0	[[The people in this room stand up and greet the voters' community. When the chairman of the meeting takes his seat, the people in the room will sit down.]] Dear Parliament, The 11th day of the autumn session of the Parliament is hereby opened. I would like to inform you that you will be attending the meeting with Loránd Hegedűs and Lajos Szűcs notaries to assist me. Welcome to our guests and to all those who monitor our work. Dear Parliament, It follows from the implementation of Act C of 2014 on Hungary's central budget for 2015 T/12284. the bill submitted by the Government and the T/12284. on the control of the implementation of Hungary's central budget for 2015 Joint general debate on the report submitted by the State Audit Office until closure. Dear Parliament, I welcome Mr László Domokos, President and staff of the State Audit Office, who have arrived at the hearing. Dear Parliament, I declare that the proposals will be discussed as an EU and national agenda item by the Parliament. Dear Parliament, First, I give the floor to Mr. Péter Benő Banai, State Secretary of the Ministry of National Economy, the author of the bill. Secretary of State, please.
u2016-10-14-1	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Responsible budgetary management, favourable macroeconomic indicators, increased tax revenues and, not least, maximum payment of EU funds, are typical of the general government processes in 2015. This proves that the government measures taken are effective, and we can even say that the Hungarian reforms are working. Please allow me to briefly comment on the main macroeconomic data that are characteristic of the past period before presenting the content of the draft closing accounts bill. The so-called EDP report sent to the European Union in autumn revealed Hungary's outstanding economic performance in 2015. Compared with the projected 2.9 percent growth rate of gross domestic product was 3.1 percent, which exceeded the average growth rate of the EU countries by 0.9 percentage points. As is well known, the government's fiscal policy is characterised by careful and sound planning, with an economic growth of 2.5 per cent for 2015. The increase in household consumption, which is mainly, but not limited to, the number of employees and the dynamic increase in real wages, has played an important role in overcoming the planned growth rate, but it is also important to mention earlier measures to save foreign exchange creditors, which have also contributed to positive processes. The number of employees increased significantly by 2.7 percent in 2015, while the unemployment rate decreased by 1 percentage point compared to the previous year, thus decreasing to 6.8 percent at the end of the year. This trend will also continue this year. Since 2010, the number of people employed in Hungary has increased by more than 660,000, and the employment rate is now above 70 percent, while unemployment has reached an historic low point of 4.9 percent. The more people have jobs, the more disposable household income will be, and not only the economy will grow through consumption, but budget revenues will also be able to increase without tax increases. Thanks to the family tax relief that fosters childbearing and fosters child rearing, more money remains in the pockets of families. Last year, net real earnings, calculated taking this into account, increased by 4.2 percent in excess of the expansion of the economy. The rise in consumption has also been supported by low inflation, as wages and pensions have also maintained their purchasing power. On average, prices decreased by 0.1 percent in 2015. It is also worth mentioning that last year, investments in the national economy increased by 0.6 percent, in which the 7 percent increase in the last quarter played a significant role. This is due not only to projects co-financed by the EU, but also to the fact that Hungarian companies are increasingly willing to invest their resources in value-making investments, thus supporting economic growth. Therefore, we can safely say that the structure of economic growth has become sustainable in the long term, and that sustained growth has been achieved while the balance indicators have also been well achieved. Dear House, In 2015, in addition to the economic indicators characteristic of internal processes, the external balance was also positive. A stronger increase in exports also supported economic growth, thanks to a more dynamic recovery in external demand. The 7.7% increase in Hungarian exports exceeded the growth rate of imports last year. As a result, the external trade surplus reached record levels, which further improved Hungary's external balance together with the incoming EU transfers. The results of the government's economic policy and the country's long-term sound fiscal management on a sustainable path have been recognised by international organisations and investors. This is demonstrated by the fact that at the end of the year, with all three major international credit rating agencies, only one degree separated our country from the category recommended for investment. In April 2016, Fitch Ratings already placed our country in an investment-proclaimed category, to which Standard & Poor also joined in its latest decision. Overall, in the light of macroeconomic developments and factual data, it can be concluded that since the change in government in 2010, all economic indicators measured by numbers are developing positively, with which the situation of the domestic national economy can be objectively characterised. Thanks to the government's fiscal policy, public finances are stable year after year, as well as the performance of the various sectors of the Hungarian economy is significantly strengthened. Dear Parliament, Please allow me to further describe the general government processes for 2015. The government continued to achieve its economic policy objectives announced at the beginning of the cycle, to keep the budget deficit low, to reduce public debt, to further increase employment and to increase the country's growth potential. With the government measures taken since 2011, the burden of hundreds of thousands of foreign exchange-credit families has been reduced; in the light of the decisions of the Curia and the Constitutional Court, banks have been cleared and foreign currency loans have been HUFed. [[9.10]] In recent years, the government has not only managed to restore macroeconomic balance, but has also made a substantial improvement in the income situation of the population. Following the global economic crisis, the high foreign exchange debt of households has become a barrier to the recovery of domestic demand. However, as a result of the accountability, more money was left for families, thereby increasing the savings and consumption of households, which, as I mentioned at the outset, encouraged economic growth and had a positive impact on the revenue of the budget. The 2015 budget was therefore a budget of this kind, thanks to bank accountability. Over the past year, favourable real economic and debt financing processes have allowed two changes to the fiscal law without the increase in expenditure leading to a change in the deficit target. The government first made a proposal in April 2015, and then the National Assembly decided on this basis. the total take-over of its debt and the acquisition by the State in Erste Bank. The amendment also provided a source for, inter alia, military engagement in Kurdistan, the road construction programme, support for people with disabilities and the expansion of free children's meals. When assessing last year's budget year, we should not forget that Hungary's history has been under the greatest migratory pressure for many months, which is why in the autumn the government presented the second legislative amendment proposal to Parliament in the context of the migrant crisis, given the need to provide additional resources for the institutions involved in dealing with the exceptional situation. In addition to this, the government transferred a total of HUF 84.1 billion to protect the Hungarian and EU borders, of which HUF 45.8 billion was paid last year. This is a multiple of the aid received from the Union for this purpose. Ladies and Gentlemen, I would like to describe below the main figures of public finances for last year. The cash flow deficit was largely achieved at HUF 1223.6 billion due to the pre-financing of EU funds, representing 3.6 percent of GDP. In particular, the lack of the central subsystem amounted to HUF 1237.2 billion, the payment surplus of the local government subsystem in 2015 was HUF 13.6 billion, due to disciplined management, rationalisation of expenditure, strict government control of borrowing and the fine-tuning of the municipal task and financing system year after year 2013. The lack of the so-called government sector in line with the EU methodology has been much lower than the target, with a debt ratio of 1.6 per cent instead of 2.4 per cent of GDP and 74,7 per cent of the previous year, calculated according to the same methodology. We can remember that this indicator was around 81 percent in 2011. It is worth mentioning here that the amounts of EU funds and related national contributions have played a significant role in the further development and renewal of priority areas such as economic development, employment, transport, health or education. Last year, around HUF 2802 billion of EU budget support was paid to these areas, of which some HUF 1166 billion came from various EU funds. In 2015, the amount of aid granted to beneficiaries exceeded the 2014 level by HUF 578 billion. Thanks to the outstanding use of the 2007-13 programmes, it was possible to pay all EU funds to beneficiaries, i.e. to avoid any loss of resources that seemed real in previous years. Payments were further increased by the amount of non-budget agricultural subsidies, which provided direct EU income replacement support to Hungarian farmers for HUF 402 billion. All in all, it can be said that EU support was granted in 2015 for HUF 3205 billion, which is more than 9 percent of GDP. All operational programmes of the 2014-20 programming period were successfully adopted by the European Commission in 2015. The calls for proposals have been launched immediately after the adoption of the programmes and, in some cases, payments have already been made to the beneficiaries. The funding envelope for the calls launched by the end of 2015 covered more than 50% of the available grants. The 2015 EU budget balance sheet again shows a significant amount of activity compared to previous years. Hungary's net position balance is HUF 1437 billion, with which it still occupies the top fifth position among the 28 EU countries. One hundred percent of the operational programmes were supported by the possibility of overtaking the commitment framework by around 10%, leaving sufficient eligible costs for the fullest possible drawdown of EU funds even in the event of the loss of projects that could fail. Finally, it is important to note that the additional tasks of the Hungarian institutional system, which are still more challenging than before, have been successfully fulfilled due to the overlap in time between the two programming periods. Our aim, therefore, is to use all available resources until 31 December 2015. Dear Parliament, Following macro-economic processes, amending budgets and EU relations, allow me to mention the management of the municipal sub-scheme of public finances. The central financing of local authorities was carried out in 2015 in a task-based support system developed in 2013 and developed year after year in line with the tasks of the local government. For municipalities, the main task of 2015 was to strengthen the fiscal conditions for management without operational deficits, to further catch up on small settlements, to create equal opportunities, and to increase the quality of public tasks and public services provided by municipalities. The municipal sub-scheme generated a budget surplus of HUF 13.6 billion, which remains proof that the municipalities managed effectively with their revenues and expenses. Local government debt was very low at HUF 36,6 billion at the end of 2015 thanks to the debt consolidation completed in February 2014. Experience in recent years has shown that the functioning of municipalities is seriously influenced by different own revenue options, in addition to task-based funding, and that, therefore, in order to catch up with settlements with low economic potential, the central budget has strengthened the principle of solidarity by providing an additional resource. In addition to providing basic care for children in the municipal social and child welfare care system, food for children was of particular importance, to which the budget provided increased support in line with the cost of the provision of tasks, taking into account the social situation of children in need and the legal requirements to ensure a healthy diet. Ladies and Gentlemen, The government intends to recognise the work of public sector workers with scheduled career models and targeted wage raising programmes. As part of this, as of 1 September 2013, the National Public Education Act established in more detail a higher salary than previously for those employed in the teaching profession in the public education institution. As a result of the measure, around 25 900 teachers were able to raise their wages in the municipal kindergartens in 2015. In addition, as of February 2015, the central budget will provide additional support to institutional support providers for the additional expenditure of teachers resulting from the qualification of teachers, which contributed to the higher level of salary of 4900 kindergarten teachers in the local government sector. Thanks to the addition of the career model, the salary of the teachers in a skilled training-educating job has also increased substantially. In order to expand the seats of the kindergartens, 66 settlements were able to start investment work with HUF 2.5 billion in budget support. In conclusion, in 2015 the government took into account the situation of the municipalities, their specific characteristics and their economic potential to the most optimal extent possible in the development of subsidies, thanks to practical experience. [[9.20]] Dear Parliament, I would like to mention below the implementation of the 2015 budget of the two financial funds for social security. The closure balance of the budget of the Pension Insurance Fund for 2015 included HUF 4.6 billion in surplus. The overachievement of revenues was essentially driven by positive developments in economic growth and additional revenues from employment expansion. Between the two funds of social security, the distribution of the 27 per cent social contribution tax for the Pension Insurance Fund decreased to around 85.5 per cent in 2015. Due to the sustained growth in the economy, the incomes of the Pension Insurance Fund have increased and the situation of the pension fund is therefore stable and predictable. The largest item of expenditure was retirement expenses, which totalled HUF 2987.7 billion. In particular, I would like to highlight the popularity of pension rights available to women in the event of 40 years of legal acquisition. The Pension Insurance Fund spent some HUF 182.7 billion on this in 2015. Pension expenditure included the impact of a 1.8 per cent increase in pensions of 2 million 177 thousand in 2015, resulting in a 1.4 per cent increase in the purchasing power of pensions taking into account 0.4 per cent inflation on the consumer's pension basket, continuing to continue to increase the real value of pensions for the fourth year. The revenues of the Health Insurance Fund exceeded the planned figures by HUF 15.2 billion and by HUF 45.3 billion. Within the revenues of the Health Insurance Fund, nearly HUF 1224 billion of contributions were made, which is HUF 25.5 billion more than planned. Half of this additional income was derived from the health insurance contribution of the insured person and more than one third from the payment of the health contribution and the social contribution tax due on the fund. Another decisive group of revenues was budget contributions amounting to HUF 564.9 billion. The performance was reduced by HUF 17.4 billion compared to the forecast, as the reimbursement of part of the coverage of disability rehabilitation benefits required less funds. The total expenditure of the Health Insurance Fund in 2015 was HUF 1956.1 billion, nearly 29 percent of which were used to pay cash benefits and 70 percent to finance benefits in kind. For benefits in kind, it should be pointed out that the statutory appropriation of preventive care provided cover, among other things, the introduction of a monthly fee of HUF 130 thousand for the general medical service provider by providing an additional HUF 10 billion in basic care, a salary supplement of around 77 thousand healthcare workers starting from 1 July 2015, additional financing of medicines for treatment of oncological and inflammatory diseases, and implementing health policy measures to reduce the waiting list. In addition, as a result of the government's actions, healthcare has gained HUF 12 billion in additional resources by providing the necessary funds for the purchase of detailed medicines, tools and implants. I would like to mention that last year, the government took action to cover the continued financing of expenditure in excess of the 2015 appropriations for pharmaceutical aid and medical aid for patients in order to provide safe care. Ladies and Gentlemen, Finally, I would like to say a few words about the findings of the State Audit Office on the accounts, which you can learn at the same time as this bill. In line with previous years' practice, the Court has done a great deal of work in monitoring the bill on the implementation of the 2015 budget, which I would also like to thank. The report stated, inter alia, that the draft law, as reported, was a realistic presentation of financial data and information on the implementation of the budget, as well as that the Ministry of National Economy complied with the legal requirements when drawing up the 2015 discharge bill, the content and structure of the bill comply with the relevant legal requirements. Dear Parliament, As you can see, the 2015 closure accounts provide substantial evidence that the government measures taken are effective. Not only the most important macroeconomic indicators have developed positively, but also the growth of the economy, the growth of employment and, as a result, the additional revenues from the budget have led to a substantial change in the everyday life of Hungarian families. As a result, more people are working today than in 2010, in 2015 more people were actually working than in 2010 or even in 2014. And not only did the number of employees increase, but also real wages, so that everyone could take a step forward in their own lives. On this basis, I respectfully ask you to discuss and subsequently adopt the closing bill. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-10-14-2	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr László Domokos, President of the State Audit Office, author of the report. Mr. President, you have the floor.
u2016-10-14-3	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice President, Mr. President. Dear Members, Ladies and Gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, The State Audit Office shall monitor the implementation of the central budget annually on the basis of statutory requirements. Under the Court of Auditors Act, the audit covers the closure of the implementation of the budget of the financial funds for social security, the financial accounts of the financial funds for social security and the closure of the implementation of the budget for the separate public funds. The Public Finance Act requires the Government to submit a legislative proposal for closure to Parliament or to forward it in advance to the Court of Auditors. The Court of Auditors shall submit its report on the audit of the accounts to Parliament each year. The bill on closing accounts will be discussed by the Parliament together with our report. LXVII of 2016 on the basis of Hungary's central budget for 2017 On 18 June 2016, the amendment of the Public Finance Act entered into force on the basis of which the deadline for the submission to Parliament of the legislative closing act was modified from 31 August to 30 September 2016. That's when we made it public, and then we gave the Parliament our discharge report. During our audit, we assessed the adequacy of the discharge bill and whether the accounts and the total accounts underlying the bill contained any material error affecting reliability, and also checked whether the implementation of the budget law was legally and properly implemented, and whether the audited organisations were properly managed with public funds. At the same time, we have checked the fulfilment and enforcement of the government debt requirements of the Fundamental Law and the Stability Act. Dear Parliament, The State Audit Office concluded that the implementation of last year's budget was in line with the legal requirements and the European Union's conditions, that the discharge bill is well-founded, that the data contained in it are reliable, and that they have been supported by the data of the treasury accounts, so I can recommend it to you for adoption. The implementation of the general government's central sub-scheme's legislative appropriations for 2015, deficit and government debt developments were in line with the provisions of the Fundamental Law, the Act on the Economic Stability of Hungary and the Public Finance Act. The draft closing act contains the content required by law and its structure is in line with the legal requirements. The main objective of our closing audit is to support Parliament in its decision-making on the adoption of the bill and to strengthen transparency and accountability in the management of public funds. This is also done by the fact that our report on the 2015 discharge check has been prepared in a new form. With a clear, user-friendly report, we want to make better use of the audit findings presented in the Court's report. [[9.30]] In recent years, Parliamentary representatives and the professional public have been calling for feedback from the Court of Auditors on the deeper context of macroeconomic processes. In view of this, three years ago, we decided to prepare an analysis of the context of the implementation of the budget for that year in addition to our report. This work was carried out again this year, and the analysis was submitted to the Parliament together with the report. Dear House, The State Audit Office of Hungary has set itself as a strategic objective to develop a different approach, content and procedure to ensure a more effective and effective control of the accounts and to continue to support Parliament's work in making a sound decision. The State Audit Office renewed and published on its website a new methodology for checking the accounts in January 2015 with this strategic objective. The methodological renewal was induced by the new fiscal accounting rules introduced from 1 January 2014 and by the new audit principles adopted in 2013 by the International Organisation of Main Audit Institutions, INTOSAI. On the basis of the renewed methodology of the Court of Auditors, the audit of the 2014 accounts was carried out and the audit of the implementation of the 2015 central budget was carried out. Thus, the focus of the audit is on the audit of the accounts of the budgetary accounts underlying the data of the bill. The methodology for checking closure accounts is designed to give an informed opinion on the implementation of the budget as a whole on the basis of the audit procedures used. The audit provides a comprehensive and objective picture of the reliability of the data contained in the 2015 discharge bill. The audit shall cover the total expenditure and revenue of the central subsystem, including five main areas: central management appropriations, financial funds for social security, allocated public funds, appropriations for chapter management, including European Union support, and central budget institutions. In these five control areas, the reliability of the data contained in the accounts of the budget, such as the budgetary reports and the residual statements, has been verified. In addition, the regularity of financial accounting reports, i.e. the compilation of the balance sheet and the profit and loss account and the reliability of the data included in the accounts of the institutions required to report to Parliament and the social security funds have also been assessed. As a result of the new methodology, after last year, the second time this year, the Court of Auditors' audit of the closure accounts covered 100 percent of the expenditure and revenues of the central subsystem, we carried out an audit of nearly 150 organisations, including 70 central budgetary bodies' reports. The State Audit Office of the State used statistical sampling methods in the course of the discharge check and acted in accordance with its rules and drew the determination of the total population on the basis of an audit of the items selected accordingly. During the statistical sampling, the materiality threshold was set by the State Audit Office in the same year as before, as a percentage of the expenditure and revenue of the central budget. The Court also set a further specific materiality threshold for each sub-area, also as a percentage of the total expenditure and revenue of each sub-area. The audit of the reliability of revenue and expenditure, the regularity of management and the use of appropriations, and its consistency with the rules on budgetary management in all areas of control have already been assessed with the new methodology. Dear Parliament, According to the Stability Act, the government debt in 2015 was HUF 25 1349 billion, which was 73.9 percent of gross national income, which is more than 2 percentage points lower than at the end of 2014. Consequently, the rule of the Fundamental Law requiring a reduction of the state's debt was still in force in 2015. The same can be said of the debt reduction requirements under the EU criteria, which Hungary also met by providing that the government sector's debt under the EU methodology was only 74,7 percent of GDP at the end of 2015 compared to 75,7 percent in 2014. The central budget, the financial funds for social security and the revenue and expenditure performance data of the allocated public funds, which are part of the central subsystem, are reliable. Overall, legal requirements have been complied with in the performance of revenue and expenditure appropriations. The bill presents financial data and information on the implementation of the budget in a realistic manner, in line with the figures of the reports. The data contained in the bill are supported by data from closed treasury accounts. The audit also identified errors of reliability in the revenue and expenditure data of the central budget in the area of benefits, payments of subsidies under the national family and social policy fund, expenditure of institutions required to report to Parliament and the revenue and expenditure of other institutions of the central budget. However, the total value of the reliability errors in the revenue and expenditure data of the central budget has not reached the materiality level and the revenue and expenditure data are therefore reliable. In the context of the closure accounts, we have checked the fulfilment of the revenue and expenditure appropriations for the central budget, social security funds and allocated public funds, the regularity of the adjustment of appropriations, the residual statement and the compilation of accounts, and the establishment of a control environment on which they are based. Our audit revealed conformity errors in all five control areas, which the State Audit Office of the State called on by letter. The SAO Act, which entered into force in 2011, provided for the first time an opportunity to address the head of the audited entity with a letter of attention in order to eliminate the infringement practices detected during the audit or the misuse or waste of property. The head of the audited organisation shall assess the information contained in the notice letter within 15 days and take the appropriate action and inform the State Audit Office of the measures taken. The Court of Auditors may, in the framework of a follow-up audit, verify that the organisation involved in raising awareness has implemented the action taken. Thus, the Court of Auditors can also generate a change and improvement in the orderly functioning of public finances by means of a notice letter. As part of the follow-up this year, the implementation of the action obligations in relation to the establishment of the 2014 discharge check has been monitored by 38 organisations under this instrument. Our audit found that the organisations, in accordance with the provisions of the SAO Act, assessed the notices, with a few exceptions, within the prescribed deadline within 15 days, on the basis of which measures were taken and the Court of Auditors was also informed of their actions. In order to raise awareness of the total of 143 actions in 38 letters of awareness, 162 actions have been identified by the organisations, which have taken effective action on almost all elements. The rate of non-executive measures was only one out of every 20. Overall, we can say that the organisations have complied with their obligation to take action in the awareness letter. It is important to say this here because, in the past, the State Audit Office's proposals, which, in the absence of a legal obligation, was only possible to do something, were only 50 per cent of the response to the finding at all. So I believe that significant progress has been made in recent years with these almost 100 percent response rates. For the sake of sound and responsible management, this year, within the framework of the 2015 closure report, we sent a presidential awareness letter to 64 audited organisations, of which only 9 were audited organisations that we had contacted in the last year. And if we look at the nature of irregularities, we find that we have had fewer control environments, that is to say, we have made a finding of shortcomings in regulation, so that we can say that our efforts to properly establish a control environment that is a prerequisite for regular operation have not been in vain so far. [[9.40]] Following the renewal of public finance accounting, regulation and compliance of the control environment with legal requirements improved. However, further steps and measures are needed both in respect of compliance with statutory deadlines by budgetary bodies and by managing bodies as well as in respect of kept and detailed records to support the annual budget report. For the first time this year, in order to support Parliament's decision-making work more effectively and effectively, a short summary assessment of the results of the audit of the accounts of the institutions required to report to Parliament was carried out, which can be found in the appendix to our report. A summary evaluation of an organisation was carried out with the aim of informing the Members of Parliament about the reliability of the information contained in the report of the organisation, since the accounts of the organisations also contain information on the organisation's management. Evaluations of some organisations have already been sent to the parliamentary committee putting the organisation's report on the agenda for recovery. Dear House, As I mentioned at the beginning of my expo, we carried out an analysis of the macroeconomic context of the budgetary processes for 2015, in parallel with our closing audit, thus fulfilling the task of supporting good governance and the work of the Fiscal Council, as set out in the Act on the State Audit Office. I think it is important to point out that the data contained in our analysis reflects the state of play before the so-called EDP report on 30 September, but I am already presenting the revised data in my current expozem. Our study looks for the answer, not with the need for completeness, of course, about the economic factors that shaped revenue development, about the economic and social changes that budget expenditure has brought about, and about the relationship between the budgetary balance. In order to demonstrate the economic and social context, the analysis does not limit itself to the data of a single year, but we have also tried to draw attention to trends in the medium term. The study was carried out by means of an economic analysis. The context presented cannot be regarded as the audit findings of the State Audit Office and reflect the opinion of the authors of the study. In 2015, the GDP growth of the Hungarian economy was 3.1 percent, as has already been said by the Secretary of State, 0.6 percentage points higher than the 2.5 percent forecast taken into account in the planning of the budget, which I indicate is typically considered optimistic by external analysts. The Hungarian economy performed far beyond that in 2015. The growth rate exceeded the European Union's growth of around 2.2 per cent and the performance of the euro zone and within it the German economy of 1.7 per cent, so Hungary continued to converge to the level of development of the European Union, as it did in the 2004 accession negotiations. Economic growth was facilitated by the ability of Hungarian companies to take advantage of the growing demand in the external market, and therefore the country's external trade turnover developed positively, the volume of exports increased by more than 6.9 per cent, by 7.7 per cent, and the volume of imports increased by only 6.1 per cent. Despite the rapid increase in domestic consumption in 2015, they did not deteriorate, as was the case in previous decades, Hungary's international positions and even improved. The so-called external financing capacity represented 7.7-9 percent of GDP in 2015, which is an extremely good indicator. Based on the factors of economic growth, it can be concluded that the most significant change in 2015 was the determining role of internal demand factors. Private consumption increased by 3.1 percent, supported by low inflation, the increase in the minimum wage above inflation and the continuation of the public sector's career model. The relatively low growth rate of investments was driven by the completion of earlier large-scale manufacturing investments, lower-than-expected agricultural investments and reduced housing investment. Based on the production side analysis of the contribution to GDP change, it can be concluded that all sectors except agriculture contributed to growth. Economic growth increased significantly by 2.7 percent in 2015 and the unemployment rate fell to 6.8 percent at the end of 15. The Hungarian primary labour market contributed to the growth of employment by 62 thousand people, the number of public workers by 37 thousand people, and the number of workers at foreign sites by 11 thousand. After a decrease of 0.2 per cent in 2014, in 2015, the change in the consumer price level was 0.1 per cent, so there was virtually no inflation in Hungary overall. The reasons for this include the low inflation environment, low levels of imported inflation, low oil prices and unused domestic production capacities. The growth credit programme, the job protection action plan and the Start work programme can be highlighted among the central measures to support economic processes. According to the EU methodology of public finances, the deficit was now 2.1 percent of GDP in 2014 and 1.6 percent of GDP in 2015, so the deficit remained below 2.4 percent as set out in the Finance Act and was achieved at 66 percent in Hungarian. It is important to stress that this deficit has never reached such a low level in Hungary before. Each country's economy is heavily influenced by its budget weight in the economy, the size of its centralisation redistribution in relation to GDP. The centralisation ratio in Hungary continued to increase in 2015, with an increasing amount of EU funds among government sector revenues and an increase in tax revenues that exceeded 45.1 percentage points in EU countries by 3.6 percentage points. In terms of redistribution rates, Hungary exceeded by 3.3 percentage points the 47.4 percent of the 28 European countries in 2015. In the context of the also increasing centralisation ratio, the tax and contribution revenues of the central budget increased by 7.9 percent compared to the previous year's revenues. The increase was due to an outstanding increase of 15,1 per cent in the payment of enterprises, of 6% in the consumption-related taxes and of 7% in the retail payments, the latter two being lower than the average increase in the tax rate. Among the corporate contributions, the high corporate tax surplus was due to the impact of tax avoidance measures, additional revenues from individual transactions and the introduction of a growth tax credit. As a result of the ratio of debt management issuance, the low interest rate environment and the declining government debt to GDP, it decreased to 7.1 percent of total budget expenditure in 2015 and extended the government margin, after it was 8.6 percent and 8.7 percent in 13-14 years respectively. [[9.50]] Gross government debt-to-GDP ratio decreased to 74,7 percent by the end of 2015. In addition to the reduction in the debt ratio, there is also a significant change in the debt structure of the central budget. By the end of 2015, the foreign exchange debt ratio decreased by 6.2 percentage points to 31,3% compared to the previous year. This further reduced Hungary's external vulnerability. Dear House, The apparent contradiction of the 2015 budget is that the central budget's cash-flow balance represents a deficit of HUF 344.8 billion compared to the appropriations. On the other hand, the government sector, calculated according to the EU methodology, has already reached 1.6 percent of GDP, as mentioned above, compared to 2.4 percent of planned GDP. The apparent contradiction between the two figures is due to the fact that part of the part of the amount paid to the programmes implemented by EU co-financing has not yet been paid out by the European Union in 2015 and therefore the Hungarian budget had to advance more than HUF 500 billion. This amount also deteriorated the so-called cash flow balance calculated on the basis of actual revenue and expenditure. At the same time, not the balance calculated according to the EU methodology reflecting the result, since the result was already achieved by the end of 2015, the programmes were implemented and accounted for, the EU will pay its share of the funding and have already paid some of it in recent months. It is important to stress that the Hungarian government did well when it advanced EU funding, as this was the only way to achieve the full use of the EU's resources available until the end of the financial period 2007-2013. This is a very important achievement, because the country has taken advantage of its potential. The advance of the EU resource also temporarily increased Hungary's public debt, but the gross government debt-to-GDP ratio still decreased by one percentage point as a key impact on the dynamic growth of GDP. The debt indicator, the annual reduction of which is provided for by the Fundamental Law, has decreased even more by 2.1 percentage points, mainly because it is not necessary to take into account the increase in debt due to the advance of EU revenues. This is a great achievement, as the external analysts here also expected that the public debt would not fall, but increase in this respect, a year and a half ago. I would like to remind you here that the State Audit Office has repeatedly pointed out the risks of EU funding loss in recent years. The analysis of the budget processes in 2015 also showed that our awareness raising had reached its goal, that the measures taken were effective, and that Hungary had avoided the loss of EU funds. Once the numbers are cleared, let's look behind the numbers. Our starting point should be the deficit calculated according to the EU methodology, as this is an internationally accepted indicator of the budgetary equilibrium. The EU requirement is that the deficit does not exceed 3% of GDP. A lower deficit of 2.4 per cent was set by the budget for the year 15 compared to this. The actual deficit, as I have already explained, has become 1.6 percent of national income. The more favourable balance was due to the increased revenue of the government sector than planned. According to the original calculations, the tax and contribution revenues would have been 37.9% of GDP, whereas the actual achievement was 39.2 percent. The payments made by the entities exceeded the amended appropriations by 15.3 percent. The public's payments were 3.9 percent higher and consumption taxes 2.6 percent higher than planned. Dear House, The positive development of revenues has resulted from measures taken to whiten the economy in addition to a more dynamic growth in GDP than planned. The results of the online cash registers and the electronic road traffic control system, the introduction of the EKÁER, will continue in the longer term, so that the resulting additional revenues can be expected year by year. This is based on the inclusion of new commercial areas in the online cash register system as of 1 January 2017. Consequently, additional tax revenues will be able to be continuously returned to economic operators and households. Based on this, the reduction of tax rates will continue in 2017 as you decide, but it started in 2016. There is still room to whiten the economy and increase the efficiency of tax collection, as we consider it. The regular audits carried out by the State Court of Auditors at the National Tax and Customs Office have also revealed a number of shortcomings, such as the control of tax incentives, risk management and the prevention of accumulation of arrears, where effective tax revenues may increase significantly, while the economy is purified and real performances can prevail in market conditions. Based on our audit findings, the management of the NAV has taken a number of measures that have contributed to improving the efficiency of tax collection. However, increasing the efficiency of tax collection is not an end in itself, but a means to reduce tax rates and thus improve the competitiveness of the economy. In my view, it would be appropriate to introduce and apply the concept of sustainable whitening. This must also be supported by a consistent parliamentary decision-making process. The essence of this is that the surplus resulting from the whitening of the economy is left by the State in the form of lower tax rates or targeted discounts for taxpayers and that the lower tax rates may lead to further whitening of the economy. The question arises as to the form in which this can best be done. A further question is whether it is appropriate to wait until 2018 to return the surplus revenue resulting from whitening, i.e. whether there is no reason to start up the positive spiral of so-called sustainable whitening in order to boost economic growth, thus increasing the competitiveness of the Hungarian economy. But you will have to decide that. Ladies and Gentlemen, Analyzing the budgetary processes in 2015, we see that this was the first year since the 2004 EU accession, when the Hungarian Parliament did not take measures to improve the balance of the budget during the year. In Hungarian, he did not take residual measures or corrective measures. I see three reasons for this. The first is that Hungary was removed from the European Union's excessive deficit procedure in the summer of 13 summers as a result of successful public finance stabilisation, repaid the loan from the International Monetary Fund and the crisis from the European Union since 2008 and consequently regained its so-called economic policy independence. Consequently, the concern of international organisations has ceased, which has caused you to take unnecessary corrective action over several years, both during the year and also the Hungarian government, of course. The second is that the 2015 bill was well founded, and in 2014 in its opinion on the bill, the State Audit Office pointed out specifically: That none of the tax revenue appropriations had to be classified as unfounded. The figures show that our evaluation was not a treasury optimism, as some of you have mentioned here, but that tax revenues were even overachieving the plans overall. However, it was worth drawing attention to some risks, such as the challenges of the full use of EU funds and the late introduction of the EKAER at that time. We have drawn this attention to the Parliament and the Government, and as a result, I think that we have managed to achieve these. The third reason is the system of maintenance. The 2015 budget, including an interim increase in the reserve, included a reserve of about HUF 200 billion. The government spent it almost every penny of it. You did the right thing, because the reserve has two goals. One is not to spend it if the balance of the budget goes wrong, the other is to spend it if it does not jeopardise the achievement of the budget deficit target. [[10.00]] From an economic policy and psychological point of view, I consider it important that, if the fiscal balance has been improved, the reserves are used by the government; for economic policy reasons, because the unused reserve, which you have voted to spend, will not stimulate the economy, and from a psychological point of view, because the spending of the reserve shows that the reserve is not the same as the withdrawal. If the reserve could never be spent, the maintenance obligation would be lived by the wallets as a covert form of withdrawal. However, if the reserves can be released during the year in good management and favourable circumstances, it is worth saving as the reserve increases the security of budgetary management, the adaptability of the interim challenges and the fact that they do not need to take corrective measures in 2015 can be repeated. If there is an adequate reserve, there is no need to close appropriations, stop programmes, invests, transfer payments to the following years in case of a negative turnaround, which could lead to additional budgetary expenditure, and ultimately waste. Of course, reserves should be spent only for useful purposes under favourable circumstances, as a one-off expenditure which does not constitute a commitment to future expenditure, on the contrary: the budget for the following year should be relieved of the expenditure needed but brought forward. The budgets for this year and 2017 already contain a multi-factor system of budgetary reserve, which is very useful for sound fiscal policy. However, I am missing a reserve: the reserve which is able to replace the so-called appropriations opened from above, which can be exceeded without a separate decision of the Parliament, is closed from above. The amount of appropriations opened from above in the 2015 central budget was more than 57 per cent of the total amount of expenditure. This represents a major risk to the sustainability of the budget in our view. It is true that significant overruns have taken place in recent years only in the case of EU appropriations, knowingly and in a completely justified way, but the risk is worth warning until it is achieved. It can be seen that it is not safe to have a budget in which more than half of the expenditure appropriations can be exceeded by law. Instead, we propose a reserve system in which no appropriations can be automatically exceeded, but the government may allow the payment of any necessary surplus to be charged to a reserve framework during the year. I also think it is important to draw attention to the fact that in 2015 the state's purchases increased as a result of an increase in budget expenditure, i.e. increased so-called direct public demand. The statistics refer to expenditure by the State which it spends on producers' use or stockpiling in the State. The proportion of these expenditures increased to 16.5 percent of GDP, compared with 15.3 percent in the 14th year and the previous, even lower rates. If we look back at the link between direct public demand and economic growth for five years, we find a close link between two factors: figures show that the economy has grown dynamically in the years - see, 14-15 - when direct public demand increased significantly in proportion to GDP, and economic growth fell back in the year, thus, in 12, when direct public demand declined in proportion to GDP. This warns that the decline in direct public demand must have a negative impact on economic dynamics in the short term. The slowing down of economic growth, for example, in the first quarter of 16th quarter, was certainly also caused by the sudden decline in public accumulation expenditure during this period. Of course, the level of public demand can only be increased to a level of common sense, but when changing its scale, the government must exercise great caution in this regard if it is to avoid the fluctuations in the pace of economic growth that it causes, creating uncertainty in the economic environment, temporarily impairing the expectations of economic projections, thus also the prospects of an investment incentive environment, ultimately the competitiveness assessment of the country. Dear Parliament, The State Audit Office keeps an eye on budgetary developments. I believe that by our work, report and analysis we will contribute to the favourable budgetary processes and their understanding, and we will support Parliament's decision to adopt the closing accounting bill. Our work is useful, as our experience contributes to the application of fiscal policy that leads to sound and long-term economic growth. After all, let me last think of thanking you for the work of hundreds, thousands of people who supported our audit work, because in the organisations we checked, it was indeed long days, weeks, months in the course of the inspection, as a result of which I was able to express these thoughts. And, of course, I thank my own colleagues for their work, their persistent efforts. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-10-14-4	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, The speech will now take place in a 30-30-minute time frame, while two-minute speeches are not possible. I give the floor to Congressman Lajos Szűcs, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2016-10-14-5	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr. President of the House, Mr. President of the SAO, Mr. Secretary of State. T/12284 on the closure of the 2015 budget ahead Today we are talking about bill No. Ladies and Gentlemen, Several figures have been made, let me repeat some of them, precisely so that the processes that the government has presented to us in relation to the 2015 accounts can be highlighted a little bit. It has been said several times that the increase in national income was planned to be 2.5 per cent, the later prognosis increased to 2.9 per cent, and the fact that the government submitted to Brussels a few weeks ago, even though it exceeded the growth rate before last year by 3.1 per cent. What does that say? It shows that the planning of this 2015 budget was well-founded, since it took into account the opportunities that the government could count on at the time. The report also shows the progress it has made in terms of options, which was clearly offset by revenue increases and a moderate increase in expenditure. It was a very important figure, as both the Secretary of State and the President of the SAO said, that the unemployment rate in Hungary could fall from 6.8 percent to 4.9 percent this year. This could be achieved by improving the economy, as the number of unemployed people in a non-growing economy tends to increase. It was an important figure that the deficit, which should be reduced every year as set out in the Fundamental Law, in several credit rating and, of course, whipped by the opposition, was expected by everyone not to decrease, the deficit decreased to 74,7 per cent, and we can show a 1 per cent increase here, as the planned figure was 75,7 per cent, compared to 74,7 per cent. An important sentence was the increase in real earnings, which increased by 4.8 percent. And perhaps the most important thing is the reduction in the lack of a central budget, which I will share with you some figures. [[10.10]] In the 2015 Budget Act, the government set a 2.4 percent deficit target and the closing act was implemented by 1.6 percent on the basis of the figures submitted to the Union in September. Here again, we were able to achieve a 0.8 percent decrease. And to have comparative numbers: the deficit was 6.5 percent in 2004, 7.9 percent in 2005 and 9.3 percent in 2006. I did not, on purpose, say years when they might say that we need to look at some kind of crisis. The question of how to finance the economy lies between 9.3 percent and 1.6 percent. There it can be seen that the monetary policy of the National Bank increases the base rate in a way that helps inflation, or makes the basic rate of central bank interest as low as possible in order to help the government and the economy. In this respect, it is therefore important to see that the rate of inflation last year was 0.1 percent, meaning that the deterioration of all our money is almost undetectable. In practice, this means that inflation has also been able to contribute to economic growth. We did so by increasing real wages, as I said, and we did so by increasing the real value of pensions. To the performance of the economy, the Secretary of State also said that the high number of export increases and export-import rates contributed very significantly - 7.7% of this increase. I think this also shows that the Hungarian economy had room to sell its products. I have been involved in the debate of Parliament's discharge laws since 2001, and I must say that it is so cheesy that I have not yet met a boring discharge law. In the 2001 and subsequent years, the closing accounting laws were presented to Parliament as so-called salad law, in which the government of the year then, in which they tried to tie up the economic numbers of the previous years, had always submitted very serious amendments to the processing of the previous year's performances. There have been years in which this discharge proposal has been amended by more than 50-60 laws, and generally it has always been about the fulfilment of closing accounting laws in a way far beyond the planned deficit target. From this point of view, this 2015 discharge law, I think, is completely novum, because only the closing accounting law was submitted, there was no need to find a place for any tying up. The Secretary of State also said that it is also a novum that the 2015 Budget Act was amended two times last year. On either occasion, as the President of the SAO said, to make the deficit target worse, or to try to resolve in it an economic process that we did not expect. There was a legislative amendment, mainly because revenues increased and revenue growth could be linked to the inclusion of expenditure in the Budget Act that could not be expected. The Secretary of State has also said these things. I would like to highlight one of them, the settlement of the specific expenditure caused by the migrant crisis. When planning last year, no one expected Hungary to be affected by a migrant wave. I think the government has made the right choice to use these resources to contain this wave of migrants. I wish I didn't have to, and then these amounts could have been used for something else. I think the recognition of the work that the 2015 budget discharge shows is that this year, in addition to the most optimistic expectations, credit rating agencies could do nothing but change ratings despite siren sounds. I usually listen to economic radios, where the actors always try to evaluate the government's work in a slightly extreme, negative way, but in recent days their voices have been a little quiet, too, when these positive assessments from credit rating agencies arrived in Hungary. It is important to say what is contained in the closing accounting law that all the planned expenditure and all the planned revenue have been made in it. There are no parts that are included in the State Audit Office's report that would not have been fulfilled. We have also heard from the Court's report that there were parts that the Court of Auditors considered to be more risky, but the performance shows that these risk factors remain within the margin of error. So I think that we can also say here in this House that we have never heard such an SAO report, which would have been so positive about these economic processes. Dear Secretary of State, Mr. SAO president! The most important sentence has been said: there is no salad law, and there was no need to tie things up in this closing act that many people here in this House are used to. Therefore, we can also say what we said when planning the budget itself, that the bill was predictable and consistent, and that we can also quote the word "reliable" from the SAO's report. One of the most important parts of the Finance Act is whether the objective set out in the Budget Act can be respected. With regard to the closing accounting law, we can say that it was enforceable and respected by all its players. So this closing act was based on real data, which, I think, gives us pleasure. And in the end, I would like to say to you that all actors, government and lawmakers, have submitted the budget report in accordance with the rules and deadlines laid down in the Public Finance Act, together with the necessary annexes. Thank you, of course, for the SAO's opinion. In addition, on behalf of the Fidesz Group, I would like to ask you to discuss and adopt the bill that has been tabled. Thank you for the floor, Mr President. [[Applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2016-10-14-6	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr István Józsa, the lead speaker of the MSZP Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2016-10-14-7	Thank you for the opportunity, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, The closing report on the budget and its implementation is actually a moment of truth. The budget is the tightest policy. You can say nice things in an election campaign, you can create moods, war incitements as a referendum preparation, and spend tens of billions of budget and taxpayers on it, but the moment of truth is when the closing statement comes before Parliament, and the government is forced to demonstrate what it spent on, what processes it supported and what processes it took. [[10.20]] This budget, which was realised in 2015, continued its policy for the Orbán government, which is far from the service of the public good, has been withdrawn from health, education and the social sphere by a thousand billion-dollar scale. So if we consider the common good not only to look at average indicators, but also to take into account the number of Hungarian citizens and people who have improved their lives and how much worse they have become, unfortunately, the Orbán government is far from serving the common good. Much fewer people have had better lives, especially relatives, acquaintances, and many people who represent the poorer sections of society, and they are many more, the work of the Orbán government and its fiscal policy have made their lives worse, and their livelihoods have become more difficult. This, of course, is very, very good in the balance of the budget, so what you are presenting is indeed an improvement in stability. But at what cost, it will be seen in individual policies. We believe that this economic policy is too one-sided, that it was too much for the government's extreme spending and that it did little to improve people's well-being. In fact, a significant transfer of income has been carried out that has clearly damaged the living conditions of 60% of the Hungarian population. In this sense, the budget cannot be regarded as successful. In terms of growth, the best year of the last five years has been achieved. The GDP growth is 3.1 percent, which in itself really indicates that the country survived the decline caused by the second crisis in 2012 and 13, but compared with the growth of 4.5 per cent of the Czech economy in 2015, Romanian and Slovak economies, this 3.1 per cent seems to be impressive in itself, unfortunately means that Hungarian growth is still in the last place in the region. The fact that the deficit has reached 1.6 percent shows the disciplined implementation of the budget, but as I mentioned earlier, it covers blood and tears. It shows that the budget has been mercilessly cut off from where human resources should have been given, i.e. from the health sector and the education and social sphere. Unbelievable tragedies and problems are covered by this 1.6 percent budget deficit. The budget has been best balanced in 2015 since the Orbán government's Regency. The President of the Court of Auditors is right: this was a year when there was no need for further austerity measures during the process. But the background of this was that there had been a reduction of about a thousand billion in the past, and it held on to it, and the budget for 2015 has eased little. However, it is also important to highlight, while we are talking about balance and economic growth, that in 2015 Hungary received 6 percent of Hungarian GDP from the European Union, and this played a decisive role in the development of economic data. So if you look at the fact that an external source equal to 6 per cent of GDP came in, actually without any extra expense, then this is a significant nuance of the picture. So even though this 3.1 percent shines nicely, a deeper study shows that the structure of the economy is not nearly as stable as we could hope from the equilibrium data. Hungary's financial indicators have been balanced at macro level if the competitiveness of the Hungarian economy as a whole has fallen to every low point so far. In essence, the decline in competitiveness is numerically demonstrated by the latest analysis of the World Economic Forum, according to which Hungary has made six places worse and has fallen to 69th place in competitiveness. It is even more obvious that out of the 28 Member States of the European Union, Hungary is now only behind Greece, Cyprus and Croatia, which is barely emerging from political chaos. So we are the last of the Member States of the European Union to be competitive, after us there is only practically a country in economic bankruptcy or political chaos, Greece, Cyprus, Croatia. The fact is, therefore, that the Bulgarian and Romanian economies had already preceded our country in competitiveness in 2015. And if we look at the structure of this, the aspects of competitiveness, it is sad that it is precisely government measures, and corruption at the state level, which has increased to an incredible degree, that is ruining Hungary's competitiveness. While the Central and Eastern European region seems to have recovered from the shock caused by the financial crisis, and the region has raised itself to the level before 2009, the quality of the entrepreneurial environment in our country has further deteriorated. According to this survey, which was carried out by the World Economic Forum, the negative trend has continued steadily since 2011, i.e. since the rise of unorthodox economic policy, since then Hungary's competitiveness has deteriorated. If we look at competitiveness in detail, there are also eight typical points in Hungary that are among the worst in the world, and it is very saddening, very thoughtful, because it is directly related to the government's work. Among these, corruption at the state level is outstanding, i.e. the phenomenon that privileged companies enjoy a significant advantage in government decisions. The deterioration of competitiveness is also reflected in the fact that companies, in their perception of biased government decisions, do not develop or invest, as their investment in the competitive market will not pay off, but that protectionist companies will win instead of the best firms, and thus investment will become unnecessary. This is shown by the fact that investments are in the process of falling if EU money is not counted. Also, in 2015, after the arrival of major money in Brussels, this was a much smaller amount this year; this shows that investments in Hungary fell by 20 percent compared to the same comparable period last year. Industrial production, which has previously shown a very good performance increase following the crisis, is a constant disappointment this year, and the facts are becoming more modest, growth figures and performances are falling. [[10.30]] As I said, in the region, we are the rush drivers in terms of economic growth. Following last year's 3.1 percent, the domestic economy slowed down noticeably in 2016. It's good to get around 2 percent this year's growth. The Visegrád Four can no longer be treated as a single group in an economic sense. Unfortunately, Hungary is increasingly subject to one assessment with the Balkan countries, although it is not very competitive. So even though we belong politically to the Visegrád Four, in economic terms, we do not know the pace that the others do. This, in my opinion, is clearly due to a government error. The budget of the Orbán government in 2015 maintained the difficult to call professional, Matolcsy's dilettant and unpredictable economic policy, resulting in the already mentioned withdrawal of HUF 1000 billion from health, education, pension and social care. In fact, this is why the deficit has basically decreased and, on the other hand, because of the increase in revenue. So what you're saying is that you're the government of tax reductions, and in light of the facts, you can't stand it. The declining deficit is not so much the result of a thoughtful reduction in expenditure, but rather of an increase in revenue, since in the last five years, a number of new sectoral taxes have been introduced by the government, such as transaction fees, insurance taxes, telecommunications taxes, which have become permanent revenue from the budget. It started out as a temporary sectoral tax, and then it went under, and we've been paying it ever since, and it's been charged to consumers ever since. So there's no tax reduction. The revenues of the Hungarian budget increased by 24.5 percent between 2010 and 2015, while the expenditure did not occur by 23.5 percent, i.e. a real structural change. This was done with an aggregate inflation rate of approximately 17 per cent. At the same time, the structure of public finances has changed significantly, which is reflected in the functional analysis and not in order to improve the common good. So, when you look at numbers, you've brought more people bad than good. They regularly saved on welfare expenses, while they do not really want to talk about it, and even through selected examples that benefit a small group of society, they talk about this and keep quiet about the deterioration of the lives of the majority. Based on the data now published by the government, bureaucratic expenditure on public operations has increased above average during this period - so it is not true that the cheaper state you are proclaiming - there has been an increase in police expenditure and a significant increase in the economic weight and economic expenditure of the state. On the other hand, welfare expenditures have been reduced. Here, nominal growth was only 8.7 percent over the five-year period considered. In particular, pension expenditure has stagnated, which means a decrease in real terms, but the average forints for education and health have also increased. There was only one item where expenditure fell nominally, and this was defence. Last year, 250 billion forints came round for this purpose, and in 2010 it was 253 billion forints. You don't seem to be cutting red tape, which you are saying a lot. With the details opened, it turns out that there is no reduction in bureaucracy, despite the follow-up to various bureaucracy reduction programmes, at least orally. The government is supposed to be working on a program like this right now. Whether it's finally going to have any effect, that's in question. Government spending has increased significantly in law enforcement expenditure. This is probably also correlated with the increase in poverty. The government spent 455 billion on this purpose last year, compared to HUF 304 billion in 2010. Last year's expenditure growth has already been a part of one-off expenditure due to the refugee crisis, but in recent years, police wages have also started to increase, which we naturally support. They saved a lot of money on pensions, education and health care. Over this five-year period, welfare spending increased by only 8.7 percent, while in 2015 HUF 11 988 billion, or 56 percent of total expenditure, went to this goal. Within welfare spending, growth was below average everywhere, with only the government spending significantly more on cultural and sporting expenditure than its predecessors. This only appears because cultural and sports expenditures are together, but the area of culture cannot confirm this, so it is sports spending that has received extra money. At the same time, the level of spending on sports is still abnormally high, as the targeted sports expenditures increased from 68 billion in 2010 to 149 billion forints, although this does not include corporate tax subsidies, so the tao, ten billion of the tax passed, will increase this. So we can see a sharp rise here, not necessarily with effective use. Health didn't do you any good. Last year, HUF 2754.9 billion was spent for this purpose. This is a nominally only 15 per cent increase compared to 2010, as I said, with 17 per cent inflation, i.e. the real value of expenditure has decreased by 2 per cent. Even higher, 27 percent decrease in real terms in pension expenditure, where last year HUF 2987 billion was paid, compared to HUF 3322 billion in 2010. It should be noted here that the restrictions are also shown by this significant reduction, since after 2012, pensions below the age limit have been abolished and converted into social benefits, i.e. the reduction is partly the result of the other way around, but those affected can clearly report a withdrawal. It is a specific part of your budget and your economic policy, but it is a failure that the state is expanding in the field of the economy. It cannot be said that this would be effective, but it is extremely expensive. While the state is retiring from welfare areas, which would be an authentic task, its expenditure on the economy has increased significantly, which is mainly explained or explained by EU support. The biggest winner was, rightly speaking, environmental protection, taking into account EU spending, as while in 2010 HUF 307 billion was allocated to this area, this amount was already HUF 1288 billion last year, i.e. the increase exceeded 300 percent. It's a desirable process. EU aid also accounts for an increase of more than 80% in transport investment. It's the right thing to do in itself. There is a cost-effectiveness to see how much actual transport development has been achieved from such an increase in expenditure. There are already doubts that the cost use of improvements is not effective. The government's acquisitions in the energy sector, the overpriced acquisition of gas storage companies, the state purchase of completely unnecessary gas storage companies and the support of the MET, offshore gas business, with government revenues that could have been realised at Hungarian Electricity. So the acquisition of energy companies is currently not successful, and even the price analysis indicates that at least 10 percent of energy prices would be reduced if they did not want to leave the possibility of reducing the price for gas dealers that are now your friends. [[10.40]] The audit of the State Audit Office in 2015 seeks to give a correct picture of the budget, and welcomes budgetary developments. We would probably expect nothing more from the State Court of Auditors, as it is an institution trying to preserve its professional integrity, at the head of which, no matter how we look at it, an ex-fidesz representative has been set up. [[Lajos Korózs: They planted me! Defiance.]] - or planted, he's sitting here right now, and with this independence is not exactly guaranteed in an international comparison. It was critical of the auditors, even though the President included comments from the Ministry of Interior, the Ministry of National Development and the Treasury that were not accepted. This is a professional expression that, in its unaccepted comment, is an indication of the problem when the State Audit Office was unable to convince those concerned that their practice is the right one, so the State Audit Office does not accept the correction of the comment. The vast majority of these, let us admit, revealed minor shortcomings, so that the State Audit Office could not go to the bottom of the matter, in the proportions of large expenditures that appear, for example, in the areas of the Media Authority or MTVA, and, let us say, in a market comparison, could not really cover the examination of the State Audit Office. Special attention should be given to the heading "Investing extraordinary government measures" because it can be said that this line of 160 billion forints may not be that much compared to the entire budget, but this is the sea in a drop, so here comes the gentoid attitude of giving where I want to, there is no control, there is no transparency, there is no professional preparation where the boss thinks it will be given. So this is an item that makes the Hungarian budget one of the most opaque among all OECD Member States, and they also gently express it. So the OECD, in order to say that it is a great organization grown up in European culture, is a fine way of putting it, but they also noted that what is here is not visible, far from transparency. The first and largest of these is one of your flagships, the new state energy company, the First National Public Works Company Zrt. recapitalisation and related Central Data Collection and Processing Ltd. Founded with HUF 18 billion in capital insurance. It is a government idea that they want to exclude this sector from market control. Market control, competition in the market would now provide consumers with prices in the energy sector by 10 percent lower, and you will, on the other hand, reduce a National Közműszolgáltató Zrt. by another 18 billion out of tax-paying money, just to enable you to play with the prices; this means that you will not be able to play down, but at a higher level than justified. The other program, which has knocked out the security for many people, in the capital city, is the,, Liget Budapest. The cultural government has been cherishing this for years, and I'm sure it'll be very beautiful someday, but at the moment, many people think it means installing Városliget and consider the Liget project to be less environmentally friendly. This reserve or extraordinary framework has now provided HUF 2.2 billion for the preparation of the plans. Numerous sports projects have come up out of nothing to be paid for, but for example 500 million forints from the reserve have also been made to events of the Reformation Memorial, which also does not seem to be a typical extraordinary event, because the fact that something reaches 500 years is quite predictable. Why this cannot be planned on a budget line, why the emergency reserve, let's say, shows again the seriousness of the planning. The additional HUF 3.96 billion budget support of the Hungarian National Film Fund supervised by Andy Vajna will also be published here. That's what you get from the reserve instead of being put into a budget approved two months ago. So it's another deal like this, that there's some small money left in the backup, so let's give Andy, this is about 4 billion forints, he can definitely use it at the Film Fund, which is true, but that's what they say to handing it out to the face. Let's just say it's pretty round to Andy, but I don't want to offend him, I'm sure it's for the good of the filmmakers, but to give it without checking, planning, professional advice, it reflects such a strange approach. The government also spent 2.5 billion HUF on the reserve in three years to develop the Kisvárda Castle Bath and its surroundings. I don't know what a coincidence it is that the Minister for Development is also a small castle and the highest development is being developed here. To sum up, our opinion on the implementation of the budget is half a minute: the structural problems are not addressed by the report, the low level of investment is worrying, and the Orbán government has released hundreds of billions of forints of tax revenue with its unfair and unprofessional tax system, so overall this budget has not served the common good; it has served to distribute and put few people in a good position, so we cannot accept it. Thank you.
u2016-10-14-8	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr János Harghitai, the lead speaker of the KDNP Group. Here you go, Congressman. [[10.50]]
u2016-10-14-9	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, Mr President of the Court of Auditors, It can be agreed with Mr Józsa that the budget, as a legislative document and its adoption, is one of the most important parliamentary acts. One would think, as he claims, that the facts described in it can be accepted as facts, these are the facts that we analyse. He said that this was a moment of truth, because in an election campaign you can say a lot of things, but the budgets submitted and their implementation show what the government represents in a given society and how it intends to achieve it. This statement can be agreed with. He said this was a moment of truth. I agree with that. Then let us look at this truth, because in this country there is a great tradition - I refer to a legendary speaker, how this could be a moment of truth - it is a great practice for you not to open every part of the truth. Then let us also look at the slices of truth you have not spoken of, honourable Member. If we were not after your governance, then the 2015 budget could obviously be assessed quite differently. But we're tied to the situation that you brought this country into, and we need to get out of there. So we had to button the budget from 2010 to get the country back on its feet. Because, Congressman, you can't argue that your government was tragic. Everyone looked at the socialists as if they couldn't dream of visions, but they could govern in a technocratic way, because they had learned it for decades. In recent years, before 2010, this statement has also been refuted because they have not been able to manage a technocratic government. We simply have to say that they governed us by destroying the country. At the last minute, the IMF needed the incredibly large debt package to literally divert the country from collapse. These are the facts you need to see. After 2010, the Orbán government took over the governance of a country that was struggling with problems at the level of Greece and was in pre-ruptcy condition. That means-- [[To Dr. István Józsa leaving the Chamber:]] The congressman in the corridor must be following up on what I have to say; I will continue to talk to him to a large extent, even if he has left the room - that we have met a country where the budgetary situation is tragic. Not only is there no balance in the budget, but there are processes in the budget that, if the Orbán government could not manage, the country will be in a hopeless situation; where there are very few employees, and those who have jobs and do not pay taxes, there is no budgetary revenue. The country is constitutionally turning upside down, because the situation is that they cannot even legally control the municipalities - during that period it ceased to exist in the country. So it can be said that not only economically, but morally and legally, an exlex situation is almost in the country. There's a reason the electorate ordered you out of the country from under the helm. To say that we are talking about a budget - to get to it by 2015 now - which puts a few people in a position, but it is bad for many, it is simply an underestimation of the Hungarian electorate. They won't re-elect such a government. The Hungarian electorate knows very well what he is doing, because collective wisdom works. This government was re-elected just before this budget year, in 2014 by two-thirds. To say that there is a budget policy here that is good for a very few, but punishing many, I think it is so foolish that we no longer have to talk about it on the merits. What, however, is worth talking about in relation to the 2015 budget? One of my statements is that the Orbán government has been pursuing a consistent fiscal policy since 2010, and this - if this government has success and has success - is the basis for everything. If we had not been able to put the budget in order, if we had not been able to generate processes in the budget that would provide the basis for making social structural movements that would make the country happy, so if we had not always been able to establish this with the budgets and confirm this in the accounts, then the Orbán government would obviously not be able to succeed. I'm not saying everything's perfect, that's not it. That's why I referred in my first sentences to the fact that if we hadn't taken over the government after you, then the numbers that we could produce in 2015 could be discussed in a whole different refraction. But we have to start from the difficult situation where we had to move the country. The Orbán government carefully planned its 2015 budget, as it does every year. At first, we thought that GDP growth would be 2.5 percent, planned for 2.9 percent, and this was achieved to 3.1 percent. At the expoze, Mr Secretary of State said that this is well above the EU average. This can only be seen as a success. The number of people employed will increase in 2015 and not only because of the public workers, but also in 2015 we see that the number of people employed in the public sector needs to be corrected backwards, because part of the public workforce needs to be taken into account in the normal, open labour market. This was also calculated when we started public employment. We have said that it is worth it if people who are working without work, even for a temporary period, but we bring them into the public employment system; we turn them into employees who create value, pay taxes, generate budget revenue. It's good for them individually. The number of employees increased in 2015 with an increase in the number of employees in the competitive sector. Unemployment is down to 4.9 percent. There is absolutely no need for me to recall the state of the country in this regard in 2010 when we took over the country's governance. I didn't believe, I never believed, that we could produce such positive data in such a short time when I said that 4.9 percent of people have no jobs. I think it is one of the greatest achievements in the operation of the Orbán government that it has been able to create jobs for people of impossible fate who have been working without work for many years before. [[Dániel Z. Carpathian: Take more people abroad!]] Mr State Secretary also mentioned - and this is a very important part of our budgetary policy in 2015 - that we were able to increase the overall number of child benefits by 4.2 percent. We have given more resources to families raising children without reducing overall budget revenues. We managed to keep inflation low, as we did many years ago. Investment in the national economy has been criticised. We are not satisfied with the total number of investments, but what can be mentioned as a fact, which Mr Secretary of State has done, is that the volume of investments has increased by 0.6 percent. We managed to produce growth in the country in 2015 without disrupting the internal balance. You've never been able to do that. If you have previously generated growth - because you have generated - it has always been achieved by external debt. We broke up with this policy, this policy continued in 2015 and we were able to generate economic growth as I said, to a level of 3.1 percent, that it did not upset the country's internal economic balance. Compared to previous years, we can account for good export indicators, export increased by 7.7 percent, and, as the Secretary of State said, the surplus on foreign trade was at record level. We referred to the fact that others also judge our performance, not only when we evaluate the budget, but also by the end of 2016 we get to the point where all credit rating agencies confirm Hungarian economic performance, and at that point we were at a stage where we were one step ahead of each rating agency's recommended category for investment, and since then we have achieved this category. This is also part of the moment of truth, honourable Congressman Józsa. It is also important because it affects the masses that Mr Secretary of State has spoken about - of course not, because it is again part of the other section of the truth - the problem with foreign exchange creditors, which we have been struggling with for years, and this process will be completed by 2015 as a result of the various measures. [[11.00]] That's why these difficult people can get out of the trap that the previous government has. [[Anita Heringes: The Fidesz government.]] It was his inability to help them. I'm thinking about the banks being accounted for and the forinting. In 2015, we entered this budget twice in the course of the year. We can see two approaches. Mr Secretary of State - and then I will address what the President of the Court of Auditors said because it was also talkative - he recalled the amendment to the two mid-year budgetary law. Here he referred to the fact that we had twice the opportunity to provide for a surplus in 2015 by the Parliament. Back in April, we provided that BKV's debt would be taken over, that the budget had a bank stake, that the state had provided additional resources for military engagements, which we individual representatives always thought was important. More money has been made for road development and often in a completely demagogic approach, although the topic is important, we have provided much more resources for catering. Anyone who knows this system and confesses somewhere knows that today only those who do not want to eat it in this system are not accepted for free, because by the way, about everyone - I am talking about children - can eat for free, and that is basically right. Then, in the second half of the year, towards the end of the year, we changed the budget once again. It is the migrant crisis that has taken 80 billion forints in a direction that we did not have to calculate before. So there was also a challenge to the budget, which is perhaps the biggest challenge in the world. The Hungarian government was able to respond with money, with a scale of money greater than, say, the European Union encourages the management of the migrant crisis in some way. So as long as the European Union sits on its resources and manufactures theories to deal with the migrant crisis, completely unsuccessfully, the Hungarian government, perhaps uniquely in Europe, has dealt with this issue by sacrificing money, steeds, weapons, will, as far as a country can do. Obviously, I'm thinking about building a fence at the border, bringing in the extra living resources and everything else. I think that this is also confirmed by the public - and think about the referendum - that we have succeeded in doing this. So, as long as the Secretary of State spoke in the expo about the fact that we were able to decide on additional resources twice during the budget year without in any way disturbing the balance, there was no increase in the deficit, despite the significant additional resources, the budget numbers were still in place, while the President of the State Audit Office took a different approach. Of course, the two rings together; he said that in 2015 there were no restrictions due to the extra expenses I had told you about. "Why were we able to do this, " he asked, "why has there not been any reprisals in the budget? And then he brought up three things. Again, this belongs to the part of the truth that is important to tell. We were excluded from the excessive deficit procedure in 2013. We enjoyed this at all levels in 2015. Your fiscal policy pushed the country into this process, and it seemed hopeless to get out of there. This was done by the end of 2013. This meant, of course, that this country, the citizens of this country, the entrepreneurs of this country, had repaid the unbelievable amount of debt you made at the last minute in order to simply save the country from collapse. This is the second factor that the President of the State Audit Office considered important to mention. And perhaps he spoke the longest about what I think is very important, and what is related to the budgetary management of the Orbán government at all times is the system of maintenance and the system of management of reserves. It can be approached in such a foolish way, and I apologize again for the distant Member, that at the end of the year Andy Vajna, I do not know how much money has come from the reserve. But there is also a way to approach what the President of the State Audit Office did, and it seemed interesting to me about maintenance when he said that we were creating a budget reserve because it was actually meant to be a reserve. We are not saying in advance that I am calling it a reserve now, but consider this a permanent withdrawal; this would be a residual fiscal policy. He says I won't spend it for a while, and then when the budget processes go down, you can touch this reserve. That's what the Orbán government does every budget year. He also did so in 2015, he created a significant budget reserve, he carefully touched the money, watching the processes, and when certain conditions are created, it is obvious that it is possible to manage these budget reserves. It is not only possible, it is necessary in this case, as the President of the SAO mentioned. So when we look at the 2015 budget from the point of view of the moment of truth, I will say again, in summary, that we obviously are not looking at a budget year alone, because we must always see a system of budget-based budgets before us, and we cannot, unfortunately, separate ourselves from where this budget process starts, which I have shown you since 2010. Obviously, the year 2015 can only be considered as a fact on the basis of the figures submitted, and these can no longer be assessed as being in line with the previous fiscal years of the Orbán government. He continued with the economic policy goals he announced in 2010. The claims that this is good for few and bad for many are not true. Because if that were the case, he wouldn't have had a chance to steer in a long time. On the other hand, it is true that we are moving slowly, but year after year, and we can account for increasingly positive figures here, in terms of closing accounts, when we are talking about GDP growth, when we are talking about low inflation, when we are talking about persistent and sustainable deficit targets, when we are talking about fiscal balance, when we are talking about more and more employees and falling unemployment. Another sentence that Congressman Józsa mentioned. He highlighted two sectors, and he said how tragic it is that we spend less on them, so many people get hurt. According to the numbers, that's still debatable. I have in my hand the report given to us by the Court of Auditors, page 47, table 13, so that it can be controlled: the consolidated expenditure structure of public finances is broken down by functional breakdown. Congressman Józsa mentioned education and health. This functional breakdown is 10.8 percent in 2011 and 10.7 percent in 2015. So I can say that education, if I look at only these two years, has the same amount of resources in this functional breakdown. Healthcare is 8.8 percent in 2011 and 9.3 percent in 2015. With this breakdown, the sources of health have clearly increased by 2015. So when we talk about budgets and accounts, we have to stick to numbers, or else we fail to say political election speeches during the banner of the moment of truth. Thank you for listening. It's been an honor to speak to you. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-10-14-10	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr Dániel Z. Kárpa, the lead speaker of Jobbik's group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2016-10-14-11	Mr President, Dear House, At times like this, one always takes a deep breath, for we have heard a party-state speech that has been unprecedented for the last 26 years. Parliament is a little genre-deprecating with regard to the closing accounting law, for the time being - a proposal. After all, here we should basically talk about whether the previously planned figures have been fulfilled, whether the spending and payments have been regular. Compared to this, I can now say that, over a decade's horizon, there is a debate on economic policy, where all sides are obviously trying to justify their own success or the failure of the political opponent with different statistics. [[11.10]] This would not be the genre of the debate at all, but I myself will be forced - for at least a few responses - to what has been started here, especially by the pro-government fellows, mocking all kinds of professionalism, because they did not talk at all about what the proposal is about. If we are talking about the fact that, for example, my fellow Member from KDNP said that you saved the foreign exchange loaners, it is very difficult to talk about closing accounts, because from this parallel reality, we must at least try to rip back the Fidesz-KDNP representatives, that what they have imagined and in their minds there is this fairy tale and this dream world, it certainly does not exist according to a number of millions of people, or not in this form, for example, that it exists for lucky social groups, but not for the majority. So when my fellow Member of the KDNP lies that they are saving the foreign exchange credentials, he specifically said that the process, which affects the crowd of people in distress, is ending, is not telling the truth with a noble simplicity, because at the moment there are more than 140 thousand of our compatriots who are unable to perform or not fully perform, who can indeed be forced to evict, and of whom tens of thousands have attempted to start eviction, they are at least one auction in connection with the property, and we are at this point in mind that it is not up to the Government of Hungary, not on his umbrella, that relatively fewer people are being thrown out of their home than the expected one, but there are no buyers on the market. This is the main problem, not that the government protects citizens with any kind of safety net. So my request is to stay on the ground of truth in this area as well. It is, of course, possible to hold an economic policy debate instead of a closing debate, yes, we can take advantage of the fact that, in the case of an average two-working family with two children, the fourth most brutally taxed earnings are in Hungary. This is a matter of fact, not a better statistics; the statistics of an organization that you have just referred to correctly. It can also be said that not only in the European Union, but perhaps in a world record 27 percent VAT, they are punishing not only a very wide range of basic foods, but also children's education articles, in a country where there is a tragic population loss, they are taxing everyone in Hungary with a record level of 27 percent VAT. I would like to stress that this is all happening in the midst of a tragic population loss, when, unfortunately, in the past, the annual weight loss was 35,000, and then it became 40,000, and the third Orbán government could not substantially reduce it at systemic level. We have to tell you that these are really important indicators. Of course, we can talk about the 3.1 percent GDP - let us clear the picture immediately: if we clean this up from the various distorting factors of the seasonal nature, only 1.8 percent will remain, and the fact is that in Hungary, it depends on the seasonal offers of German and other car manufacturers, that this beautiful assembly plant you made Hungary, what kind of data it can produce. You can make a fairy tale about it here, of course, and you can make yourself believe it, and you can applaud yourself.The fact is that most Hungarian people can't live or thrive better than before on a systemic basis. The same is true of home creation. Moreover, you should already talk about the percentage of the EU's mass of resources that will be available next year, which will then be about half of which could also be used for construction purposes, let us say, for a home creation programme, not necessarily on a social basis. I mean, you can think on a business basis, but you're not talking about that, you're still in your fairy tale. With regard to employment, they may have the most catastrophic self-deception. After all, the number of people employed in the public sector has multiplied measurablely, above 200,000, and we should not criticize this system in itself, because it could be done well. But the fact is that if we add the student workers, we add the student workers, who have not even been classified in the employment statistics by the governments called the Social Liberals, and we add those foreign displaced Hungarians, who are now included in the Hungarian statistics of the Orbán government, the amazing situation is that the image will be distorted by half a million. The image is distorted exactly where the Social Liberal - once again - was under only named governments, but you could not make progress on a systemic basis, and you could not add anything to that. And if we should be discussing closing accounts after these introductory thoughts, we should be talking about the implementation of the central budget, and this is a very difficult situation, because instead of economic policy debates, we should be analysing how it could have happened that, in principle, we are talking about the accountability of the government, how the facts and figures have been achieved. Since the so-called change of regime, more precisely since the change of method, each government has successfully fulfilled its obligation to discharge its accounts in Hungarian: whatever the professional quality of the report - we consider this to be catastrophic - the parliamentary majority has always granted the discharge to the government. Don't tell me that for 26 years the budget in this country has always been met in a pedantic way, and perhaps only such recommendations had to be written in footnotes, because they were so perfect for both socialist and Fidesz-KDNP governments. So this debate is taking place at an amazing professional level, and it is very difficult not to include general economic policy comments, but it can be said that there is no progress in the area of accounting or accountability in the last quarter of a century in Hungary. I would add that one of the most important functions would be to have a base for next year's budget that we are talking about here, but in the meantime, the Government of Hungary is ignoring all professional expectations, international practices, and already in the summer, it accepts the budget that we should be talking about its base now. So what they're doing is professionally ridiculous. We can also see, for example, that the spending appropriations of the Prime Minister's Office are very modestly discussed; support for local authorities could be the counterexample, where they even detail to support the maintenance of border crossing points that they are planning to spend HUF 86,9 million, but between Titles 32 and 34, we are talking about the first annex to the bill, they will not disclose anything about the use of HUF 345 billion. So the big deal is that 86 million is being explained in the maintenance of border crossings, but hundreds of billions are being applauded, essentially without any substantial detail; I would add, the Court of Auditors has not added so much to this either, or at least not at the expected level. We can also see that the budget allocation of the Prime Minister's Office's budget title has been roughly doubled by the government with Parliament. It must always be stressed here at the Parliament that the majority of the pro-government vote for itself, but the fact is that this performance has been achieved, but only in terms of 75.3 percent of the expenditure. In Hungarian: what happened is that the Prime Minister's Office's budget title is essentially doubled with the National Assembly of Hungary, from which they will spend on their convenience, if you like, only three quarters of the allocated amount, and subsequently create a line of reasons for this. It can also be seen that in many other cases there is a question of what foresight and what kind of financial perspective changes in the course of the year so that spending can often be increased by one third or half of it, and then performance will not be fully achieved. So you can see that within a year you can make mistakes in two or three steps, but there are some less-explained items that are simply incomprehensible. For example, there is one such part that has other expenses. In particular, according to your wording, it is a significant item to pay for the foreign exchange assets of diplomats and diplomats working in Brussels as permanent representatives. The fact is that a significant item of expression is included on the paper, there is no explanation of what a significant item is. It's significant compared to what? What's the lot? So, once again, a few ten million will be explained for border crossings, and then they will make a significant line, write around, levitate, and from hundreds of billions they will remain silent. We also see that the same is true in terms of the Prime Minister's expenditure in rem. During the year, they were raised more than three times by the Government - ridiculously simple. But then the minister saved - quote - money, so after he was well pushed, he didn't spend much of the money, but 24.2% of the expenditure in rem is made up of advertising and propaganda, so we can say it's a clever solution. In the meantime, we also see - back to the comments on economic policy - that Hungary has continued to be classified as the fourth to fifth most corrupt state under investigation among 18 OECD countries. The State Court of Auditors would otherwise have a meaningful role to play in the fight against corruption, but this would require the control of hundreds of central budgetary bodies and their sub-schemes each year with normal quality controls, which, if I understand correctly, is now being pulled out by around a hundred of them. [[11.20]] There is also a complete audit, which is also absolutely surprising, because in the business world, with revenues above HUF 200 million and/or 50 people employed, there is an obligation to audit the accounts, and here we see that it is simply not required for hundreds of central budget bodies, and not for institutions using HUF 10 billion a year. So it doesn't hold up like that. If we continue to look at the system, otherwise it could be discussed for hours, then we see that the Court of Auditors does not notice amazing professional errors in its depth. Let me give you an example: the budget title of the Klebelsberg Institutional Maintenance Centre has spent more than HUF 18 billion on investments, while according to the first annex, it simply did not have legal authority. Please explain to me how this could have happened. For this reason, we cannot really appreciate government property management, as professional errors are causing us to find the material that gives us a characterization of the government's economic policy, which is teeming with professional errors. It can be seen that there are 720 central budgetary bodies in the Treasury Register. Compared to this, Mr President, the number of organisations and institutions involved by the SAO is only about a hundred. What about the other over six? This would require an expressive response, since the audit is far from complete. We also need to say that when we return to economic policy data, that from the point of view of GDP growth, good, let's talk about 3.1 percent, not real 1.8 figures that are purified by seasonal effects. This means that the increase of 3.1 percent was slightly greater than expected, but our lag in the region was not substantially reduced. So what we see is that regional countries have been able to deliver much more success, now they are all of them than Hungary. In Hungary, half of GDP is spent by the state with lower efficiency, and which is the most regrettable, with much higher levels of corruption than the private economy. We also see that the investment share was finally above 20 percent last year, but the indicator was 21.7 percent, but in the small and medium-sized enterprises sector this almost does not have an impact, so it is almost undetectable. The structure of GDP is also dominated by the assembly industry within industry. The question would be: if the state played such a strong role in both spending and structurally, what about the funds earmarked for the performance of the public functions, as their effectiveness would determine the outcome of the system. We see that the government spent more than HUF 3 000 billion last year, 423 billion more than the initial allocation, and 383 billion more than the modified appropriation. So we're witnessing an amazing state spending. Meanwhile, we see them talking about cutting red tape. They speak of the reduction of bureaucracy in a situation where there were never so many State Secretarys, Deputy State Secretary, Prime Minister's Advisor, Minister's Commissioner in Hungary, as at this time, during the reign of the third Orbán government. The general justification, exactly one of the annexes to your paperwork, contains information that the number of Hungarian state apparatus, civil servants and government officials has increased several times over 81 thousand. The work of many of them is extremely necessary and indispensable for the functioning of the country, but the barrier that this government is doing is completely unprecedented. It should also be seen that it would not be a problem if this government could produce tangible results in terms of the development of our competitiveness, as it unfortunately cannot. You can see that, given the average over the last decade, you can now have six years in terms of the Orbán governments, but if you take into account the last eight years, most of the last decade is already related to you. So it would be pretty nasty to always point backwards. It can be seen that the average economic growth in terms of the decade average is 1.1 percent in Hungary. I like it, I don't like it, that's what's far from the 3.9 percent increase in the country called Slovakia, the 3.8 percent annual development of Poland, but also the similar indicators of the Czech Republic and Austria and Germany, which are more advanced than Hungary. So obviously, in a more developed country, it's harder to produce those outliers. We're supposed to be developing or approaching them. Even this does not succeed, because since 2011, the competitiveness of the Hungarian economy has declined in a tendency, and last year could not change either, and the period under consideration could not change. This 1.1 percent average increase in the last decade creates a sobering, disappointing, unmanageable situation, which is why we ask that Fidesz-KDNP's pro-government representatives simply do not polish what is impossible to polish. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2016-10-14-12	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mrs Erzsébet Schmuck, Head of Group, lead speaker of the LMP Group. Here you go.
u2016-10-14-13	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, In autumn 2014, during the budget debate, the LMP criticised the submitted budget in many respects. Unfortunately, we were right on most of the points, and we're going to find that out in hindsight. We told you that this budget is the budget for the downsizing. This may have a strange effect on the noise of the current booming economic success propaganda, but unfortunately it has been confirmed. The tearing takes place on two fronts. One of them is the backwardness of the country compared to the countries in a similar situation in Central and Eastern Europe, and the deterioration of Hungary's relative situation continued in terms of financial indicators such as GDP growth and social development indicators. The other front, which is the basis of the former, is in fact the split-up of Hungarian society and the slip-down of a significant part of it. The deteriorating educational indicators, the growing grotesque state of health, the increase in the proportion of people living below the minimum level, coupled with the generous distribution of small circles and the tax system for unacceptable redistribution, cause society to break up. During 2015, it became apparent to everyone that the main obstacle to economic development was emigration. Today, there is a shortage of workers in many professions, from envelopes to bakers and nurses. This has been highlighted by the LMP for a long time and has also identified the instruments that act against it. The first is a general wage increase with a reorganization of the budget. There's no way we're getting away with this. The second additional wage increase in the public sector, where nominal wages have remained unchanged for eight years in many areas. The third is the granting of voting rights to emigrated Hungarians to maintain attachment. The fourth is community services: education, health, the Internet, the protection of the natural environment, and the rest are improvements in order to reduce emigration, especially the elimination of the countryside, and to increase the return rate. From all this, we see that the government has hardly noticed anything and made it happen. Although a series of wage developments in education was started, it was combined with the withdrawal of allowances, i.e. the increase in labour costs. In addition, it was very long gone in time, and many of the educators stayed out of it, and in health care, they only put out fire. In other areas, there was a small wage increase here and there, but it is very small, both in terms of needs and opportunities. And don't compare it to unnecessary investments and budget money allocated or stolen to your own lunar yard. The only thing the government has taken seriously is that it has detected an increase in the proportion of people under the minimum living. The reaction was born: the minimum of living has been abolished. It's a perfect solution, no indicator, no problem. Well, that's how you steer! The majority of the government must now think that this is just opposition whining, as they say, as we have heard, in terms of budgetary revenue, interest, inflation and the balance of payments, the country is now enjoying a luxurious health. Well, that's because we see it because you're separated from reality. They do not want to notice that the deteriorating real economic and social processes lie behind the seemingly excellent macroeconomic data. I do not want to mention this now; we say quite a lot that 41.5 percent of the population live below the minimum level of existence, and society is breaking up. [[11.30]] We also see that neoliberal economic policy has been perfected, and nothing matters but financial indicators and the profit shown. However, real economic and social processes are worrying, and if you do not respond to this, then we see that you can lead the country to the abyss very quickly. Even this year, it is a warning signal that, despite the EU money spent in 2015, GDP growth is slowing down, no matter what they try, and we may be pleased if it reaches 2 percent instead of the planned 2.5 percent. Two years ago, the LMP also said that the budget was a little unfounded, and, as is expected every year, in 2015 as well - it didn't have to wait too long, the amending package came in April. Let us recall what was in that amendment. On the one hand, the amendment was a perfect example of what we call the revenge of the reject. About 30 points were cited and improved the wrong wordings and inaccuracies of the law. On the other hand, the lack of preparation, such as the possibility of raising the salary of court and prosecutorial staff, which had been widely rejected before, in December, by the government side, was included in the law. The amendment also undermined predictability and doubted whether it would make sense to establish the next year in May if a budget adopted in the autumn had to be amended to this extent already in the spring. Since then, on the basis of the budgets for 2016 and 17 we can say: there is no point in doing it, because the annual processes are barely visible, the budget for the previous year is not closed, and the closing accounts have not yet been submitted or submitted, so we think that responsible planning is not possible either. It is true that a few million forints were added in the 2016 spring amendment to wage increases, social child feeding, supporting non-debt consolidation settlements, while disproportionately pouring money into pointless or harmful projects. For example, for the purchase of Erste Bank 15 billion, for the project Liget Budapest, plus HUF 10.6 billion. I would like to say a few words about the latter, because it is a very good example of the government's approach, and it is particularly topical now that yesterday, the Danube Coast in Pest was struck down by hundreds of years of trees due to the 2017 World Swimming Championship, which is also budgeted. With the Liget project, 200 billion will be spent on a program that we see no one but some obsessed with wants, and most of the people in Budapest oppose. They are wasting the resources needed to build the future, to correct education, to improve living conditions, such as housing. And they don't just waste it, they destroy it straight, they don't respect a clean and healthy environment, they cement everything, they don't respect life. After criticising and evaluating the original budget, it is worth looking at how the government's plans have evolved and how it has implemented the budget law. As regards the main indicators, a 2.5 percent increase in GDP was planned by 2015. This grew in size, 2.9 percent, but black soup came in the first quarter of 2016: GDP fell in, 0.8 percent below the last quarter of 2015. In the second quarter of 2016 there was a 1 percent increase compared to this, i.e. in mid-2016 we are now at the point where GDP is not substantially higher than at the end of 2015. This roller coaster shows exactly the drawback of fidesz management of EU funds. The budget's revenues and expenditure were also higher than originally planned, with revenues of 1050 billion, spending of 1400 billion, with a deficit of 344 billion and 1237 billion. This is, however, 3.7 percent of GDP, well above the 3% limit. Of course, we understand that this is because of the shift in EU funding, the expenditure has come before we have received the funding from the EU, and the current favourable financial situation is the result, but this is still 3.7 percent. The debt-to-GDP ratio has never been so high: 25 250 billion, which is 150 billion more than what was planned; although the GDP-to-GDP ratio has decreased due to a slightly higher increase in GDP and the known debt-reduction techniques at the end of the year. On the specific expenditure of the 2015 budget, LMP said that its biggest flaw was to cement the constraints of previous years. Education was withdrawn at an annual level of more than HUF 200 billion after 2010, but the funding of health, social care and environmental protection has also decreased, and investment in a sustainable economy has also been lagging behind, so we are moving away from an economy that could ensure long-term well-being for everyone. And then let's take a look at area one. As far as these are concerned, education was one of the crisis areas. In the field of public education, KLIK's bankruptcy was predictable, but this is also reflected in the figures. Its operation was planned at 532 billion, and it finally became 518 billion. Since then, some greater resources have been provided, but due to nationalisation of the operation there will be a financing crisis again, because the entire system, maintenance and operation will not be sufficient to receive the resources planned for 2017. This is happening so that everyone knows that education is the key area that is important for our future. On the other hand, the government only kept on firing, both financially and professionally. State support for higher education has finally increased to 190 607.9 million forints compared to the planned 152 285.9 million, but this is a fraud and partly due to the student medals that took place during the year, which broke out due to the harsh austerity plans. The government would have narrowed the available courses in higher education, faithfully to the vision of the assembly of Hungary. Such a move does not only harm the country in general, but also closes the channels of mobility. More and more of Hungary lives below the minimum of living, becomes poorer, sending the child to university for poorer families is increasingly an illusion, locking them in the low-income, struggling lifestyle, or forcing them abroad. This shows why the government's higher education policy is contrary to national interest. Dear House, The fact that some ministries have started to build their own small education system has also contributed to the increase in the resources of higher education. In 2015 the development of a new campus of the University of Physical Education began and the investment of the Moholy-Nagy University of Arts continued. However, the main problem in education is not the lack of investment resources, at least we see it as the current funding, recognition of professional work, and it is not sacrificed, but it is always the LMP amendments to raise the wages of higher education workers. Perhaps a sideline, but finally, 135 million more than planned, 5265.6 million forints were spent on the Hungarian Academy of Arts, all by throwing away all the forints spent on MMA, and it seems that this money goes to education, as it is calculated. Employment is another key area in a budget. Here, the expenditure of the National Employment Fund is underachieved. Instead of 427 364,6 million, 389 708.5 million were spent on employment policy measures. This means that it was considered less important for the state to help solve employment problems, plus two thirds of the planned amount, six times the amount of active subsidies, 253.7 billion public works, which is not a long-term solution. [[11.40]] Less money was spent on employment and training aid, and 12.3 billion forints were used instead of 14 billion. This includes training and employment support for unemployed people, such as wage subsidies, support for self-employment, and other instruments. For vocational training and adult training support, very little was planned, HUF 16 billion, which is less than 4 percent of the Employment Fund. In the end, they spent almost double, 30 billion, but still in few ways. On the one hand, only half of what was collected from employers at the VET contribution address - HUF 65 billion - is where the rest will be. According to the government's assessment, on the one hand, employment continued to grow dynamically in 2015, unemployment decreased and, on the other hand, real wages increased partly due to low inflation, which also helped to boost domestic demand. However, and you do not mention this, the lack of labour was a serious problem already in 2015. Since 2013, the number and proportion of job vacancies have increased significantly, with 18 percent in 2015 at national level and 44 thousand job vacancies on average. The start of EU labour market programmes has also been delayed according to the closing accounts. Instead of EUR 49,2 billion planned for the pre-financing of labour market programmes for the 2014-2020 period, 13.7 billion was spent. Unfortunately, negative processes in the environment and agriculture dominated this year as well. For example, in the context of the eradication of the environmental institutional system, almost half of the National Institute for Environmental Affairs was allocated to 227 million grants instead of 404 million. He also spent less from central sources on conservation compensation and water management. Fortunately, only half of the project, instead of 28 billion, was spent in Paks II. investment, but we see that every penny here is a waste of money. In agriculture, in 2015 they started the land for farmers! The program. Like the energy privatization of the Horn government, they sold and deprived the community of a strategic resource, the land - we have said this many times - of the ten percent of the land on its hands. Sales revenues were just beginning to apply in 2015, although there is no record of this in the budget. The government wants to use the revenues illegally and unconstitutionally to reduce public debt, so LMP will once again turn to the Constitutional Court, which has already stated that revenues can only be used to buy land. In the 2015 budget, the revenue from the lease came on the basis of 6683 contracts for 374 679 hectares, which amounted to HUF 7653.5 million. This is a significant amount, even if large oligarchs, such as Csányi, pay very little rent. This annual amount can be largely said by the state for land privatisation. The purchase of land worth HUF 1.4 billion by the National Land Fund covers in part the elimination of ownership communities for the reduction of undivided joint ownership shares and the settlement of the difference in the value of land exchanges for the purposes of the acquisition. This is shamefully few, especially given the size of the problem. The elimination of the undivided common land that has caused a serious economic disadvantage has been waiting for two and a half decades, while the privatisation of 70 percent of the state-owned land has been disrupted by Fidesz since November of last year. It also shows that the government is concerned not with solving real problems, but only with fattening up its own moonyard. Finally, a few words about wasteful and unnecessary spending and investments. In 2015, they amounted to hundreds of billions, only items with separate lines, not to mention overpriced or even 95 percent stolen EU and domestic projects. In 2015, public money flowed into private pockets in a quantity that we see as hardly an example of in modern history. In the budget, the investment in Paks can finally be identified as 14 billion, the start of moving to the Castle, the Liget project, 50 billion stadiums, 52 billion to Eximbank, and more. But unnecessary and wasteful spending includes a large part of the 70 billion allocated to the public media, the 50 billion tao for sport purposes. Unfortunately, there are hundreds of examples of wasting and draining EU funds, which LMP presents from week to week in the context of corruption information. The government and its supporters will surely think that we can do this, although these hundreds of billions of people will be very much missed, especially if EU funds run out. I will miss them, because in order for everyone to have a living job, health, housing, natural and human environment, it would be necessary to do so, and unfortunately, to do so would require much more resources than at present. Thank you for your attention.
u2016-10-14-14	Thank you, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. Independent Members do not take part in the budget debate, they do not sit in the Chamber, so Imre Ritter spoke on behalf of the committee representing the nationalities. Speaker, you have the floor.
u2016-10-14-15	Sehr geehrter Herr Vorsitzende, sehr geehrtes Parliament! Erlassen Sie mir bitte meine Rede mit einem Zitat von Johann Wolfgang von Goethe zu beginnen. Er hat gesagt:,, Toleranz sollte eigentlich nur eine vorübergehende Gesinnung sein, sie muß zur Anerkennung führen. Dulden heißt bezidigen. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Allow me to begin with a quote from Johann Wolfgang von Goethe, which reads: "The tolerance can only mark a temporary condition that should lead to recognition. Accepting in itself is an insult. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. On 21 November 2014, nearly two years ago, I began my comment with this Goethe quote in the general debate of the 2015 Central Budget Act. I thought it was important to repeat this quote and to explain it a little bit, because acceptance, tolerance from a national point of view is as if they could tolerate and tolerate their presence, even though they have added their knowledge, work, talent to the prosperity of the country in which they lived and have been citizens for centuries. If necessary, they sacrificed their lives for Hungary. So acceptance is not enough, only acceptance is an insult in itself. We want more, we expect more: recognition. Our ancestors' lives provide a sufficient basis for recognition, and we are still working for it. It's a condition of recognition, and it's based on knowledge. After that, I gave a brief overview of the main areas, problems, tasks and backgrounds of the draft budget for 2015 concerning the nationalities living in Hungary. Allow me to come back to these in a sketch. The first is nationality NGOs. I started with the support of national NGOs, as they are the guardians of ethnic culture, ethnic traditions, ethnic identity. The operating and programme support of national minority NGOs was 110 million forints in 2014, while the support of native school camps was only 30 million forints, which had not increased since 2002, i.e. since then 12 years ago, and satisfied only one or two percent of the legitimate needs. [[11.50]] The area of individual support was the other, where I welcomed and thanked the national minority communities with the joint intergovernmental ethnicity committee - Croatian, Romanian, Serbian, Slovak, Slovenian - on more or less regular basis. However, the majority of nationalities in Hungary did not have this option systematically, and it was therefore necessary to provide a specific source, all the more so, as the number of national minority institutions adopted by national authorities has already increased significantly and will continue to increase in the future. The third was the situation of national ethnic authorities. In the case of national minority self-governments with very diverse and diverse tasks, changes in public finance legislation in 2008, further legislative changes in 2012 and then the general government and accounting changeover in 2014 continuously and permanently increased operating costs. Despite this, support for national minority self-governments was minimal between 2008 and 2010 and did not increase at all in the fiscal years 2011-2014, even during the period of legislative changes and additional tasks. In 2008 there was a significant change in the support systems of local and regional self-governments, commonly known as local minorities, with the introduction of a transition to task-based support. However, as a result, the overall operating aid rate has become impossible and its amount has been frozen. On average, the operating support of the municipal self-governments in 2014 was HUF 221 833 gross per year, corresponding to HUF 14 556 per month net. In addition, this was the average operating aid, the smaller national authorities received only a part of it, about HUF 9,000 per month net, and they would have received it, because of this compulsory bank account management they even had to pay bank costs. Finally, I concluded in summary that the problem for all the listed areas of nationality is not only that the amount of aid has not increased for 6-8-10-12 years, but also that it is at least as serious that they were deeply underfunded even at the start. Following these decades of negative, increasingly suffocating history, the draft law on the central budget of 2015 was submitted, which still did not include any HUF increase, and even the sum of individual ethnicity grants was reduced by HUF 735 million compared to 2014. Many have rightly said that this draft budget has been pushing the Hungarian nationalities who have been increasingly tired of drowning for many years, as those who have said so could support this with real statements and objective facts. However, we, the advocates of nationalities in Hungary - using the new opportunities provided by our mandate - tried to change this situation. We thought that nothing in life would be given for free, that everything had to be worked out, that it had to be fought. Therefore, we have assessed and compiled in detail the needs of Hungarian nationalities for the 2015 budget. Our proposals were sent long before the budget was submitted to all the factions, professional wallets. With months of continuous work, multi-stage coordination, compromise opening, we reached a consensual package of amendments, which were considered professionally sound by the wallets, which we were promised to support by all parliamentary groups and by independent representatives, before the general debate on the draft budget law began. Our proposal to amend the law, with which the support of less than HUF 4 billion was increased by more than 50 percent and by around HUF 2 billion, was unanimously accepted by the Hungarian Parliament, which we are grateful for. By doing so, the 2015 Central Budget Act was a clear breakthrough, a meaningful, positive shift, and opened a new chapter in the relationship between Hungarian ethnicities and Hungarian politics. To illustrate the significance of the breakthrough, let me refer back to my first speech in Parliament, when I began my comment on the report on the 2013 Central Budget Act and the accounts: I am in an easy position because I can give an honest professional opinion without responsibility and commitment, because we, the nationalities in Hungary, unfortunately, had nothing to do with the central budgets of 2013 and the previous years, the preparation and acceptance of them. On the other hand, our amendment to the draft law on the central budget of 2015 could be drawn up on our own, we could personally coordinate with the professional wallets and the factions, and in the political decision on its total amount, our opinion was taken into consideration in substance, and even, in view of the total, the priorities of each ethnic area, the size and internal proportions of the sum, we, the nationalities living in Hungary, could decide for ourselves. For the first time in the last 25 years, the draft central budget law and its amendments have been decided before the Hungarian Parliament, not without us and above our heads, but in that regard, the opinions of the nationalities living in Hungary have been heard and taken into account. [[Dr. János Latorcai, vice-president of the Parliament, takes the chair.]] The results achieved speak for themselves. Let me highlight only one example of this, which is the most important area for us: increasing the funding and funding of our children, our future, and what we are most proud of, the mother tongue student camps. As I mentioned earlier, this framework remained at HUF 30 million a year from 2002 to 2014, which we were able to increase to HUF 90 million threefold in the 2015 Central Budget Act, then to HUF 270 million ninefold in 2016 and HUF 360 million in 2017, i.e. twelvefold in comparison to 2014. I would just like to add quietly and quietly that this twelvefold increase is still only about one third of the legitimate needs, but this is rightly and without exaggeration - and not only from the point of view of our nationalities - a historical change. Finally, let me remind you of the closing thoughts of my first festive speech to Parliament on 30 June 2014. Democracy is undoubtedly the most advanced political form, despite the fact that minority nationalities in democracy can never enforce their will directly, with their votes, even for the simple reason that we Hungarian nationalities do not have the right to vote yet. The well-being of nationalities therefore depends on the loyalty, sensitivity, responsiveness of the majority society, the rightful and positive discrimination it uses for the benefit of nationalities. [[12.00]] This is also a test and measure of the maturity of democracy in Hungary. We, the spokespersons of the Hungarian nationalities, did what we could in connection with the 2015 Finance Act, which was ours. You, the Hungarian Parliament, have adopted and voted in favour of our amendments. That was your responsibility. The result and success are indeed common. This positive vote has clearly confirmed and made indisputable the very positive change that has been felt for several years, the essence of which is that Hungarian politics understands and now knows: national cohesion and the creation of national unity must be founded at home by embracing national minorities in Hungary, guaranteeing genuine, guaranteed national rights. Only this can provide a stable basis, credibility and effectiveness in the long term for efforts related to Hungarian ethnicity living outside the border, supported by us and considered absolutely legitimate. It's in everyone's best interest. On this basis, we, the nationalities living in Hungary, can finally represent Hungary honestly, with a good heart, authentically in our mother countries and throughout Europe, which is also our priority. Thank you so much for listening. Danke für Ihre Aufmerksamkeit!
u2016-10-14-16	Thank you very much. I would like to welcome my fellow Members. I give the floor to Congressman Font Sándor for a two-minute speech. Here you go.
u2016-10-14-17	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ms.Erzsébet Schmuck, Head Speaker of the Group, has also expressed a critical position on land and land issues and I do not think that the land has been established for farmers. In connection with a program. Just a few facts, since I do not want to argue with your broad and political wording, we do not have time for that. The land for the farmers! As part of the programme, 195 thousand hectares were sold by the State. That's 70 percent of the announced land. I would like to point out that some 1 million 700,000 acres remain in the state's possession. Just after today's bill, we will talk to farmers later this afternoon! ..program.. I deeply disagree with the fact that Hungarian farmers did not have any land left, because they were the ones who bought it, not few, some 30 thousand Hungarian farmers, farmers and farmers - who have this qualification as farmers - could buy the state land. Several times, there was a advertised area, which was not bought. The state does not want to sell the areas that are now not offered to bid, it is likely that they will be advertised later in a rental form, but the fact remains that the areas below 3 hectares are maintained by the State, so that, if possible, those who bid for these very small areas can buy this. So land for farmers! The real winners of the program were Hungarian farmers, which proves all your facts. Thank you. [[It's a rare round of applause from the pro-government ranks.]]
u2016-10-14-18	Thank you very much, Congressman. State Secretary Péter Benő Banai asked for the floor from the government. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2016-10-14-19	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. In keynote speeches and speeches, there were some common motives that I think are worth responding to. First of all, I would like to join in the statement that was first made by Mr István Józsa, and then on which Mr János Hargitai insisted, namely: the moment of truth will come at the hearing of the closing report. If I look at the year 2015 from this perspective, not only at the budget, but also at the macroeconomic process, then there was a common motive in several keynote speeches, with which I think that - factually, from the point of view of the truth, from the point of view of the slick figures - the proposals can be debated. In the first place, whether the year 2015 was marked by a break-down, whether it was a deterioration of competitiveness or something else. In terms of figures, we can say that after 2013, after the turn of growth, the growth of the Hungarian economy was substantially higher than the average of the European Union each year, based on the statistics of the European Union in my hands. I think it is a very strong measure of competitiveness. Moreover, this economic catch-up, as President Domokos said, is a real convergence, has been achieved while the balance indicators have improved. It can be said that we still have a task in the area of competitiveness, and I agree with Mr Józsa, that there are subjective indicators in which international surveys have undoubtedly been carried out, which have included a deterioration of competitiveness, but which must be dealt with at the same time in their place. In particular, Hungary was further back in the competitiveness ranking of a non-profit organisation based in Geneva in the last period. However, it should be noted that objective, numerical indicators in this organisation's assessment are only one third weight, and the other indicators are determined on the basis of subjective management feelings. To give an example: if the local company manager in Botswana considers public service relations to be good, then the competitiveness of Botswana will prevent the Hungarian case if the Hungarian company manager sees the processes less well. [[Intercoms from the benches of the MSZP.]] I would like to draw attention to the fact that we should try to return to the objective numbers of economic competitiveness that can be described by numbers, and, in this respect, after this growth turn in 2013, which was, by the way, the most significant fiscal consolidation in the European Union, I think we can see very positive figures in 2015. In addition to growth, it was said that the current balance of payments developed, that Hungarian companies exported more than before, and that imports increased less than exports. It has been said that the number of employees has also increased significantly in the competitive sector. After that, I ask why if businesses do not believe in the Hungarian economy, if competitiveness is not increasing, then why GDP has increased by 3.1 percent, and why the Hungarian economy is now characterised in many areas, not by unemployment, but by a lack of skilled labour in many areas. The second point, which has been made in several contributions, is the development of health, education and social expenditure. Here, Mr Józsa, if I have memorized his sentences correctly, he said that public money was withdrawn from health, education and the social sector in the order of HUF 1000 billion. [[Márta Demeter: Unfortunately, that is true.]] I would like to draw the honourable Members' attention to page 255 of the closing proposal before you, and let me say that since the development of education, health and other welfare functions has been repeated on several occasions, I should like to give concrete figures from the figures for 2015. Compared to spending on educational activities and services in 2014, there was an increase of HUF 150 billion in 2015. In particular, consolidated internal cumulation spending increased from HUF 1721.99 bn to HUF 1874.5 bn. In the case of health, spending increased from HUF 1404.2 billion in 2014 to HUF 16331 billion. This is nearly HUF 230 billion in extra expenditure. Social security and welfare services: spending increased from HUF 5031.2 billion to HUF 5176.04 billion. Here's a 145 billion-dollar expenditure increase. We were talking about pensions. The Fundamental Law adopted by the Parliament states that the real value of pensions cannot be reduced. In recent years, we have seen it, and the 2015 closure report also confirms that the real value of pensions has not only preserved its level, but also increased in 2015. [[Interview from the benches of the MSZP: Tell that to the pensioners!]] In this block... please, Congresswoman, let's look at the facts. [[Anita Herring: People don't understand.]] In this block, unemployment-related expenditure, which has often been mentioned, has been reduced. Why? Because, as has been said many times, the number of employees has increased. [[Lajos Korózs: They will not receive care!]] If we compare the figures not only by the year 2014 but also look at them in a broader perspective and compare ourselves with other countries, then I also draw attention to the fact that, in addition to the region, where, for example, we can look at the development of Croatian data, let us also look at those countries that were in a similar economic situation in 2010 as Hungary. [[12.10]] Then the health care, which is often said to be a withdrawal of funds; factually, Eurostat data on health, let me quote. Greece is often an example; I will also say another country. In Greece, health expenditure per capita was nominally reduced by 47,8 percent between 2009 and 2014, based on the last Eurostat figures. In Portugal, nominal health expenditure per capita decreased by 20.5 percent; in Spain, nominal health expenditure decreased by 13.7 percent. They increased by 19.5 percent in Hungary. So when we talk about whether or not the state has provided additional resources in one area, perhaps the opposite, I respectfully ask everyone to look at the facts on the basis of which the moment of truth is coming. I agree that in many areas - I often say so - the government still has work to do, but I think it is difficult to argue with the figures, the numbers mentioned above, which are validated by the State Audit Office in Hungary and Eurostat numbers. What concerned the points on how transparent the budget was, whether or not it was an unconventional distribution of money: I think that this budget implementation proposal, which we call a closing accounting, not only shows in the hundreds of pages of main book, but also in the several kilos of detailed documents how much money has been used. As the President of the State Audit Office pointed out, the Government decided, on the basis of the margin of discretion, to use the reserves, which, moreover, was presented in detail and in detail. All reserves were used by a public government decision, and I repeat, the details of which are set out in the submitted bill. With regard to growth, allow me to argue with Mr Dániel Z. Carpathian, who said that seasonally adjusted growth was 1.8 percent. I'm asking you to look at this data. I can interpret the seasonal adjustment for quarterly data. There is no adjustment for annual data, so it is not quite clear to me what indicator this 1.8 percent figure came out on. As regards the processes of the year 2015, Mr Dániel Z. Kárpát mentioned a number of areas where he felt that government and parliamentary action were insufficient. As an example, he mentioned the rescue of foreign exchange creditors, measures to assist children and the tax system. I do not want to waste time, but I say that the Member mentioned just areas where the Hungarian Government, the Hungarian Parliament and the other responsible bodies made decisions that differ significantly from the decisions of other European Union countries, and which, in many cases, contained a very significant solution to a particular problem by setting a precedent for other countries. In the case of foreign exchange lenders, let me remind you that, before 2010, 70 percent of retail loans were denominated in foreign currency, which is now around 1 percent. In the case of measures to help children, as indicated in the 2015 accounts, the state provided significant additional resources of hundreds of billions of HUF, either through family tax incentives or through other measures to assist children. With the tax system, there is no doubt that a tax rate of 1 percentage point lower than any tax rate is possible until the tax-free situation is achieved. I ask you, for example, what taxes should be used to finance expenditure on education and health. The key question, I think, is how to find the optimal economic policy mix with which to achieve a number of goals, and I think that the 2015 final report shows that the economic policy followed by the government since 2010 has, on the basis of the figures, been successful overall in 2015. With regard to the assessment of the figures, let me also respond to some specific points raised by Ms Erzsébet Schmuck. One of the questions that I'm honestly surprised is whether or not the government was engaged in neoliberal economic policy. She said that the government had a neoliberal economic policy, and that wage development in the public sector, for example, was barely there. I must say that I have rarely heard this characteristic of Hungarian economic policy. According to my knowledge, neoliberal economic policy reduces pensions and wages in the first place in a post-economic crisis, as has happened in many countries of Europe, in contrast, in contrast to many recommendations, the government has chosen the exact opposite path. I have often said that among crisis management strategies, 17 countries of the European Union have, to my knowledge, reduced the number and/or wages of the public sector. This was not the case in Hungary, so the government did not follow such a neoliberal recipe, and when we look at where, for example, there was wage development in the public sector: yes, there was an area, there is an area where there has not been any wage development, but this is the smaller part. Public education, health, social sector, law enforcement workers, defence workers, government officials, public sector workers for whom wage development has been completed, and additional wage measures have been implemented, for example, in the judicial and prosecutorial field referred to by you as a criticism of the amending budget. I think that the responsible budget, if there is room for extra expenditure, should be amended in proportion to the economic performance. Thank God, thanks to the performance of the Hungarian economy, it was possible to secure surpluses twice so that at the same time, rather than meeting the original deficit and debt targets, the government did better. She pointed out in fact that the general government deficit was above 3 per cent. With the new GDP figure, that's 3.6 percent. She pointed out in fact that this was mainly due to the advance of EU aid. Here, however, we have to ask whether the state did the right thing when it did so. What was the solution? What was to be done when the European Commission did not transfer funds? Should the payments have been stopped to the beneficiaries? That's not what the government chose. All the aid has been paid to the beneficiaries, and even has made significant commitments. That is why we can now say that we see the maximum use of EU funds and that it was able to do so by having the ability to finance that made it possible to advance EU funding. I would like to draw attention to the fact that payments made not only from the domestic budget but also from these European Union funds have to be taken into account, and in this respect, Mr Józsa quoted precisely the large use of EU funds for environmental protection. Which is the land for the farmers! As regards the comparison of the programme with the privatization of the period between 94 and 98, I would like to join Mr Font Sándor here with the idea that I think that the two periods cannot be compared. The first privatisation was about the privatisation of natural monopolies. I think it was also the result of this that utility prices have increased significantly. I think that the people of Hungary, the Hungarian families, were the victims of this privatisation. I think, on the other hand, the land for farmers! The Hungarian farmers are the beneficiaries of the programme, as they can also strengthen their competitiveness and the level of employment in agriculture. On the basis of all this, I think that the 2015 accounts are trying to show the fair picture, the moments of truth, and this presentation shows that both at macroeconomic level and at the level of individual residents and families, the year 2015 was positive. I, if I may say, do not wish Hungary a worse account. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]] [[12.20]]
u2016-10-14-20	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, Four of them signed up for a two-minute speech, but only after the block do I have the opportunity to give the floor for a two-minute comment, because before that, Mr Secretary of State entered after two minutes of our fellow Member's speech. We will now continue with the proper speeches. I would like to take the floor first from the Fidesz Group to Mr Sándor Czomba. Here you go.
u2016-10-14-21	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, Perhaps not surprisingly, I would like to address the employment area. As the Secretary of State pointed out at the beginning, what is happening in employment is also of great importance for public finances, as much of the revenue is generated in this area. So it is a very important issue not only from a moral point of view, but also from a financial point of view. I've done something else, but the thing is, if we're not even right in the figures, we're actually gonna talk side by side. What we are constantly hearing from the opposition indicates that the figures that arise in relation to employment are not true at all. Therefore, allow me to take a Vargabe detour and say a few thoughts about it, and then we can discuss it later. On the one hand, I would like to fix that the methodology of the KSH has not changed since 1992; you have seen the public workers before, you have seen the foreigners before, you have seen the student work before. So I think it is not worth considering individually the data that the opposition believes the government is embellishing the data, because they have been present in the statistics in previous years. In fact, there are three main legs in this area: competition, public employment and foreign workers. I would like to indicate and record that those working abroad who live permanently with their families or even independently abroad are not remembered by the KSH either in 92 or in 2015 because there is no data on them. There are those in the KSH statistics who move within a year, fellow Members, and look at these figures: in 2009 there were 50,000 people in scale, between 2010 and 110 thousand in 2010 and so let us assume that their number has increased by 60 thousand. Between 2010 and 2016, the number of employees in Hungary increased by 660,000, according to the data of KSH. Let's take out 60 grand of this, which is the increase of the foreign currency, then we'll have 600,000. Let's see how many people were in public employment in 2009. It's about 80 grand, by the way. How many were there in 2016? It's about 250,000. For the sake of simple calculation, let's make it 280,000, and then we'll have 200,000. Let's subtract 200,000 out of 600,000, we'll have $400,000 left. So our statement is that in the last five to six years, the number of employees in the competition sector has increased by 400 thousand in Hungary. I would like to ask my fellow Members to record this figure in their heads and acknowledge that this is a huge thing. Obviously, the situation was different between 2010 and 2013 when a large number of people had to have jobs with nearly 0 percent GDP, and the question before the Hungarian government was to provide opportunities through a relief system or through work, and the Hungarian government, I think, rightly decided to bring in the public employment tool system and help people to get a job and a job income. There is no doubt that the situation is different in terms of 2014, 2015 and this year, because when there is a 2-3 percent increase in GDP, we can see that there is now a very serious shortage of labour in addition to unemployment, and I say that in virtually every area. The second is a very important question: we always hear from Jobbik and the leader of the LMP that we are a country of multis, assembly plants. From the point of view of employment, I would like to draw the attention of my fellow Members that, if these multinationals were not, there would be about 600 thousand fewer people working in the competition sector, and I have not yet included those who belong to this segment in Hungary as suppliers. Of course, it is a legitimate demand and expectation that these multi-company companies not only bring the wage work here, but also establish themselves, set their roots, and come here with R &amp; D and everything else. This is our joint task with the Hungarian Government, and I believe that there have been a number of steps in this, but questioning their presence is pointless. I also think that the place of public employment, its role, as I have just said, should be revalued. This form of employment is very good for as long as it provides work instead of aid, but it does not take you further if it becomes a barrier to taking up work in the competitive sector, both in terms of convenience and in other respects. And I must say that the signs of this are strong, not only in Győr-Moson-Sopron County, but also in my narrower country, Szabolcs-Szatmár-Bereg County. Because while we see that the unemployment rate is rather low, and we are pleased about that, but the unemployment rate alone, the figure of 5, 4 or 6 percent, does not say anything if I don't add employment data. We are better at the unemployment rate than the Swedes, Norwegians or Finns, and I could list a lot of other countries, but we need to look beyond what the employment rate is, and to what extent employment in the competition sector is shown and shown. As I mentioned earlier, in many cases there is no man in the competition sphere, but there was no one to remove the apple, the cherry, the raspberry, and I could list it, so there is practically no solar number for 5 thousand forints per day. So the situation is more serious or more serious than what we, as politicians, are arguing with each other. The data is good, and I think that the direction that we have taken in this case over the past few years has been important, necessary and necessary, but I think that we need to re-orient our affairs, because I actually find that at the moment in public employment there are people who have no place for work there, because they have the qualifications and qualifications that they can have in the competitive sphere. This is when the next problem arises that it is a puzzle that cannot be put together, because the unemployed are not where the labour needs are. One third of the country has two thirds of the unemployed - this is Borsod, Hajdú, Szabolcs and the southern part of Baranya -, 60 percent have a low school education, there are very many at the two ends, over 25 years and over 55 years, most of them are ladies who are in the register and are more difficult to find. In English, we are talking about a much more complex problem than we can see or perceive at first reading. So here's what we're gonna do in the next period, plenty for all of us. I am convinced that new instruments are needed. What we call active employment policy instruments, I believe that their effectiveness and weight should be significantly increased in the coming years, and that the share of the Labour Market Fund, the proportion of public employment policy and active employment policy instruments for the benefit of the active ones should be increased intensively over the next period. I don't want to go too far, but since we've talked about figures: the thing is, if we don't make a trend turn in demography, we'll have 8 1/2 million people within the border by around 2050. From now on, we can cut down on our science with the percentage, the ratio, and what will happen, because the denominator will have a smaller number than it is now, and it will show a good value, but what will happen to our productivity, what will happen to our growth, what will become of our strength and much more. These are very serious problems, although, in view of the backbone of the 2015 accounts, they are obviously not the most important topics, but I took the liberty of explaining this in a little more detail, because if we are going to argue in the next period, and the opposition is always going to take a swing and say, of course, there are also public workers, foreign and student work, let alone the government. That's no way to go about it. If there is no common platform and based on real dreams, we do not all say what the fact is, and by drawing conclusions from the fact how and in what way we can move forward, then we in Parliament will practically talk side by side with each other without knowing the real problems. Well, reality usually comes up against you, and sooner or later you're gonna say yours. So I think that we should proceed, not now, but let us continue this debate on whether these numbers are actually correct or not, and whether the government's actions have been effective in terms of the biggest problem, the demographic problem in recent years. In my opinion, the Hungarian Government has noticed this clearly and in time, but we know very well that it will not start down in a year or two, but it will also be a huge challenge and a challenge to reverse it in the next period. [[12.30]] I think that, in view of all of this, I strongly recommend the adoption of the Act on the closure accounts for 2015, because the figures and fact figures that are in it are true, but the conclusions should be drawn, and these aspects should also be taken into account in the area of employment policy in the next period. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-10-14-22	Thank you very much, Congressman. The next speaker from the MSZP Group is Mrs Márta Demeter. Here you go, Congresswoman.
u2016-10-14-23	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Fellow Members! Mr. Secretary. Mr Sándor Czomba, please allow me to react in one sentence only. I think that a number should be noted in any way: 600 thousand young people who have left Hungary in recent years and do not know when they are planning to come back at all, precisely as a result of bad government measures. Now I would like to move to the chapter of the Hungarian Defence Ministry, the closing account, where, quite frankly, the question of why the order has changed, why it is good that the Hungarian Parliament adopts the next year's budget sooner than it would have seen in the previous years. After all, as my fellow Member István Józsa mentioned, and Mr Secretary of State reflected on this, it is indeed a moment of truth, so we can account for how the budget has been used, what are the areas in which farming needs to be improved, where more resources need to be put. This is clearly reflected in the operation of the Hungarian Defence Forces, and this chapter of the 2015 accounts reflects our concerns. It is totally unacceptable for me that the budget of the defence for 2017 has been accepted in such a way that we have not yet seen the numbers of,, 15 precisely and farming. I would like to go to the budget in the first place, as the Hungarian Defence Office's budget has never been below 1 percent since the change of regime. This was resolved by the Orbán government from 2010. In three years, more than HUF 200 billion was withdrawn from the operation of the Hungarian Defence Forces. This is because we are aware that such a huge withdrawal of funds has never been overfunded by the Hungarian Defence Forces, so that if, otherwise, the skills have ceased, and unfortunately, this has happened, it will not cost HUF 200 billion to replace them, but at least HUF 400-500-600 billion. So I think it was extremely irresponsible for this to happen. The budget cuts stopped last year. Two decisions have been made. One is the development of salaries, which mainly affected the professional staff. I think this is actually a positive thing, and it is absolutely necessary to acknowledge it. However, it is also a fact that since 2010, the civil servant's salary has been frozen continuously, which also calculates the salary of the military staff. At least in 15 the professional has done this, which has contributed to a drastic reduction in the defence budget. There was also a government decision to increase the defence budget by 0.1 per cent of GDP per year. But let's see what's going on. What's this 0.1 percent enough for? After all, this was completed in 2015 by the development of salaries in about two thirds of the year. We know that the technical tools and conditions of the operation of the defence, depreciation, are much higher than 0.1 per cent of GDP, which the government carries out every year. So, in any case, we need a great deal of funding for the operation of the defense. It is necessary to ensure 2 percent of GDP as soon as possible, as this is the only way to achieve any development. So I think 0.1 percent might be just enough to maintain the ability to function, but no improvement can be made in substance. And as we have reviewed the main figures in the summary, it is clear that between 2010 and 15 the budget is down by 18% in real terms. So despite the extra resources, it couldn't, you could say, even compensate. Let us also look at the situation of the staff, as we know that the Chief of Staff, according to his own statement, is understaffed by the Hungarian Defence Office. Expert estimates show a much higher shortage of nearly 8,000 people. In the chapter summary of the closing accounts, we can see that, in essence, the government recognises in this volume that the average statistical number of defences continues to show a particularly decreasing trend. From 2014 to 15 only between these two years, it shows an average decrease of 314 people. And if we look at the categories in which the reduction occurs, the most drastic shortage is the executive staff, the crew's contract staff. I think that this is a very important problem that needs to be addressed. The number of Hungarian defences is 29,700, which the Hungarian Parliament determines is absolutely necessary for the performance of the basic tasks of the Hungarian Defence Forces, so the Hungarian Defence Office can carry out its tasks properly with this number. Compared to this, only what we can see from these numbers, we are now at almost 6,000 people, which is lacking. So I think we need to work this out. We have repeatedly tabled a proposal for a resolution to start the upload. Unfortunately, as usual, the pro-government majority rejected this every time and the committees rejected it. The point here would be to take concrete action now. It doesn't matter who is submitting and what proposal now, the point is that action is to be taken in this area at last. And if we are talking about the situation of the stock, it is important to mention that in connection with the Calvary of the Honvéd Health Insurance Fund, HUF 1.8 billion was lost, which was specifically a savings of 27 thousand soldiers, national security, law enforcement and defence workers for health purposes. Since then, compensation has been started at the Information Office, but nothing has happened since then at the Ministry of Defence and Home Affairs. At least, if nothing else, we have been promised by the Ministry of Defence that in some legislation there may be an opportunity for compensation. But about what concerns soldiers and defence workers, we can talk about 1.2-1,3 billion forints in total. I would like to draw attention here to the fact that, for example, the defense wallet spends nearly HUF 3 billion a year on war grave care. Of course, this is also an important task that needs to be carried out, but, for example, it turns out from the closing account that in 15 we managed to expand it by nearly HUF 1 billion from the National Security Fund. This means, I think, that it is not necessarily necessary to provide extraordinary and extra resources for this, but, for example, from a very slightly increased amount, the soldiers and defence workers concerned could and should have been compensated by 2015 already. For years, spending on national and military development programmes has been steadily falling, and between 2012 and 15 it has decreased by more than HUF 1 billion. In any case, this would require the opposite process, and these expenditures should definitely be increased. The national military strategy determines the proportion of personnel allowances, operating and development expenditure at 40, 30 and 30 per cent respectively. Compared to this, what is now achieved is 46 percent, 40 percent and only 13 percent of development expenditure instead of 30 percent. [[12.40]] In any case, it should be noted that the Gripen programme represents a huge part of this 13 percent, so it seems that government does not invest resources in modernisation. In addition, the proportion of assets described at zero is constantly increasing, with a 28 percent in 2014 and 31,2 percent by 2015. This indicates an ageing of technical means, so we are talking about a huge number. I think that there are countless examples of how the defence tools are getting older, how they can be replaced, modernised, and, by the way, a complete strategic thinking about developments is now essential. With regard to the air force, we should mention the question of the An-26s and the question of helicopters. For example, the problem with An-26 is not that the President of the Republic does not get from A to B, but the problem is that he cannot provide the necessary logistics for a mission, or, in the case of a domestic qualified period, these machines cannot carry out their task, is a huge problem, and it is essential to provide extraordinary and governmental resources and central resources, because it is impossible to achieve them from the Hungarian Defence Fund. On the helicopter issue, we saw that there was consensus in 2013, that all parties agreed that there was a need for a helicopter tender, and that together we could solve the helicopter capacity needs of the Hungarian Army, the police and the air ambulance, and this was not the case. In 2014, the military won three Mi-8 T-helicopters for 3 billion forints, and now we know that the Mi-17s will be repaired for 4 billion forints - we are talking about only four machines - and the Ministry of Interior managed to buy five MD-902 helicopters for 4 billion forints. If we add these together, plus the extension of the lease for air ambulances, since there is still no meaningful common solution, this has resulted in around HUF 13-15 billion in these ad hoc treatments in the last year and a half. From such an amount, obviously depending on what kind of financial engineering we are talking about, I think that we do not need to discuss it here - a national helicopter procurement tender could have been launched, which would solve this issue in the long term. We all know that if there is such a situation - I would specifically highlight the flood or other disaster situation, because fortunately, the civilian population will meet the military and the other helicopters at this time - even in cases where it is necessary, we cannot draw these technical tools out of the blue in two days. So you have to think ahead. It is clear that I would like to highlight the modernisation of individual equipment - as one of the most important tasks - in the field of land forces, but we know that there are countless military technology tools that are incredibly ageing and falling out of the system. So basic tasks can now be compromised by the state that exists. In 2014, the Ministry of Defence sold 46 real estates, of which net HUF 843 million was entered into the central budget, and unfortunately I cannot ask the Ministry of Defence now, I would ask the Secretary of State whether this amount had been transferred to the defence wallet and, let's say, what it had been used for. It's an open question, I don't know if you can answer it, or even in writing, I'm very glad you can explain that. So, to sum up, the 2015 accounts confirm that the Hungarian Defence Office is in very bad shape, there are insufficient financial opportunities to really talk about modernisation here in the long term, which, I think, is now essential. The military's duties are constantly increasing. They not only perform the basic tasks of the country, but also, of course, the obligations arising from international engagement have been very well met and the tasks have been expanded in the context of the crisis caused by mass immigration. So from now on, I think that additional resources and modernisation and uploading are essential in any way. I would like to take this opportunity to thank the Hungarian Defence Staff, both the soldiers and the defence workers, for their incredible dedication to do their job every day, and let us all be aware that the Hungarian Defence Office is only functioning today because they are so dedicated to their work. It is, of course, important to continue the development of salaries. I would point out here that the defense workers, when the civil servant payroll has not changed, have not received any salary improvements. The total gross amount of HUF 16,000 has been what they have received in recent years. This must be increased in any way and their wages and salaries must be increased. It is essential for the government to finally think about setting up an appropriate preferential pension system, of course in a way that is socially just, because without it, the military career cannot be complete. In fact, there is a need for complex and strategic thinking in terms of resources, because it is not enough to have an additional source, although we would be happy to see it, no matter how these resources are used in such a large system. So it is necessary to design this in the long term. This is typically not the area, by the way, in addition to many others, where, as governments rotate each other, it is possible to change strategy, everything. So I think we really need a complex thought. The 2015 accounts show great problems. I just hope that the government can resolve these things as soon as possible. Thank you very much.
u2016-10-14-24	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Speaking from the Jobbik Group, Mrs Loránt Hegedűs, the notary of the Parliament, will be Mrs Hegedűs. Here you go.
u2016-10-14-25	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, At first, I would like to react very briefly to what we have heard here. On the one hand, the Secretary of State would have tried to defend himself as to whether or not the public sector has just been waged and listed career models as an example. To be honest, just after the events of the last day or two, I would be a little more modest in terms of career models and wage development in the position of the government, because in many cases, what has happened now in relation to the wage arrangement of health workers, is that certain allowances and subsidies have been withdrawn at the same time as the introduction of a career model or wage arrangement, and so the workers have seen that, in practice, not only would they have more wages, but, in the case of even less, some of them have been paid. At the same time, the social career model, for example, is an old debt to the government. There is a sectoral allowance, but we know that the extra wage is only an uneven solution, since it will not be built into the lease without ever enriching the pension. Some kind of pre-impossible treatment, but it's actually very difficult to call it wage development. Secondly, what has been said here about employment is the extent to which there is a shortage of workers and how employment has improved or not. As an example, we could not find a day laborer in Hungary, and we could also hear from my fellow Member, Sándor Czomba, a kind of word magic, a trick with statistical data, to prove how much the number of seats in the competition sphere has increased in the whole of Hungary. I think that this is the point where we have to say that it is the responsibility of the government, I believe that it is its moral and ethical obligation to face reality, and, for example, in relation to this example, why there is no number of days in Hungary, where those day laborers even come from, to answer this question honestly, both for Hungarian society and for itself. It is clear that at present there is so little wages in Hungary, such as the number of days available in agriculture, or even a monthly wage, that it is more worth it, and not only for those who would otherwise live on agriculture, but also for people who are often graduates to go from Hungary to summer work only to neighbouring Austria, and I still think it is a facial toaster situation. [[12.50]] Because when we say that a teacher is the day laborer of the nation, we don't mean that literally, so we don't think that this man should live in the summer from picking tomatoes in Austria. So when we do tricks with statistical data, just to shine government policy, let us sometimes look inside ourselves and address such fundamental issues. I would like to begin by saying in principle that the adoption of the accounts is also an exemption from the responsibility of budgetary management, which the House, the majority of the Members of Parliament, can give to the government. The closing account itself should reflect a reliable and fair picture of changes in wealth, because closing accounts must show wealth, the composition of wealth, assets, resources, the financial situation and effectiveness to honourable Members. Our right to control can be exercised by us, Members, if this closing account, as the Fundamental Law states, takes place in a sufficiently, rationally detailed manner. In this connection, I have set you a few examples, along with showing how limited our situation is, especially the position of opposition representatives, by the government, that this kind of reasonable detail is missing from the presentation. It is therefore not found in the norm, nor in the tables, nor in the general or in the detailed explanations, so in what would be clearly available to Members. Let's start with the question of the Parliamentary Office. This is something that must not be bypassed, not even because we, Members, should first sweep our own office around our own house. So I think we should first exercise our right to control here. For 2015, he writes that the Parliament's Office spent about 4 billion instead of the 3 billion 300 million originally planned for the project, investment and renovation. In this connection, let me bring a current question to the House. Serious amounts are also included in the 2015 budget, but also in the 2016 budget and in the 2017 budget already voted on by this House. The Committee on Budgets has a special power to make a preliminary decision in this regard and will be included in the draft budget law later on in a way that the Committee on Budgets decides or does not decide. When I asked what investments and renovations meant, I was told to pay attention to the fact that the facade renovation of the MTESZ headquarters is set aside for HUF 2.4 billion next year. Compared to this, when I asked why exactly HUF 2.4 billion is needed per year for a façade renovation, what façade will be so expensive to achieve, Director General George Such said that this is his personal estimate. Mr. Secretary. Is it possible that the budget planning in Hungary today is based on the personal estimation of someone based on numbers of this magnitude? Then it soon turned out that this was not a facade renovation, but, I quote the table, which is subject to a complete demolition. Well, there's no doubt that the building we've completely broken down and then built a new one instead of it requires a new facade. So, in fact, complete demolition and construction can also be called façade renovation, but I think that this is a mockery of budget planning, and this type of response is not worthy of the rank of this House and the dignity of this House. But now I'm moving on, because unfortunately, time is passing. Allow me to make a comment on municipal subsidies. With regard to extraordinary budget support, which replaces self-hikit, we do not see a table, but it is common knowledge that they are highly carefully applied and evaluated over the year, on several occasions, and BM also publishes on its website exactly how much they have received. But in addition to that, what I do not understand is that certain municipalities also receive a certain degree of support, and what is strange is that it is not only shown here, in this set, so let's say, the IX. This appropriation is intended to cover commitments remaining to be settled from previous years. I think that this would be a milestone in transparency if we said that a task could be financed from a ministry, even if, let's say, self-hocking is a joint responsibility of the Minister of the Interior and the Ministry of National Economy. Despite this fact, the fact that the Ministry of National Development has such resources, the EMMI also has such resources, and so on, I think that this does not help transparency and, in a sense, raises rather strange questions. I find it extremely strange that, by the way, here, here, the IX. The chapter reserve, that loose HUF 26 billion, is not really involved, so it is not specifically discussed in the closing bill, as is the programme of modern cities. I do not know how much my fellow Members remember, it is suddenly unexpected at the end of 2015, when the budget was amended more than once, it was already presented to the House as a Commission proposal, so the programme of modern cities, with HUF 25 billion, was presented to the House after the ordinary hearing. By the way, it was in the prime minister's chapter at the time, but now it's all out of there, and it's been transferred to the local government chapter by HUF 1 billion. I don't really understand why, how changes of this magnitude happen. If we decide something at the end of 2015, they obviously did so on a well-founded basis - I asked anyway, and you said that there is a specific line here, which settlement, which county-righted city will receive, what programs, and so on. Nevertheless, virtually nothing of that money was spent, although that nothing would require a figure of 1 billion forints to figure out exactly what it went to. But it is also interesting that we have also decided on the 2016 budget law of 2017, which includes 50 and 100 billion forints on the one hand, but we also hear about press reports that we do not know how these will end. It's a bureaucracy reduction. It's amazing how many State Secretarys, Administrative Secretary, Deputy State Secretary, Head of Department, and so on, you're working only around the government, but you're always talking about cutting red tape in the public sector, and you're planning on firing tens of thousands of employees. At the same time, if I look at a long line of ministries, then we must see for each of them that they have grown in a shocking and inexplicable way - they do not even try to justify it, not even by chance - personal expenses. At the Prime Minister's Office, from 10 billion to 13 billion, and at the same time the expenditure in rem grew steeply every time. Even at EMMI, from 8 billion to 14 billion. A week ago, he closed down KEKKH from 3 billion to 3.5 billion. At NGM, Mr Secretary of State, personal spending has increased from 15 billion to 18 billion. Why would you do that? Not to mention that at NGM, even the real estate expenditure grew from 3 billion to 16.7 billion; I suppose this is due to the big government move, or I don't know... [[Péter Benő Banai's intervention.]] I would like to thank you if you would respond specifically to this, but other expenditure in rem has also increased from 32 million planned to 2.1 billion. From 90 billion to 115 billion at the NAV, and so on, so I would be able to list these points for an extremely long time. [[13.00]] At FM, the waste management tasks were set aside for 12 billion. We know that because of the e-tolls, the deposit fees and the extra charges due to the reduction of the rent, the municipality-owned companies would be able to compensate for their losses, but at the same time they did not spend this money, only HUF 8.8 billion. When national kukaholding was formed, it was explained by the fact that the funding of this sphere is very poor, and that is why this must be resolved. We do not understand why, then, we did not manage to spend the entire amount, which would otherwise be very justified. We've heard a few words about the Liget project here. In 2014, you spent $5 billion on this, and we can't see any of it if we go out to the Liget, nothing happened - but back in 2015, when you've already spent $10 billion on this! Secretary of State, one of the most important criteria for spending money is whether or not it is effective. The other day, you told me that you had gone to 5 billion preparations. We know that since then, all the plans that have been made in preparation have been put in the trash - thank God, and by the way, Viktor Orbán, who himself said that most of these plans are unsuitable. But what we have to say is that so far, it seems that the 15 billion that were meant for this thing were completely unnecessary. One more thing, because I have very little time: the gaming tax. The Secretary of State began by increasing the tax revenue for toys in Hungary, compared with 32 instead of 39 billion to be paid by Andy Vajna. This is a complete lack of control, because they force Andy Vajna to self-restraint practically, and practically the government [[The president's ringing the bell.]] capitulates to the greatness of Andy Vajna. Now, that's what's a shame. Thank you so much for listening. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik. Interview from the ranks of the MSZP: That's right!]]
u2016-10-14-26	Thank you very much, notary. It is now possible to make two-minute speeches. First of the LMP Group, I give the floor to Ms Erzsébet Schmuck, Head of the Group. Here you go.
u2016-10-14-27	Thank you very much. I would like to respond quickly to three questions, first to Minister of State Banai. Indeed, it seems that in practice you are engaged in neoliberal economic policy, we see that you are only serving multinational companies and capital. The downward wage competition in Hungary has been continuing for many years, and if we look at it, employees' rights have been severely impaired since 2010. If we look at the Labour Code, then what we can see from the fact that they've made people more fired, trade union rights have been reduced - I can't go on with this right now, these two minutes don't really fit. I would also like to respond to employment. According to institutional statistics, between 2010 and 2016, the number of people in the competition sector increased by only 67 thousand, with nearly 300,000 public workers, but what you mentioned, the 660,000, according to our experts, includes the number of employees who are not fully employed at 8 hours. There should be some common ground here. In 2010, there were 60,000 people working abroad, according to current statistics it is more than 100,000 - more than 100,000! - main. Here, perhaps, there should also be some sort of order in the data of the Statistical Office. The data is very often not public, you may see a different statistical number, so this should be sorted out somehow. And I would like to say to Mr Font - there will be a debate this afternoon - that we think that it would have been much better if those lands had remained state-owned, because the land is a strategic issue, and here, in the context of climate change and many other issues, they threaten domestic food supply. Thank you.
u2016-10-14-28	Thank you very much, Madam Group leader. A two-minute speech from the MSZP Group will be followed by Mr István Józsa. Here you go.
u2016-10-14-29	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, [[To Péter Benő Banai, who consulted with Erzsébet Schmuck:]] It is true that you are busy with a lovely lady's comment, but I would like to draw your attention to the fact that when you are dealing with the subjective issues of detachment or catch-up and competitiveness, I thought of a very morbid anecdota: two English explorers make a move on the savannah, and they realize that a lion is running after them, and one of them starts to take off his boots and put on his running shoes. And the other asks, can you imagine being faster than a lion? Forgive me, I don't have to be faster than a lion. [[Demercation in the ranks of opposition representatives.]] So it may not be that those who have fallen behind in economic competition will be torn apart by lions, but they will certainly suffer painful losses. So when we talk about the tragic consequences of the decline in our competitiveness, I also think about what has already been shown numerically that last year's 3.1 percent growth of the Hungarian economy is the lowest compared to the neighbouring countries in competition with us. I could say that your economic policy will revive the country's future, because investment is low, modernisation is low, and there is no need to spend money on education that would be necessary to be able to compete in this competition, which is largely about knowledge. He said the numbers - as a good chief accountant - about the 2015 performances, how much higher education, health and social expenditures have become. These are factually true, and it should be added that in the five years preceding that, the brutal amounts were reduced, so this is still very far from catching up. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] So, as you've been saying, breaking down, catching up, we think it's a relative break. Thank you very much.
u2016-10-14-30	Thank you, Congressman. A two-minute speech from the Jobbik Group will also be followed by Mr Dániel Z. Kárpát. Here you go, Congressman.
u2016-10-14-31	Mr President, Dear House, Once again, the issue of foreign exchange credit victims has been raised. I will tell you every time: the government lies when it talks about settlement, because instead of the exchange rate at the time of admission, it is essentially forinted at market prices and exchange rates. And, Mr. Secretary, let's be clear, it's a commendable achievement that 70 percent of the population's debt was in foreign currency, and now it's down to a level of less than 1 percent, but that was not the main goal. This is an additional, very positive economic impact. But the thing is, the main goal would have been to get these unjustly troubled people out of trouble, with your assistance, I would add, out of trouble. On the other hand, the reality shows that more than 140,000 people are unable to repay, are at risk of eviction, and that you have not provided them any measurable assistance, and that even the sums collected on the price barrier's holding accounts will fall on these people's necks at the same time as five years, and if you now weigh this system with this amount of unpaid, presumably price barriers, even more will become insolvent. So it's got an incredibly large mine inside it. In terms of population loss, let us not discuss the government's family policy measures, let us not debate the system of family tax incentives, but the fact is that the rate of eclipse does not want to slow down. I am not against you, I wish the government tools were effective, but I have to say, they are not, the rate of population loss is unfortunately the same as before, and do not expect any change if you bear 27 percent penalty tax on the articles needed to raise children, the Hungarian families! Secretary of State, your 27 percent European record-breaker VAT is indefensible, and it cannot bring up any reason in Parliament or elsewhere that justifies that brutal penalty tax from an economic approach. Delete at last, obviously not zero per cent, but on a sustainable, normal key, for basic foods as a whole and for child-rearing products, you should be on a scale of between 5% and zero per cent. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] Thank you for the opportunity. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2016-10-14-32	Thank you very much, Congressman. Imre Ritter, a German ethnic advocate, also applied for a two-minute speech. Here you go.
u2016-10-14-33	Thank you very much, Mr. President. In my speech on behalf of the Committee on Nationalities in Hungary, I tried to talk about comprehensive, general issues and processes defining the future of nationalities in Hungary. Allow me to share very quickly two recent experiences with you on the results of the 2015 Central Budget Act. In particular, the 2015 Central Budget Act was first set up to invest and renovate a series of national minority institutions maintained by national authorities by 441.2 million, which was doubled in 2016. This money was a significant part of the renovation of the German theatre in Szekszárd in Hungary for HUF 200 million, which was pushed by the German national government by 50 million, and the last Wednesday, two weeks ago, was the opening of the theatre after the renovation. [[13.10]] I suggest that if you go to Szekszárd, take a look at the main square and go inside; from the basement to the attic, a perfectly renovated theater began to function again, and the ownership of which was also taken over along the way, and the operating support of the theatre increased by 38 million. I trust we won't have a problem with him for the next 20 years. The second is: in Battony, the Romanian school, where we spent an afternoon after the sitting, the institution was renovated from 150 million to a level that I think is almost unprecedented in such a rural settlement. I suggest that everyone around Battonya go to the Romanian school and look at the results of the renovation. Thank you so much for listening.
u2016-10-14-34	Thank you very much, Mr Speaker. On behalf of the government, I am speaking to Secretary of State Peter Benő Banai. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2016-10-14-35	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, A few things have been said again to respond to. Not in chronological order, but first let me respond to one of the remarks made by Mrs Loránt Hegedűs. He said the statistics could be tricked. What I'd like to say is that this government doesn't trick with statistical data. [[Ildikó Bangóné Barbély: Yes, you can!]] We have seen an example of this. The 2015 accounts, the international figures, I think show that the processes are presented faithfully, in accordance with reality, in the documents of the closing accounts. As regards employment figures: I fully agree with what Mr Sándor Czomba said and how the number of people employed has evolved, I must not only confirm that the methodology of the HCSO is constant, but I must also say that this methodology is something that the statistical office of the European Union has reviewed and presents, according to European Union statistics, a change in the number of people employed. Here again, let me say the facts: the increase in employment that we saw in 2015 will continue in 2016. On the basis of the June-August-June data of the 2010-2016 period in my hands, which, I repeat, corresponds to the procedure followed by all Member States in accordance with the European Union methodology, the total number of employees increased by 628.6 thousand, i.e. 628 600. 436 200 people found work in this competitive sector. With regard to the expenditure of the Ministry of Defence, Congresswoman Márta Demeter mentioned that expenditure is increasing in proportion to GDP, not only nominal growth. But given that GDP is projected to grow substantially this year and in the coming years, this represents an additional source of around HUF 50 billion per year for the Ministry of Defence. This extra resource is also an opportunity for improvements, and we can say that the Hungarian economy has reached a state where, I repeat, thanks to its performance, it is possible to make additional expenditures so that the often mentioned balance indicators are also developing positively. I will give a detailed and concrete written reply to the representative woman about the proceeds of the sale of assets. The general rules state that the proceeds of the sale of assets are the centralised revenues of the State. This is achieved in every asset. And so to speak, regardless of that, the expenditure approved in the given year that the Parliament accepts can be fulfilled. Thus, regardless of whether or not the public assets are sold, they are stable, fixed and the expenditure of a defence nature increases in proportion to that GDP. Congresswoman Loránt Hegedűs asked several specific questions, even in her absence [[Z. Carpathian Daniel: We deliver!]] I'm responding to the suggestions. The use of the Liget project's resources is not only included in the main volume of closure accounts, but also in the detailed additional documents mentioned above. If this information is not sufficient, then, of course, in the case of further questions, as in the past, the government competent body will continue to provide a written reply in the future. I have to say - as Congresswoman, I think you know - that, when an investment is carried out, expenditure does not occur when the hoof is cut, but rather a plan has to be drawn up, a public procurement procedure has to be launched, which, of course, because it is public money, will be accounted for in detail in the closing accounting document. The same is true with regard to investments in the Office of Parliament: there are clear rules on public finances, each forint must be accounted for, this is what the closing report is about in 2015. As regards the change in personnel expenditure referred to in the Ministry of National Economy, I should point out that, at the same time as the changes in the responsibilities of the public education structure, vocational training centres and vocational training were assigned to the Ministry of National Economy. This, as appropriate, resulted in an increase in expenditure related to vocational training at NGM, without otherwise increasing normal administrative expenditure. So we're seeing a structural shift, and, as a matter of fact, these changes in tasks are also linked to the change in expenditure at the ministries. That's the main reason. The fact that the state intends to carry out economical farming, I think, is evident in the fact that, after 2010, it imposed a decision on a procurement stop, from which it is possible only to grant a permit with an individual exemption, or that it is evident that a decision has also been taken to transform and reduce the number of ministerial background institutions. I think it is important that, when assessing the administrative expenditure of the 2015 accounts or even further years, if we look at the figures, we clearly distinguish wage expenditure, where, for example, at the NAV, which is mentioned by the Member, in line with the improved collection efficiency of tax revenues, it is possible to pay extra. So we need to separate wage expenditure from other types of expenditure, where, I believe, we see a relatively economical, even international, economical type of farming, and I trust that this is included in these discharge documents. On the points raised by Mr István Józsa: I can fully agree with the statement that the decline in competitiveness has tragic results, and we all know that. If the Member looks at the so-called hard figures describing competitiveness that concern growth, employment, public finances, sovereign debt, current account balances, I think that the deterioration in competitiveness that Hungary has experienced in the previous decade has unfortunately had very serious consequences. I am asking, or suggesting, that when assessing competitiveness, we clearly separate the numbers which are objective, based on factual statistics, from those which are subjective. I repeat, there are subjective processes on which no doubt all governments, the current government, must work. But again, let's isolate it sharply from the objective, well-measurable numbers. What I see is that Hungary has made a very significant improvement in these objective, well-measurable figures. This is not only thought of by the government, not only by the State Audit Office, but also by international organisations, it is not by chance that we are out of the excessive deficit procedure; it is not by chance that the credit rating agencies with which we had serious disputes now judge the processes of the Hungarian economy much better than they did a year or two ago. As regards Mr Dániel Z. Kárpát's comments: I think that - I repeat - the government has done a great deal to solve the problems of foreign exchange lenders. Here it is not necessary to defend itself, but it must be said that the assistance that Mr President mentioned from the government side about the loss of foreign exchange loans was a characteristic of Hungarian government policy before 2010. [[13.20]] Let's look at the statistics on when the huge stock of foreign currency loans has accumulated. [[Dániel Z. Carpathian intervenes.]] And let's look at what the government did after 2010: National Asset Manager, exchange rate barrier, end-payment, forinting. I think these facts show that we were talking about a problem that we have managed to remedy its fundamental, key negative elements. Here, the most important item was the vulnerability that covered the effects of changes in the exchange rates of HUF and euro and the Swiss franc exchange rate, namely: the unpredictability that was linked to foreign currency credit has ceased in the case of foreign exchange lenders. And I add that at the same time not only did the population's foreign exchange debt decrease and its proportion decreased significantly from above the 70 per cent level to 1 per cent, but the Hungarian state's debt also changed in parallel, the foreign exchange debt ratio decreased, and this is also included in the 2015 accounts before this House. Thank you for your attention.
u2016-10-14-36	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. A proper speech now follows from the group of the MSZP, Mrs Ildikó Bangóné Borbély. Here you go, Congresswoman.
u2016-10-14-37	[[Péter Benõ Banai, turning around, talks to Dániel Z. Carpathian.]] Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, First of all, I would like to start with a small compliment: one of the State Secretarys who sits through the debate, at least here, and responds to each speech. It is true that you are not listening to me now, although I commend you - and that is all there is to praise you for the 2015 budget. I'd respond to one employment record. I don't know if the Secretary of State... will wait for the Secretary of State to listen, even though I praised him at the beginning. I do not know if the Secretary of State is aware of the fact that the OECD has just issued a data showing that there are 288 thousand young people in Hungary between the ages of 15 and 25 who are not in any system, are not receiving unemployment benefits, are not in an education system and are not working. I'd like to ask you what you can say to that, Mr. Secretary. Taking a look at the final accounts, we can say that what we said at the 2015 budget negotiations has been confirmed: 2015 will be the year of tax increases, the deepening of the social crisis and the shift from the knowledge-based social picture. He says a lot about the government's budget, that in the autumn of 2014, when the draft was submitted, the Hungarian Anti-Poor Network issued a manifesto with the title "We will starve to death!" I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. If we are talking about poverty and the Secretary of State said that the government is not tricky, the methodology of the KSH is constant, then it should be said here that it was autumn 2014 when the KSH did not publish poverty data in September. With quite a scandal, we managed to get to know these data with almost two months late, and then we found out what the reason for the delay was: they did not really want to reveal those data to the public. The other thing that happened in 2015 was that in February, a letter from the Ministry of Human Resources was sent to the press, banning the use of certain words to ministry staff: poor, poverty, extreme poverty, child poverty. The prohibition of concepts itself was the most important thing for the EMMI, and not to work towards changing these circumstances in some way. If the government does not trick with the data, and the methodology of the KSH is constant, tell me, Mr Secretary, how can it happen that there are no minimum living figures today, the KSH does not publish poverty data, and we are essentially hearing the news that the methodology for calculating the minimum living is going to be changed, one of which will be to calculate calories, how much daily calorie intake a person, a child, a woman, a man will have to consume. Mr. Secretary, I would just like to remind you that you may be doing calorie calculations, but it doesn't matter what quality food you bring into your body, because you can bring in the same amount of calories with white bread, carbohydrates, potatoes, which is unhealthy and can bring it in with healthy food, white meat, vegetables, fruit and dairy products. Everyone knows that obesity in Hungary is in many cases a sign of poverty, as it can bring very unhealthy nutrients into the body of the poor man. So let's not say such things, Mr. Secretary, that the methodology of the KSH is constant. Given the consolidated functional expenditure of public finances, it is clear that in 2015 the state spent less of GDP on social security and welfare services than in 2014, there is also a decrease in pensions, invalidity benefits, family allowances and social assistance. If we look at the distribution of public expenditure, we see that the government has spent less of the total expenditure on this area than in 2014. In unemployment benefits, nominally measured expenditure is reduced to HUF 40 billion. In 2015, the projected projected GDP growth was 3.1 percent, so the amount of money that could be spent increased, and we did not perceive this as the best in the social field, we can say that it was not there. It is also worth noting from the reception side that, in the process of simplifying bureaucracy and tax reductions, the revenue instead of the 500 million HUF planned revenues became more than HUF 8 billion, Mr. State Secretary, the public fees amount to HUF 136 billion instead of HUF 120 billion, which is also a significant overachievement. Revenues were reduced by several tax incentives, including family tax relief, in more than 243 billion forints. This includes the first couple's discount, which was introduced in 2015, and this year it turned out that very few young people are using it. Can you tell me something about this, Mr. Secretary, why the first married couple don't take advantage of the tax reduction? Maybe it's because they don't have a job. The National Fund for Family and Social Policy, which is in fact the collective name of several expenditure appropriations, was achieved by only 3.9 percent above the planned level, and required a budget of HUF 136 billion. We see that the family allowance was 4 billion less than planned, and that the child raising allowance was HUF 1 billion less. The former, the reduction in the family allowance, clearly indicates that the kind of babyboom that was announced after 2010 did not happen. One measure of the success of family policy is the number of children's births. However, for a very long time, politicians of the government and Fidesz-KDNP have used the concept of a family-friendly government, thanks to God, they've stopped, we haven't heard about it recently - it hasn't worked, Mr. Secretary of State. I'd like to give you some information about the birth date. When the crisis broke out in 2008, 99 149 children were born in Hungary, then around 2010 we barely exceeded 90,000, and then in 2011 there was a low point where the birth rate of children in Hungary had fallen to unprecedented depths, and 88 049 children were born. Then we can observe a minimal increase, I do not say that it is not good, because all the extra children were born in Hungary, and in 2015 91 690 children were born in Hungary. Looking at the current figures, the first eight to nine months, there was a fall of about 1.9 percent compared to last year, and if we count now a little bit, this means that if this trend remains in the remaining months of the year - and the person who watches the statistics knows that in the last few months there will be virtually fewer children, in August, June, July, when the number of children jumps, I did the math - if there will be a 2 percent decrease, then the number of children will fall below 90,000 again. [[13.30]] Secretary of State, the Fidesz government's family policy doesn't work. And we have said a million times that energy should be spent on bringing home our young people who have left abroad, because a significant proportion of women of childbearing age are abroad, and if these women or married couples are to have children abroad, they will no longer return to Hungary. The government should pay close attention to this. It seems to us that for several years now, energy has not been spent on this. I have a few more questions for the Secretary of State. If you look at how the appropriation was achieved, how it could be achieved in the given year: I already said that the family allowance was 98,8 percent, the child-rearing allowance was 92,1 percent. It's all about birth. But there is one item that I would like to ask the Secretary of State, and it has to do with employment itself. Reimbursement of children's birth leave and reimbursement of liberty were achieved at 146 percent. Mr. Secretary, we have a very big problem. It is right to involve fathers in raising the child. As I understand it, two weeks' leave is now due to newborn children, but for some reason, fathers cannot or do not want to enforce it. Is it not that employers do not like to give these two weeks' leave? I think that if someone talks about family-friendly governance, employers should be encouraged to use it in some way, because that number would not come out at the end of the year. 85.9 percent of the financial and natural child protection aid was achieved in the 2015 budget. The details of the National Family and Social Policy Fund show that HUF 1.3 billion of revenue was generated, mainly due to the repayment of unauthorized subsidies. This 1.3 billion forint is a very brutal number because it was used illegally. I would like to ask Mr Secretary of State if he has anything to say about this, about the unauthorized benefits that had to be repaid and how many people. If you cannot now, I will thank you very much if you will respond in writing to this question. It's a baby's meal. During the children's meal, it is mentioned that the system was extended in September 2015, because of the extension of free meals in kindergarten and kindergarten, the budget increased by HUF 3.1 billion, to HUF 61.3 billion. It is noted that the institutional operating income generated an additional HUF 36,9 billion in revenue, so nearly 79.4 percent of the total operating expenditure of HUF 123.4 billion was covered by institutional own revenues and state subsidies. So in English, they took 37 billion more from the parents than they had planned. That's not beside the point, Mr. Secretary, compared to the fact that the state's resources were raised by 3 billion. Here again, they discuss the summer social meals. For several years we have indicated that the HUF 2.6 billion, which was planned for summer social meals at the time of the change of government, must be increased. Then they heard the criticisms we made at the time from the opposition side. But I have to say, Mr. State Secretary, that despite the fact that social summer meals became mandatory from 2016, we see that no more children receive food support during breaks, because they do not provide sufficient resources for municipalities, but only a certain part of them, and that municipalities that cannot put aside so to speak, self-power, which should not be, will not be able to provide this every year. Even now, about 142,000 children received it. In the spring I asked a written question, 142 thousand children were given a summer social meal during spring break, and until they had a mandatory job for the municipality, 142 thousand children were given. Meanwhile, according to the survey of the Ministry of Economy and EMMI, 203 thousand children should receive summer social meals in Hungary today. If you could tell me something about that, Mr. Secretary, I'd appreciate it. I'd still like to talk about the housing subsidies. 2015 was the year when the number of housing constructions was unprecedented. In 2010, 20 823 apartments were built in Hungary - about 40,000 new apartments should be built every year - and then in 2015 7612. 7612, Secretary of State. In their communication, they constantly suggested how much money is allocated to housing and family support systems, that they encourage young people, and that somehow no breakthrough could be achieved in housing building, and now we see that the introduction of CSOK will not solve this problem either. Statistical data show that it is not used for new apartments either today, but rather for the purchase of used apartments, moreover, land prices have increased drastically, housing prices have increased drastically and that only a wealthy circle can use this support system. This has also been amended several times, and we cannot talk about success. The Orbán government [[The president's ringing the bell.]] Its budget in 2015 maintained the dilettant and unpredictable economic policy, resulting in the withdrawal of HUF 1000 billion from health, education, pension and social care. Secretary of State, I'll be waiting for your answer to my questions. Thank you, Mr. President. Thank you very much.
u2016-10-14-38	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. A two-minute speech from the MSZP Group will be followed by Mr István Józsa. Here you go, Congressman.
u2016-10-14-39	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I am pleased that we agree on the importance of competitiveness. I would like to draw the Secretary of State's attention, although, as I said, I did not want to devalue him for being here with the thoroughness of a good chief accountant, but there is, however, an aspect of government work that is certainly above you, but is negative, which is manifested in the competitiveness study. I agree that you have an impact on these budgetary indicators, but we have also explained the structural contradictions that are affecting competitiveness. However, what you are trying to devalue - subjective indicators - has an impact on government work because such subjective indicators are that they are predictable. The government's work is unpredictable in terms of special taxes. Uncertainty, who wins tenders, cannot expect to compete in a free, clean competition because there is a harshly protectionist economic approach. Your chief economist, now rector of Corvinus University, even explained that what journalists call corruption is the essence of Fidesz's economic policy. [[Interviews from the benches of the MSZP: That's right!]] In particular, it would create a national bourgeoisie, but this has the consequence that the players in the competitive market will devalue the country. And we may have only fallen six places, but the trend is that Hungary falls backwards and does not improve, and this is shown in the absence of investment. So the remaining investments that have not been made during this period are already a fixed damage, so you are strengthening the break-off. Thank you.
u2016-10-14-40	Thank you very much, Congressman. Anita Heringes, from the MSZP Group, will be followed by a proper speech. Here you go, Congresswoman, you have the floor.
u2016-10-14-41	Thank you very much for the floor. I've had a lot of thoughts after the speeches I've heard so far. I think, to this day, it is a disturbing reference to the rescue of foreign exchange legitimists, because they do not feel, to this day, the way the government communicates it. To this day, those affected feel that they have been left on the edge of the ditch, their problem has not been solved, they are equally indebted to this day, and they also live day by day. If we ask the mayor of a small settlement today about how people live in his settlement, then he tells us that while a few years ago he lasted until the 20th of a month's salary, today we are saying that after the 10th of the year, he is no longer out of wages, nor a penny of the wages he received from the public works program. But after the 10th, there's still 20 days when these people need to make a living. This is what the government does not see and refuses to notice when they say that the Hungarian economy is performing better. It can't do better if people don't feel it, and there's a big difference between real value and nominal value, that people's feelings are different. Somehow, there's a lot less product in the basket for the same money. [[13.40]] It is important to note that in 2015 Hungary received an EU resource equivalent to 6 per cent of GDP. This is the result of favourable economic data. However, even though this glaze shines so beautifully, experts say that the economic structure is unstable. In vain, Hungary's financial macro-financial balance has been balanced if the competitiveness of the Hungarian economy as a whole is at a historic low point, as my fellow Members have already said. According to the latest analysis of the World Economic Forum, Hungary has made six places worse and has moved back to 69th place on the list. Of the 28 Member States of the European Union, only Greece, Cyprus and Croatia are behind us. I don't think we can be proud of that. While the Eastern European region seems to have recovered from the shock caused by the financial crisis, it has turned itself to the pre-2009 level, the quality of our country's entrepreneurial environment has further deteriorated. According to the survey, the negative trend was caused by the expansion of the unorthodox economic policy in 2011, and, unfortunately, their situation is unbroken. Let's see why an entrepreneur would invest in Hungary today when he doesn't know what new taxes will be imposed or what his tax policy will be today for Hungary, what he can expect. If he invests, will it pay him back if he can hire new people? But what should you hire new people for when you see that if we take out EU money, then unfortunately, this country is not making much progress? If you see that you can't win a bigger investment than friends, you can't win a tender, what are you trying to develop, hire people, buy assets, expand your site? The feeling and sensitivity that we have in Hungary today is tragic. It is tragic because we have really come to the point that corruption is what best expresses Hungary's economic policy today. We live in the country of friends, and of course many people say that every saint's hand is drawn toward him, but the problem is that they are not saints here, but hypocrites, and I think that unfortunately this account is also the closing of hypocrisy, because they couldn't work with realistic numbers, compared to planning, reality is light years away. After we have already adopted the 2017 budget, the government is likely to have a fortune-sphere, as it already sees what will happen, what trends we can expect and what numbers they can work with for 2017. And then let's look at the figures: 4.4 million employees who work in Hungary today, 338 thousand of whom are commuters and the public workers, whom you do not care so much about at the moment, if you look at the numbers. What I would very much like to draw your attention to is that between 85 and 90 percent of the public workers can never leave the primary labour market. Maybe that's what we should be dealing with. Perhaps we should focus on providing these people with a future and an opportunity in the coming period. It is very difficult to negotiate a closing report with opposition representatives expressing their views, Mr Secretary of State standing alone here trying to answer our questions, but somehow individual Members, the Fidesz individual Members, do not have an opinion on the issue of their own district. However, I think that this is when we should look our own voters in the eye and tell them, with a mirror to their own government, what are the failed economic policy steps that people feel every day. We are now at the point that there is more of a minister, a secretary of state, a commissioner of government than a Member of Parliament. This is not a picture of cutting red tape. Today we are talking about the fact that this system is much more expensive and costing much more than it has ever been in this country. In real terms, we can count on a reduction of 8.3 percent in welfare expenditure. Of course, in nominal terms, you can say that this is not the case, Mr. Secretary, but in real terms, 8.3 percent can easily stand up. Businesses can't invest because they don't have anything. When we get to the point where we give Andy Vajna 3.96 billion forints from the reserve to the Hungarian National Film Fund, I don't know:, they didn't discuss with their friend in advance that he needed 4 billion forints, and that's why they didn't put it in the budget? Because from the reserve they rarely give friends 4 billion forints on the Hungarian Film Fund. But, of course, Andy Vajna will probably have that, or, as your fellow State Secretary said, there will be. The MSZP does not support the adoption of the bill because the government considers it its first priority, while the transparency of our budget has received one of the worst assessments of the EU and the OECD. Economic growth is due to EU funds, but what we do not know is that if Brussels, which you cursed on posters and everywhere, did not send these funds, what would happen to Hungary. We'd probably be in an even more tragic situation today. The government will shape and change the agreed items set out in advance in the budget, in line with its mischievous mood as a gentleman. This makes the entire state budget system uncertain and unpredictable. The average duration of job search has not improved, and it is even 18.4 months today. Nearly half of the registered unemployed can't find a job in a year, and the average time spent looking for work is more than a year and a half in the period when there is a significant shortage of labour in Hungary. This suggests that those who are unable to reach the employer because of family or regional or traffic problems, or who have low education, are unable to find employment. This would be the enormous task of the government: to provide catching-up training, real work experience, travel and housing opportunities, which will substantially help to improve the labour market position of the social groups described above. Dear Secretary of State, This would be the real task, as I have already said to Mr Péter Cseresnyés State Secretary, that if a young person wants to find a job or work for himself today, and he has to come up to Budapest and live here, then the minimum costs are HUF 205 thousand net. Twenty-five thousand net today, a young person starting a career sees only in his dreams as a salary. If you look at Zala county data, you could make a living there with 138 thousand nets without moving away from your parents, and then where the family is founded, where the childbearing is, and where is the fact that you live a normal life in Hungary, because only for food, for clothing and otherwise for public transport, for rent, for rent. Unfortunately, these amounts are not enough for a normal life today, and in vain 600,000 people have left Hungary and are unfortunately trying to find a job abroad, find a job and provide a life that their parents and grandparents have dreamed of. Only when the change of regime took place, I think that our parents and grandparents didn't imagine such a future for today's youth, but thought that it would be easier for them, that they would somehow have a better life, and so they did everything. Compared to this, grandmothers today feel that they need to help both their children and their grandchildren to move from one to the other, because today's salaries in Hungary, let's say, cannot be lived. In turn, active support for employment and training aid has decreased by HUF 1.6 billion. The Pension Insurance Fund was eventually transferred 309 million forints instead of the 400 million forints originally planned. In the course of the reform of the training system, revenues and HUF 9 billion were initially booked. This amount was transferred from the training and fund section of the National Employment Fund to vocational training centres. When NGM took over these vocational training schools from KLIK, it provided such an amount as a firefighter to cover the irresistible costs of things that had already been cancelled. [[13.50]] Another system collapsed in the KLIK system that you created badly, and then, when this problem had to be solved, it was necessary to provide a rapid increase in the amount of fire, as we were almost there that the lights were turned off and the water was closed in these institutions. There are still significant differences in skills in the number of unemployed in employment opportunities in the territorial and working age population. The negative labour market trends resulting from the economic crisis and declining employment focus on the potential of active employment policy instruments. The government decision issued in June 2016 also concerns the Türr István Training and Research Institute. This institution was abolished by the government by incorporation into the Ministry of Human Resources. Over the last few years, this network has been responsible for training those involved in public employment, which has not been able to perform well in many ways in recent years. The professional and performance standards of organised training have also been significantly lower than those of sufficient quality. It seems that training organised and carried out here has not been able to help the labour market situation of the public workers, whereas some of them have made a very good living. I have also said that between 85 and 90 percent of the public workers are unable to enter the primary labour market. Several small-town mayors have told me that the problem is that if they send a public-service worker to training, who receives the kitchen support training, then gets into school, cook the local kindergarten and help the kitchen staff, and it works, they can employ three months, because that's all you give him, and then after three months, even if he's done his job very well and he does his job and he really does his job the way he's supposed to be fired. So, of course, you can count these public employees several times in your statistics for the number of people employed in one year, but that doesn't solve your life. And if, let's just say, it happens that he would have worked there, then shouldn't there be a support system for him to stay there, work on, and not have to replace him with another kitchen helper trained in three months, who will be fired the same way in three months? The biggest problem in these settlements is transport, because they cannot go to larger settlements territorially, because they do not have enough money to exceed the first month, they do not have enough money to finance the first month's rent, deposit and travel expenses in advance. Well, that's the thing I really need your help with. But as we can see, you have probably seen that this training system has been badly developed, because the Türr István system has been abolished and the State Secretary who has been responsible for this has also been replaced. There's a lot of things they need to think about next time. I'm sorry that former State Secretary Czomba has left. He said we'd have a good debate on these issues, but if he's not in the room, it's hard to argue in my opinion. Thank you very much.
u2016-10-14-42	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. A proper speech from the MSZP group will be followed by Mr Lajos Korózs. Here you go, Congressman.
u2016-10-14-43	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, I would like to talk about four or five things, in general, the implementation of the social sector last year, some elements of family support, aid and the retirement segment of social security. On the main lines, we can clearly see that since its regency in 2010, the state, the government, has spent significantly more money on its own operation than on social and welfare functions. If you look at it in real terms, the state has been able to account for about 20.5 percent increase in itself since 2010 and 8.3 percent less in welfare and social functions. There's an awful lot of space between this one. In the case of social security and welfare services, if you look at it within social and welfare functions, the difference is even higher, because 19.7 percent minus can be booked. Dear House, Dear fellow Members, We must definitely talk about the element of aid in terms of financial and in-kind benefits, because if we look at child protection benefits in cash and in-kind benefits on this item, the appropriation spent 14 per cent underachieved, nearly HUF 800 million less on the support of the poorest children than planned. And I have to mention that in the healthcare segment of social security, public health services received HUF 1.3 billion less than what was planned. By the way, they haven't increased the amount of medicine in years. I would like to emphasise that this is a question of aid for public health. I have to mention the conversion of municipal aid last year. This House is aware of the amendment of the social law, which, as of 1 March last year, abolished more benefits in Hungary, abolished housing support, debt management services, equity public health care, equity care and regular social assistance. Because of the way the entire relief system has been redesigned, as I mentioned, a lot of care has ceased. They said that the municipal authorities would receive some HUF 30 billion in support of this task. There are, of course, segments that have been transferred to district organisations and district offices. There is a need to mention the issue of local government aid. The State aid in question was HUF 4.7 billion less than planned; this item is also under the heading supplementing cash social benefits. The reason for this is that HUF 4.3 billion has been taken from this line, 1 billion has been transferred to the development of children's meals, which has practically doubled, HUF 400 million has been allocated to support family and children's welfare centers, and 3 billion has been allocated to the other tasks of the municipalities. Apart from that, HUF 300 million was left behind from the modified allocation of aid money. In the social tasks section of the municipal authorities, as I mentioned earlier, some HUF 30 billion was set up, and this HUF 30 billion was practically spent, so it seems to be a 100% achievement. This was given to the municipalities for their municipal support, but it is also important to note that they could devote the callable framework to any task of a social nature. I would like to continue to address the pension matters of social security funds for a few sentences. On social security funds, the explanatory statement states, inter alia, that, in the case of expenditure, the statutory appropriations for retirement benefits and invalidity rehabilitation benefits have been lower, but that, at the same time, the costs associated with drug subsidies and preventive medical benefits have become higher. Let's look at the issue of pension provision. In 2015, the pension increase was 1.8 percent, with an annual increase of HUF 51.3 billion. According to the explanatory statement, this increase resulted in a 1.4 percent increase in the purchasing power of pensions. In addition, it is added that, as a result of this, as well as the structural transformation of benefits, the increase in the weight of the higher amount of old-age pensions, the average benefits paid per capita and supplementary benefits increased by 3 percent in total. It is worth pointing out that the government recognises that more and more people have high pensions, which is partly explained by the fact that the government abolished the contribution ceiling, which leads to high pensions for those affected. I would like to note here, my dear friends, that I have asked for written answers several times to the wallet concerned, and here I have mentioned it several times within the walls of Parliament. I consider it one of the biggest mistakes affecting the pension system, the abolition of the ceiling. The result, or the result, is that there are huge differences within the pension system. Dear Friends! I would like to remind you, and for the record, once again, that there has not been an increase in the minimum rate of old-age pensions in seven years. In the last year, the Socialist Group twice referred Parliament's proposal for a parliamentary resolution that the government should develop the technique of raising the minimum retirement pension in part, but they often refer to the fact that a large number of social benefits will be established in order to do so, and this would upset the budget. [[14.00]] We have already proposed decoupling the minimum rate of old-age pension from the level of social benefits. Not that benefits, especially cash benefits, do not require a raise or an automatic, an index, since most forms of care have not been increased by a naughty penny in seven years. They said in the explanatory statement in the Parliamentary Commission debate that it concerns so few people with regard to their numericality that it is not worth dealing with. [[Dr. István Hiller, vice-president of the Parliament, takes the chair.]] Dear Friends! I would just like to note that today, in Hungary, I am talking about an old-age pension of less than HUF 50,000, I stress that I am talking about an old-age pension, with more than 73,000 people. And there are 364 thousand people whose pension benefits are less than 50,000 forints. I think that dissonance is terrible, very striking, when it came out from the ministerial notice on the written question that there are now millions of pensions in Hungary. I would like to emphasise that there are millions of pensions, millions of HUF monthly pensions. Think about the 0.9 percent pension increase next year. One person with annuity receives 150-160 forints a month as a raise, I say 140-150 forints, for example, a person on a spousal allowance, and on the other side a monthly pension increase of 40-50 thousand forints. There are millions of pensions, not only for this, but this is mainly due to the abolition of the contribution ceiling. I won't argue if someone who's in retirement doesn't ask for retirement and paid for a long time - just know that math doesn't come out! He can't earn enough service time, and he can't pay enough extra contributions after the abolition of the contribution ceiling, so that someone has to pay a million-dollar pension, and he has to pay millions of forints' pensions! This is unacceptable! It is also interesting that the revenue from the Pension Insurance Fund was HUF 74.8 billion instead of HUF 5.8 billion. There's a big difference. However, between HUF 74.8 billion and HUF 5.8 billion, I think that if we talk about planning, whether it be budget planning or statical planning, the engineer who makes such a mistake will be fired from his job. This was because the Finance Act stipulated that the Minister responsible for social and pension policy could determine a payment obligation on the basis of the preliminary figures of the budget in January-November, in agreement with the Minister for Public Finance. This amount is roughly the same as public media funding. In addition, the government spent approximately HUF 20 billion less on pensions, old-age pensions, widow's pensions and orphanage than it planned. The reasons for this are also set out in the explanatory memorandum. It is claimed that the loss of appropriations was mainly due to the continuing decline in the number of old-age pensions converted from an invalidity pension above the age limit and in the number of main family benefits, the absence of new findings and the continuing decline in the level of the number of old-age pensions spent, and the low increase in the number of old-age pensions spent. It is fortunate that at least the first item in the explanatory statement is recognised that there was a right to an increase in the age limit, and the fact that the retirement age is rising means that the age limit is extended every six months, and consequently, if tens of thousands of people could have retired under the old rules, they would not be able to leave under the new rules. Consequently, for six months there is no need to pay many billion forints from the social security pension fund, which is no longer available, to pensioners. Please, there is also a problem with the current functioning of the pension system, but the root of this problem is not that the retirement age is rising to 65 years, but that is the problem, and I must also note here, because the low number of people, the low rate of the number of old-age pensions that have been spent, has affected this reduction, and that a lot of people cannot retire before age after a high period of service. Because in a rapid manner, in 2012, without any transition, all early retirements were abolished by the Orbán government. The early retirement pension has been abolished, the reduced early retirement pension has been abolished, the service pension has been abolished in another section. In addition, early retirement, early retirement, mining pensions have been abolished, and artistic pensions have been abolished. Please, hundreds of thousands of people are now in a position to lose their existence over the age of 60, while they have 40 to 42 to 44 years of working time, yet they cannot retire because of the inflexibility of the age limit. Consequently, it is possible to boast that there is a savings in the pension fund, but it is just the people who die. Dear House, Dear Friends! I see my time is up. I need to confirm one more thing. I'm shocked at the pace at which the money is being withdrawn in the event of disability benefits. Instead of the planned HUF 336 billion, only HUF 318 billion was spent on the provision of people with disabilities, otherwise the planned appropriations were down by 9 billion compared to 2014 and 14 billion compared to 13 billion. Finally, I have two things to say. There are hundreds of thousands of people here without any care. I mentioned the question of aid at the beginning of my speech. Well, that's a pretty crappy thing to say about us giving you a job and not aiding you. You know, you have to do the two together, because some people, when they're crucified, can't get a job, not even community service. Consequently, I think that Article XXI should be amended accordingly. In a civilised Europe of the century, there must be so much solidarity in one society that we also care for people who cannot work on either the open labour market or on the protected labour market. Today, the number of active age people who have been released from all kinds of care is in the order of 300,000. And I'm just saying, Mr. Secretary of State, this is not the field of professionalism. Hundreds of thousands of people today don't have valid social security. Hundreds of thousands of people are forced to go to a doctor's office or hospital, enter their Taj number, because, although they do have a Taj number, the computer only shows a red one, because this poor man doesn't have a paid contribution and therefore doesn't have a valid social security. It is indisputable that according to Hungarian law, when it comes to saving lives, these people must be taken care of. But today, I stress, there are hundreds of thousands of people who don't have social security. To conclude, a sentence. Believe me, Secretary of State, from sociological methodology and statistical methodology, I am better than some government members. Don't operate with people who have split the number of people living in child poverty overnight because they've halved the number of children with multiple disadvantages, because that's nothing but a cheap scam! Thank you very much.
u2016-10-14-44	Thank you very much. Welcome. We will continue our work with a pre-arranged speech. Congressman Zoltán Gógös, MSZP. Here.
u2016-10-14-45	Thank you, Mr President, for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, This debate has turned out to be quite interesting, because the Secretary of State has been left here alone. There is not much reaction on the part of the Fidesz fellow Members, although they may also respond to what I am saying now at the next item on the agenda, in the agricultural law, i mean, the colleagues, there will be some here, I have seen. I'd basically like to focus on what I might be a little good at after 40 years, but I don't see 2015 so rosy. But not just me, but the profession, as Mr. Secretary of State has said here for a reaction to agriculture. I'd like to start with three numbers, which is pretty much the whole thing. The gross production value in agriculture decreased by 5.7 percent, the investment rate decreased by 30 percent, and the President of the SAO also pointed out this specifically, and the balance sheet result also decreased by 30 percent. Obviously, it's not going to be a record year anymore. I know, Mr. Secretary, if you answer, you'll say that there was a very high base of 14 and that obviously made it a worse year. [[14.10]] If that were the only thing, then obviously this wave is in our system, because, thank God, the weather is not yet under the control of Viktor Orbán, and that is why sometimes it can surprise us, because otherwise there is no such great surprise for us, because the course is very one-way, but let me draw your attention to one or two things. 2015 was the first year in which, due to their brilliant economic policy, very large amounts of aid were withdrawn from companies which, by the way, represent the volume of agricultural production. This was the huge decision that the largest occupational sector could not have received the total area aid, and this caused a loss of around 100 billion, and that is precisely the sectors that have otherwise been the most difficult in the European trend. I will not go any further than in the case of dairy cows, where there is about 90 percent of the stock in the circle that the Fidesz government has suffered from withdrawal, and I do not need to, and I think there is much to explain, that it does not take a lot of people to grow cereals, that it requires a great deal of tractor and a great deal of work, but that it is precisely for the livestock service that you have deliberately punished. I understand, I'm sure there will be an answer to the huge amounts of money that have been given as a subsidy, I would add: compared to the withdrawal of 100 billion, about 25-30 billion have been included in this sector, most of which have been EU money, and it has not arrived in time. I would definitely change that, because it seems that this road does not lead to anything, and the other is a huge problem, and it is precisely in investment that it is not always the liquidity problem that is causing the investment to fall, but it has been mentioned here, and one of my colleagues has already indicated that when there is an uncertain economic environment and there is no proper vision, even those who could. [[Dr. Lajos Szűcs in the notary seat will be replaced by Attila Gelencsér.]] Everyone knew precisely that there would be no machinery investments in the next EU aid cycle, at least supported machinery investments, with the exception of some specific cases, apart from small development issues related to gardening and livestock farming, but there would be no direct machinery investment, but the volume of machinery investment decreased. It could even be said that it is good, good, well, now it was thought that this year, when the crop is relatively smaller, they do not do this, but that is not the problem; the problem is that when it does not reach the level of depreciation, because from then on there is a clear reduction that there is also a decrease in investment in that sector, and it is a volume that, let me say again, there is no increased re-production, there is no normal re-production. I'll tell you why. The reason is that a land law was adopted in this House in 2013 which makes long-term planning virtually impossible. By cataloguing businesses, regardless of the economic environment they are in, what they are dealing with, what places of production they have, they have said a magical word, that if they are a keeper, they can't have an area over 1,300 hectares. The majority of the production of Hungarian agriculture, about 60 percent, is provided by companies that have a larger area than the one they used to bite together, but because the profile they do for a relatively wide profile, which, by the way, provides a livelihood for a large number of people, is about this large area. Obviously, if, say, the Farkas Sanyi came in, we could talk about, say, a thousand-dollar dairy farm, which means about 2,000 animals, what amount of land is needed to provide only its own supply. Because it's a certain number, it's 40-50 kg/day for cows to feed - but if you'll allow me, I wouldn't get involved in this, but if someone wants to argue, we'll be happy to continue - and if they don't have cover for that, then I'm sure they'll stop something. When a bank gets there that I am financing the investment, and unfortunately, it hit the sector even in the sense that some of the proposals won were not implemented, because simply the banks said that they would not allow the remaining tenancy for 4-5 years, they would not want to finance the investment itself or any other own power, the return of which is planned for a minimum of 20 years, or at least 20 years. This is a huge mistake! So I think that we cannot go on in agriculture with the kind of view that we will then include a number in our brain and that we want to achieve it at all costs, even with violence that is already difficult to handle. Of course, immediately there will be a judge in Gyev, because we are making exceptions, because the larger companies have become persecuted, so to speak, but the government has only seen that 400 jobs can be held when it restores everything and takes back the land; I would like to indicate that it has taken back the land. It would be interesting, and then, obviously, next week, we will ask the Minister how he stands to say that when he was a socialist management, socialist management stole the state-owned companies; now it is fidesz. So he's saying that now it's gonna be stolen? By the way, I would like to point out that it has remained exactly the same capacity for decades, and for 200 years now, what it was, but I did not like it. The only reason I'm telling you this is because when we talk about a drop in investment, you know, Mr. Secretary, these companies could actually invest, because they have to invest where the degree of depreciation is so high that it's no longer worth renovating. With a 60-year-old MTZ tractor, you can still work on it, because nothing happens, you can change everything in it little by little, it doesn't cost that much, it doesn't even reach the Matusalemian age that works for that long, but it works basically. But when a livestock farm, whether a pig or poultry or a cattle farm, rots, you can think about whether I'm welding something that I can't anymore, or if I'm going to invest. When someone sees that he has no long-term guarantee because of the government's idiotic economic policy that he will be able to live even when that colony is still operational, he will certainly think about it, but again, the biggest limit is simply that the banks do not take very much note of the fact that if someone is doing a wrong land policy and does not take into account how rural employment is expanding, but takes into account the fact that I will say a number, and it doesn't matter that even if you are working on quicksands, it is 1300 hectares, and if you work on 40 golden crowns of peaceful land or on Fejér County lands, it is also 1300 hectares. So these are the problems, obviously not the professional making these decisions, but the big boss said that this verdikt then - it may be for him, because Lőrinc Mészáros has already bought him more than 1300 hectares, but let's not get involved in this now - the track is very, very one-way from now on, and it doesn't work well. The second is that the sector is hit hard by the state of current producer prices. Although there was growth in pigs, there are also many misunderstandings, and I also think that this should be said and said. There are many opinions in the media now that tax reductions have been completely pointless because they have been absorbed by trade. This is not the case, my dear friends, because it is because when the VAT reduction happened, for example, in pig meat - which we have welcomed and even demanded, and now we demand further for fruit and vegetables and UHT milk, Mr. Secretary, because there will be no reduction in exactly what we consume the most, and what is the biggest problem, by the way - we have to say that when this VAT reduction came in, the producer price of the pig was 280 forints, which is extremely low. This led to the fact that, let alone six million pigs, there are now three million, so you have to see this. It is currently around 440-450, so in Hungarian: this increase has to be paid somewhere, and then we have to start from it, and that is what I say to our dear complaining friends in the capital, who also regularly write to me, that now it is 1200 forints again, that I have bad news: otherwise it would be 1500. So, if we did not have the VAT reduction, it would unfortunately have been much more expensive, but this also suggests that Hungarian pricing is very, very cyclical and very, very fluctuating, precisely because we are not able to produce volumes, so we are not decisive in the market, so when we fall into dumping goods, such as Polish apples now, Hungarian producers are immediately put in a vulnerable position, because neither their organisation nor their background support nor their market support are like those of the neighbouring countries, not to mention taxation, because the agricultural sector in Poland is known to be almost zero. What must be said is that in 2015 a new programme was already planned, i.e. the 2014-2020 programme. I have bad news: not only did there not become a payment, but there were only seven applications, and none of them were evaluated, and now there will be a first payment in the form of an AKG and an eco-management advance - I suppose it will be, Mr. Secretary, with the 15th, because here is the 15th, and I very much hope that the industry will receive the advance; it is very quiet now, but when Minister Fazekas comes to the next debate, I will ask him, because by then he was very fond of pressing the buttons. Today is the 13th. That means we have to start paying the advance on Monday, but they're quiet about it, like the one in the grass. [[14.20]] I hope it's not because you're not keeping me anywhere and you didn't stop this MVH thing, which we know is that it's not a lucky situation to reorganize a system of institutions that could endanger payments. But I said this only because, once again, in 2015, not only was there a payment - I mean from that programme - but there was no criticism, so there was no substantive consideration. 150 times, 150 times, I'll say it again, 150 times! - and there's still no payoff. So now it will be the end of 2016 slowly, but one penny out of the 2014-20 programme has not been paid. By the way, the sector produced a relatively bad year in 2015 despite the fact that there was still 290 billion payments from the previous programme. Which, by the way, is the other great beauty of this closing score, right, with a huge showcase and a great election promise was the undivided common and share measurement, everyone was fooled, everyone was logged in. I would like to say that this year was so successful that it was planned for 3 billion, of which 540 million forints were paid, so in Hungarian, it is exactly the same as in previous years, which you have constantly criticized, and this is also at the expense of the 2014 remnant, which was 4.7 billion. So they didn't spend anything on this in 2014. It was designed, for some reason, this program didn't seem to work. Then there's one more thing I always talk about that I can't do right now. At the time, Sándor Fazekas and Mihály Varga were born with the signature of a - more precisely, no: Viktor Orbán's decision, they were the only ones responsible - a government decision that the subsidy line should reach HUF 83 billion in 2015; this is the national subsidy line. Once again, this was achieved at 77 billion, so the resolution signed by the Prime Minister in Hungarian is not taken seriously. I must mention in this debate that, while there is a condition that I have said that there really is no vision, there is no predictable economic policy, there is a 50-year strategy for the food economy, which is a 60-page material, which is not in itself a strong, let's say, complex program, but it's not a problem, but in what I saw, I didn't know if it was copied from the Snowboots or what was with it. [[Defiance in the ranks of the MSZP.]] But they're prognosing nine million pigs. [[Interjection from the ranks of the MSZP: Wow!]] With this type of economic policy and this type of agricultural policy, it is certain that, not only will there be 9 million pigs, we are almost there, Mr State Secretary, that even the 3 million that were in danger, which were held very hard by larger businesses in general, and mainly because they made such a large investment in the aid they received before the change of government, that they had to hold it in part. By the way, I indicated that the closure of the sites will start in May 2016. I indicated this because I knew that the five-year maintenance obligation would expire, and I have bad news, Mr. State Secretary, very high-quality livestock companies also stopped keeping animals, and there have been serious layoffs in the countryside. So there's no reason for any pride. I hope very, very much that the slaps that come into the sector and come from economic operators will make the government wonder if the kind of sayings they have done here in the agricultural policy are really good. Obviously, this is not a problem of financial policy, financial policy is implementing what the major policy decides, but that it is wrong and that it has nothing to do with the development of the profession, that is for sure. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] So that's why I'm saying there's no success story in this. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2016-10-14-46	Thank you very much. The speakers who have asked for a normal word will be the first speakers, Mr Sallai R. Benedek, LMP. Here.
u2016-10-14-47	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. In the joy of the unexpected surprise... I have been following the debate since this morning, and I have seen with great interest the report by the Secretary of State, Mr Domokos, and with at least as much interest as the speaker of Fidesz, notary Szűcs's speech, and immediately, what struck me there, is about the hurraoptimist, positive world view approach to statistical data, which is a special feature of fidesz propaganda, but what is actually a good thing, if someone always sees the good in everything, it is a positive ability, it is a problem if they deceive public opinion, so if they paint a picture that doesn't exist. Mr Szűcs reiterated what he had said before, first of all, about the reduction in unemployment and said that this was due to the economic impact. At the same time, Minister of State said the share of the public works programme, we can roughly talk about how the proportion of commuters from Hungary and those who have left Hungary are counted in the statistics, so that this fall in unemployment, which is mentioned in the context of the closing accounts, as a positive contribution from the budget, does not exist. In practice, there is such a bad situation that more and more people leave the country, who are permanent workers, and the need for a public work programme is becoming more and more. The interesting thing is that what reflects both employment policy and economic policy for the government is that the demand for public work in rural areas is in parallel with the general primary labour market deficit, which means that the employment policy that you have represented in recent years has failed, because this parallel comes together, and now it seems that there is no way out of it, because you have not found it very well. Then I listened with interest to them talking about a reduction in public debt. Here I looked at the statistics exactly since 2010, in millions of euros: 78 million in 2010... - I'm sorry, am I right? So in million euros: I start from 78 426 in 2010, this is 80,9 percent of the GDP at that time, then in 2011 72 225, then in 2012 it went back - one when it fell - 76 681, 77 687 in 2013, 77 689 in 2014 and 80 365 in 2015. This means that government debt has increased forintally, and public debt has also increased compared to 2010. I think that we are looking at the same statistics, so this will not be disproved, because, in practice, this means that the citizens of this country are more indebted to you as a result of your economic policy than they were in 2010. Obviously, this is strange, because we will be negotiating with colleagues here today about the amendment of the National Earth Fund and the National Earth Fund Act, about how to deal with public debt, because they are practically unable to deliver on this basic promise, and if they do not sell the Hungarian land and Parliament and what comes to their mind, they cannot push anything into the public debt to produce any result. So I can see in this, too, that there's a little slip. There is also the number of real wage increases, to which my fellow Member has also drawn attention. It is also possible to look at the 2015 results on how to raise average wages if the top managers' wages increase. It is not that, let us say, there has been a substantial increase in wages in the civil servants sector, in the civil servants sector or even in the business sector, in the primary labour market, in the construction sector, no, this is not the case. The issue is that the wealthy, the rich, the corporate leaders, in particular, have taken out more than the public companies, which has increased the average value of average earnings, but the masses of people do not really feel it. But I'm gonna let it go, because I don't really want to get involved in your business. One more thing I would like to say is interesting, because I listened to Kossuth Radio this morning and what our Good God, Prime Minister Viktor Orbán is saying is that Hungary is now a private economy. I don't know much about economics, but tell me exactly what it means or what it means, because I don't want to ride on the words here, but someone who's been a Member of Parliament for 26 years and 10 years as prime minister, I don't know if he's allowed to inform the public on Kossuth radio with such terms; The government alone is not capable of doing good economic policy. "This morning," said the Prime Minister, an hour before the closing bill was debated. Please tell me who's supposed to influence economic policy. So who do you think is... - so if you have the tax policy, the aid policy and the legislative environment, what can't be achieved with these three, if the Prime Minister doesn't think it's the government's job to bring about meaningful, positive effects in economic policy? So Prime Minister said this morning, he said that we are improving competitiveness, and that is why we need to coordinate the actors of the private economy. That got me thinking again. Among other things, Mr Secretary of State, but I have seen that Congressman Józsa has already reacted to the fact that this competitiveness is a bit of a two-edged weapon, which is mentioned when I look at the 2016 edition. The report of the World Economic Forum on the 4th of the month X, what I see: Hungary's position in the competitiveness ranking has decreased significantly. At the moment, we are at the same level as Sri Lanka, Namibia and Mongolia in terms of competitiveness. [[Interviews from the ranks of the MSZP: Botswana. The president's ringing the bell.]] [[14.30]] I'm sorry if you said that right now from the global economic report I'm reading - and it's printed in front of me - right now... [[Interjection.]] ...that's what's clear. And I look back at your competitiveness here, here in Google, and I look at what is literature about it, and I see that this is the World Economic Forum, when it comes to its 4.2-point drop with competitiveness scores, which is the worst result of all time in Hungary - so, once again, I don't know if these journalists and such global economic forums are lying - he says, "Our country's competitiveness score is 4.29, which is the worst result of all time." Hungary's competitiveness has deteriorated the most among our Eastern European competitors. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. So what I really don't understand is that these very, very positive signals that we've heard here in the intro are coming from what, because practically all statistics are being debated and virtually all numerical data disproves them. One more thing: the Prime Minister - I listened with interest while I was crossing the mountain - said this morning that the aim was the work-based economic system. The whole world is going in the direction of how to build a knowledge-based society and how to create a significantly better quality of life from less hours, but you don't, insist on this work-based social system, which, as I look around the country, means that a multitude of public workers are trying to do something across the street, smarter municipalities are making a good program to practically create a self-sustaining system, but it can never be self-sustaining, because the regulation forbids them to put the goods they produce on the market, let us say, on the market, because they would create a competitive disadvantage for entrepreneurs as they produce from public sources. So, as I said, I don't want to interfere in your profession, I just weirded out these leaders and these figures, because from the competitiveness ranking to virtually sovereign debt, to the growth of real earnings, we actually see a failure everywhere. And I also remember something about wages: there is also a figure from 2015 that, if you don't mind, Mr Secretary of State, this is the record of the difference between the lowest average wage in the county and the highest average wage in the county, which was also measured last year, because the biggest difference in average wages between the capital and Szabolcs-Szatmár-Bereg County was now, which continues to support the fact that this economic policy is, in practice, breaking up society more and more and more and more, distinguishing poor rural areas from urban areas. And when you look at it, or just reading articles, you see, as an interest, that a II. district or XII. district citizen can share GDP per capita with approximately one Swedish citizen, while there is GDP per capita in the North Great Plain region, North Hungary, South Great Plain, and South Transdanubia with a Moldovan citizen. Obviously, these data fundamentally disprove what you are saying, but, as I said, this is just my interest or interest in representatives, as I listen to these economic data, while the Internet's professional press is completely full of contrary data. Then I'll get to what I asked for, now that I'm past the introduction. [[Defiance in the ranks of the MSZP.]] These are two areas: one would be the financing of environmental and nature protection and the other, obviously, the question of rural development. We have again stepped back on environmental funding in 2015, as we cannot basically guarantee the constitutional fundamental rights of Hungary's citizens so that the right to a healthy environment can be guaranteed. Now it seems that there is a long way to go to the Poison Warehouse on Scenty Road, but we are talking about practically events in 2015, and if we are talking about this, we can talk calmly about Balmazújváros, and now, as we know, Kiskunhalas, which is one of the reasons for putting citizens at risk in the wrong budget planning, even though opposition representatives are submitting their budget amendments to this, how to allocate funds for compensation funding, you are not dealing with this. The environmental security of Hungary is essentially the responsibility of the government, as it basically assigns a lot of other tasks to it to ensure a healthy environment. But obviously this is not just about it, but also about the fact that, after the closure of the institutional system of environmental protection and nature protection has been achieved through administrative integration, let's just look at the problems that have arisen from 2015 onwards. In the case of Liszt Ferenc International Airport, it is visible from the beginning of 2015 - that is when the environmental operating permit was extended, which was extended without any substantive examination, was valid until 31 December 2011, and it was then given five years - from then on it is known that the noise level will continue to exceed the health limit, but there is no institution in Hungary to enforce, say, the right to live in a healthy environment from all the other districts concerned, not to mention down from Zugló, also at some level. From 2015 we know that because of Falco wood chips production in Szombathely, local residents consider noise and air pollution to be unbearable, the municipal and environmental authorities are, in effect, pushing files among themselves, and there is no meaningful progress in doing so, because the entire laboratory network, which would be suitable for professional, audited measurements, has been liquidated and terminated by you. The health consequences are virtually proven by the medical reports, and the health-damaging effects of this have been clearly revealed in the area of Szombathely. In 2015, there is no source to settle this. I'll tell you more about the case of Metrans in Csepel. Minister Péter Szijjártó announced as a success in 2015 that, following his personal negotiations, we owe it to him that the German company Metrans is building a logistics and storage terminal in Csepel. In relation to investments, practically a request from a disaster management authority reveals this in Hungary, since no environmental institutions are indirectly involved, even though they want to extend this transhipment condition to containers containing dangerous substances. What does God give you? There is no environmental institutional system, which will review all of this and deal with it in substance. But if we look at what happened on Százhalombatta, about which I do not want to talk much, because the storm cloud is gone, Homatech Recycling Zrt. is connected to Sándor Csányi. He wanted a rubber waste processing plant where practically the environmental institution system ceased to function and forgot to take any action in this case. In Jászberény, Jász-Plasztik Kft. start its poison warehouse and permit its upper-tier hazardous waste storage plant without the environmental institution system being able to act on its merits and with an adequate staff and infrastructure background to measure them. And then we can go to all the cases that you have spent money on, even though it would have been better if you had spent these resources on other tasks that my fellow opposition Members had said before, such as developments concerning the green surfaces in Budapest, as has already been said here, two of my fellow Members mentioned, the case of the City Park. At the same time, the same development started beyond the capital city, and last year, the EU's support was paid to the yacht port in Balatonfenyves, where you allowed the total privatisation of 4 hectares contrary to the Lake Balaton law. They gave 4 hectares to a luxurious yacht port for private purposes, ignoring the fact that the beaches of the surrounding settlements are collapsing, and the visitability and tourist use of the settlements would be worth anything. But these problems are not only in the field of environmental protection, but also in the field of nature conservation, because they started last year, because instead of involving Natura 2000 habitats in national park property management at any level, they started selling those that have not been in asset management until now. Budakeszin on a 31-hectare property - the whole Natura 2000 area - practically started building land, because the nature conservation system did not prevent it and did not say anything. I would also like to talk about such and similar matters, that if I am allowed to do so, because overall environmental and nature protection is one of the main losers of the 2015 budget, beyond many others, health and education, and I will continue, if I may. Thank you for the floor, Mr President.
u2016-10-14-48	State Secretary Péter Benő Banai asked for the floor on behalf of the government. Mr. Secretary, here you go.
u2016-10-14-49	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Allow me to respond to one or two of the points that Congressman Sallai R. Benedek has made. He said that he didn't want to interfere in the business, but he was critical of government policy in several areas, whether we look at the number of employees, whether we look at the real wage increase or the debt. If I may, I will try to give the Member a professional response to the question of the Member, which also refers to official documents. The number of people employed - said several times, I have to repeat: - 2010. I. semester and 2016. ANNEX II Between six months, 436 200 people were added to the competition sector. When we talk about people going abroad and that's why the number of employees has increased, let's look at the statistics, please, and also look at the legal environment in Hungary and in all Member States as regards the free movement of workers after joining the European Union in 2004. [[14.40]] Let us also look at how regional competitors, who are often referred to as examples, are said to be much better than we are, have evolved in this respect. How many people from Poland or the Baltic countries went to work in the West? In view of this, we value the figures in Hungary, and we do appreciate the fact that more than 400 thousand people have been employed by the competitive sphere from the growth of more than 600 thousand people. As far as real wages are concerned, we have seen in recent years that average real wages are increasing substantially. The congressman said that this was due only to the fact that the wealthy earn more, not the lower earners. Then allow me to give you factual information again, professional data. The change in the minimum wage shows a 3.4 percent increase from 2014 to 15 percent. [[Zoltán Grimlock: Gross!]] The guaranteed minimum wage increased by 3.4 percent. Gross, that's right. Then I'll ask if the personal income tax rate has changed. [[Zoltán Haughty: Yes! In our day, it was zero, Mr. Secretary.]] And I'll ask you what range of inflation was. If these are added, real wages have increased by more than 3.4 per cent at the minimum wage and at the guaranteed minimum wage. Let me also mention, in relation to the 2015 figures, how the minimum wage and the guaranteed minimum wage have changed from 2015 to 16: the minimum wage is increased by 5.7 percent, and the guaranteed minimum wage is also increased by 5.7 percent. And if we are talking about gross, let's add a change in the personal income tax rate, a 1 percentage point reduction and a small positive range of inflation around zero. So what I can see from these figures is that there is a very significant rise in real wages for people working in lower income categories, which goes beyond the growth of the economy in 2015; this is borne out by the bill for closing accounts, which we are now in the debate on, and otherwise in 2016. State debt. On the one hand, the government debt indicator is included in the 2015 discharge itself in the norm text, as the Fundamental Law requires the government to pursue a fiscal policy that will result in a continuous reduction of public debt. Let us not forget that this very tough legal limit and the establishment of a Fiscal Council, which is guarded over the limit, was necessary because, on the basis of the figures, the debt-to-GDP ratio rose radically in the previous decade after 2002. In this sentence, I also expressed the fact that sovereign debt is measured in proportion to the performance of the economy. It is no coincidence that both EU rules and financial investors and various professional organisations are looking at the development of public debt in proportion to the performance of the economy. What I see is that according to the European Union methodology, on the basis of public figures, the Hungarian government debt-to-GDP ratio decreased by around 6 percentage points between 2010 and 2015, while the EU average increased by 7 percentage points. This is also important, so that Hungarian data must be evaluated in the international context. I think that this is also a very positive change in terms of competitiveness. I stress that not only does the government see it this way, but also international and domestic professional and institutional organisations. There has been a lot of talk about competitiveness. There are - this is a consensus, I think - subjective factors of competitiveness, and there are factors that can be measured by numbers. Let me give you one or two figures: GDP is 0.7 per cent in 2010 at the time of the change of government, the EU average is 2.1 per cent; the EU average in 2015 is 2.2 per cent, and the Hungarian figure is 3.1 per cent. The employment rate in the European Union increased by 1.5 per cent between 2010 and 15 in Hungary by 9 percentage points, from 58.9 per cent to 63.9 per cent. So I think that if companies dare to employ you, they hire extra people because there is a demand for their products, because they are competitive, because they can and can sell at home and abroad. That's what the statistics show. Moreover, the prosperity of companies is not increased because the state is lending, it is not growing because the population is indebted, but because a healthy economic growth is being achieved. So when we look at rankings in terms of competitiveness, we should, I repeat, take these factors that can be measured by numbers in addition to subjective factors. Allow me to respond very briefly to earlier speeches. Congressman Zoltán Gőgös spoke about the state of the agricultural economy. I must join here in reference to Mr Sallai R. Benedek's reference to Prime Minister. Of course, the Hungarian economy can prevail in a market environment that depends on the policies of other Member States, depending on global economic processes. Typically, the agricultural economy is also an area where global economic processes, in addition to weather, have a significant impact on the performance of the domestic agricultural economy. In 2015, the change in the system of support referred to by the Member did not mean that the sector would be the source of resources from the state, but meant that, in accordance with EU rules, the funds transferred from large farms to smaller and medium-sized farms to the state, using direct producer subsidies. I think that this can also be seen as a competitive step, since economies of scale can be much better than larger economies. This step, I think, was in line with that land for farmers! With a programme in which the government wanted to provide resources and property to small and medium-sized farms, with the support of the Parliament. With regard to social and employment matters, very briefly. I would like to respond to the points raised by Mrs Ildikó Bangóné Borbély, Mrs Anita Heringes. It is possible to criticise the employment of young people, and there are certain points in recent years where fine-tuning is needed, which is often done by the government. But when we criticise the employment of young people, let us add that the employment rate of young people has also increased considerably in recent years in the EU comparison. Then let us add that there is now a job protection discount that was not before 2010. When we criticize the tax relief of the first married, let us say that there is a tax relief now, there was no such tax relief before. When we criticize the number of children's commitments, let us add that the fertility rate has improved. It's still low, I agree with that, but the fertility rate has improved. And let's add that the age group who gives birth to children is now, unfortunately, smaller than a few years ago. [[Bangóné Borbély Ildikó: They are abroad!]] Because the children of Ratko-children, that age group, they're out of parentage. [[Bangóné Borbély Ildikó: No! They're out of the country!]] And, Congresswoman, let us add to the criticisms that there is now a family discount system that provides hundreds of billions of dollars that have not existed before. [[Bangóné Borbély Ildikó: Because they cannot stay here!]] In the same way, criticisms can be made in relation to children's meals, but let us say that around 2010 it was 31-32 billion forints, and now it is around 70 billion forints. [[Bangóné Borbély Ildikó: Because there are more poor children! How much more are the poor kids?]] All I ask with all due respect is that when we make proposals, criticisms and, I hope to say, improved comments on either the economic processes or the implementation of the budget, we should always add the facts. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2016-10-14-50	It is now possible to speak for two minutes. Congressman Nándor Gúr, MSZP, here you go.
u2016-10-14-51	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Secretary of State Benő Banai, I would just like to say two points for the reasoning that you have said. One is that we are talking about closing accounts in 2015, so we should not use data in 2016. He'll use it next year when we talk about it. Slipping is what you're doing. Slipping, it doesn't suit you. You're a professionally trained man, at least that's what we thought of you at the same time, and you, too, I understand. Don't slide. 2015 closing account, data for.15 - okay? Let's keep it that way. Then let's stay in this and look at the second sentence of the movement. Minimum wage, 2010: net, hand-held amount of HUF 60 200. Sixty thousand two hundred forints! How much in 2015, Mr. Secretary? I'm sure you know. If not, I will help you: 68 775 HUF. [[14.50]] What's the difference? 14 percent more than it was in 2010. Let me add: what was the aggregate rate of inflation during this period? I'll tell you this: it was more than 14 percent, 17 percent. In this sense, people with minimum wage received less money than in 2010. They stole the poorest people with the lowest incomes, I don't even talk about public workers anymore, with 47,000 forints and 52,000 forints in the present period. And, you know, if it's a minimum wage, I'm offering you one more thing. Look at also how we say what is on the Visegrád Four level in terms of minimum wage, what was when we joined and what is now. Now, you know that the minimum wage in all three other countries is between 100 and 110 thousand forints, the Slovaks, the Czechs and the Poles. You know him, don't you? You also know how much we have: 30-50 percent difference in net value. Net! Don't talk nonsense, Mr. Secretary. Stick to your professionalism, not to serve politics in an irrational way. Sooner or later, you're gonna get a nasty defeat in this story. Thank you very much.
u2016-10-14-52	Now, I'm ordering a three-minute technical break, until they get stronger in spirit. [[Defiance.]] [[Pause: 14.52-14.58President: Dr. István HillerJournalist: Attila Gelencsér]]
u2016-10-14-53	We'll get back to work. As a representative requesting a normal word, I give the floor to MEP László Teleki, MSZP. Here.
u2016-10-14-54	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, You see, I'm a total underprivileged because I don't even have a representative of the government in place. [[Defiance.]] But I can see you're coming now, so I'm a little calm. Seeing the material that we have received, we see very important numbers in it, and I think that those numbers are decisive, and they show that there is foresight in the country at the moment, so it can go on in the crisis that we have seen in the last two or three or four years. Yet, when I say this, that is why I have doubts and questions that really crucify the poor and the Roma population within the poor. I think it is very important that I repeat the sentence where Flórián Farkas went at such an item on the agenda, and where Felix Farkas disappeared, who would very much like to be here at such a item on the agenda and to say that they see from the government side the deprivation that the Roma in Hungary are experiencing at the moment. [[Nándor Gúr: Where are the Wolves?]] They are not brothers, so I would like to add, I would also like to say in the minutes, but it would be important to have them here, because at such an item on the agenda, I think they should also protect from the government side why the situation of the Roma among the poorest has not changed in the last six or seven years, including 2015. Because when we listen to Mr Secretary of State, you can really see that there are rising trends in numbers, but the social situation does not show what we can see, especially in rural areas and small towns, because there is deprivation, poverty and total vulnerability. [[15.00]] At a time when the report on education or the health situation or employment gives different information, numerical information, it is not possible to see that, for example,... I will start with Roma representatives, including civil society organisations. There it can be seen and shown that costs are falling rather than rising compared to the period before 2010, and I am thinking not only of supporting the NCA, i.e. the National Civil Fund, but also of other support, which was close to 7 billion in our time, now nearly HUF 4 to 4.5 billion, which is present. I think that the citizens have been completely set aside, and the Roma civil society organisations, which are not able to survive now, are the most disadvantaged, so the protection of the interests of the Roma has completely ceased, i.e. there is no way to talk about the presence of protection of Roma interests in Hungary. My question, Mr Secretary of State, is whether the government would like to do something about this, to give more resources and more autonomy to civilians. Maintain the role of civilian control, because I believe that democracy cannot be built today in Hungary without a role of civil control, so I would consider it very important that civilians should be dealt with very highly, because that is not what comes out of this material. But if we look at the Roma minority self-governments within the minority self-governments, then it can be said that the situation is catastrophic. Secretary of State, why doesn't the government say that there is no need for the Roma minority self-government? Why don't you say it? Because they simply do not have enough planning or operating budgets, because when we are talking about 300 thousand forints, we are talking about 370 thousand forints, a year's operating budget for a minority municipality operating in a settlement is that much, so does the Roma minority self-government, and next to it, there is a task-based grant, which I have said in Parliament a lot of times, which is what a chaotic situation it is to go through to have access to this certain amount that can strengthen operating costs and programme funding, then it can be said that a lot of local governments, even if it works well, can't really call it off. Therefore, I have repeatedly asked that task-based grants be tried to score and deliver them to the stakeholders according to some other system. So there is definitely a problem within the minority self-governments with Roma self-governments. Mr State Secretary, the problem with this is that the existence of Roma minority self-governments in a settlement is now giving rise to much more distaste in the majority society than it would do, even though it was a good initiative to create national self-governments in addition to the municipalities. Now, after nearly 20 years, it can be seen that this causes conflict situations within the settlement, because its funding is not solved, and its professionalism is not fully developed. Therefore, I am not talking about the territorial levels - so I am talking about the local levels - because it is so chaotic that it does not deserve to be said, there is no owner of the regional minority self-governments. Therefore, it is important to think about what is the situation there, that where nearly HUF 1 million, not even HUF 1 million, can be used for a year, how a territorial system can be operated, I do not know that, and I do not see the end of it. Two thoughts about our national self-government, the Roma self-government. I miss you and I miss you now that in the report, the SAO's report, it doesn't include 2015 what the money was missing from the Farkas Florians. It is true that there is another material that has also been published on the website of the State Audit Office, which can be read, points to several facts that have caused a chaotic situation in the National Roma Municipality. I would also have liked to have seen in this report that in 2015, however, the payment and financing of various funds had to be stopped, precisely because the National Roma Municipality had squandered the funds it had received for the benefit of the common good. Therefore, I think that you, who are dealing with this area within the government, should see that the Wolf Florians are now once again receiving the resources that should be spent on Roma. I am now indicating that I do not see the possibility that the Farkas Florians can spend well the public funds they will receive because they have proved on the basis of the SAO report and on the basis of the report that they were not spent, and the Ministry pointed out this, the Ministry led by Zoltán Balog pointed out that they did not manage the way they should have done with more than 200 million forints. So, overall, in the situation of civil society organisations and local governments, it seems that it does not serve the layer that it should serve, and it does not serve because it does not receive any ammunition, it has not been given the opportunity to articulate enough for the tasks that they should solve. So that's why you're involved in this, that's what the government has to do to do something about it. Some things about education. There's an increase of 0.8 percent here, too. Maybe that's the case, and I'm not arguing with that, although my professional experience does, and my experience in life doesn't show that, because maybe now they're being sourced because of the teacher's career model, and you can see what kind of resources have appeared, but the amount spent on students is going down in proportion, and I'm willing to say it. Thus, especially in education, Roma education, it means that instead of education, they can give fasting to Roma children who want to learn, because the obligation to teach reduced from 18 to 16 years means that they will raise and release aid workers from school benches. Do you want to continue with this question? Because in the 2015 budget year, there was little opportunity for those who would want to get out of the school system at the age of 16 to stay in and stay in the education system, so that they would not get out into the capital, illiterately and without a profession, because then there would be nothing more than tax-paying citizens to support tens of thousands or hundreds of thousands of people - including the Roma - who would get out of the education system. When will you eliminate the segregation of education, Mr. Secretary? Yesterday's news reports also said that there is now a court order that will have to be terminated at Nyíregyháza, but it will not be liquidated. I would not even like to point out this question to you here, but to someone else later on, but I certainly do not see it on the financial side of 2015 either, that it would have been very much turned to this question, that mobility, which I have talked about a lot about, would therefore help the poor and the Roma from one school to another, so that they do not get segregated many times by these families and children living in a small settlement. Therefore, in education, I see that this is very important. But in education, I have to mention that I see a significant decline in the proportion of people in higher education. For the Gypsies of Hungary Public Foundation could see how many Roma scholarships there are. You have abolished this public foundation at the end of 2010 in 2011, even though everyone was calm and calm, the non-Roma population saw how many Roma young people with taxpayers' money reach college and university. We can't see this now. So we are seeing a very hidden situation, a hidden situation, because they do not want to show whether the educational situation of the Roma is improving or falling. But I dare say, there are a lot less people going to college or college than there have been in the last ten years that you've seen. In the health situation, I believe that there has been little mention of prevention. I say that word because prevention can be an important moment in the treatment of health care. I often see that health care is spent with no resources or minimum resources being spent on medical treatment and prevention, even though screening and other preventive interventions would be very important. Once again, I would like to underline that the nearly 110,000 inhabitants of the Roma population - I repeat: 110 thousand of them - who live in gypsy farms, do not receive any health prevention, and indeed, as my fellow Member Lajos Korózs said, they do not have nearly 70 percent of their valid property cards, i.e. they only perform life-saving surgery or intervention on these people. Once again, there are 650 Gypsy colonies in Hungary today, and there are nearly 110,000 people living under those conditions. [[15.10]] On this issue, too, when we see the issue of housing here in the proposal, we do not see whether you have dealt with these issues or if you have been able to use them to eliminate the Gypsy settlements. And you have also failed the poor with 110,000 people, who, by the way, can do nothing but stay in unemployment, stay in the organization of education without knowledge, and remain trapped in employment and health. Therefore, I think it would be important to establish a forward-looking situation on this issue, too, because if the health situation is not treated - and not by prevention and prevention - then the Roma who live there, in that situation, can safely say that they die 10 to 12 years before their Roma counterparts. This may be the goal of many people, but I think that in a democratic country such goals and such spectacular numbers must be changed and these numbers must be reduced. In the employment situation, I think that there is nothing to say but that the numbers we can see are cosmetic, because in 2015 we can see that they have tried to handle them with public employment. Nearly 80-90 percent of the Roma community, the Gypsy minority in Hungary, is active in the Roma community, because the local authorities, who can and cannot work in the world of permanent employment, are able to employ them. The question is whether there will be programs that will lead them into the world of permanent work from the public employment world, or will continue to receive professions that have already been carried out by the Türr István Training Center, but they have now ceased. The question is whether you want to continue to address this issue, but not at a level such as István Türr, but also at some other higher and more predictable level of training for Roma who have had the opportunity to work only in public employment for several years or decades. These are the issues that are really stressful, and questions that should be answered not only because of me but also because of the Roma population; because they cannot leave nearly half a million people on the side of the road, and they cannot be excluded from all parts of employment, housing, health and social areas, who are rightly pointed out by the majority society that they must prove. And to prove it, we need a crutch, help that is essential for you. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2016-10-14-55	A two-minute speech is possible. Congresswoman of the MSZP, Anita Heringes, can live with this.
u2016-10-14-56	Thank you very much. In response to Mr Secretary of State, we need not only fine-tuning in these areas, but I think we should seriously rethink it. I mean, think about it, Mr. Secretary of State, that the 600 thousand people who left the country, and I understand that many people from other countries have gone abroad to work, but these young people are going to live there, and they are going to have children. The child who was born abroad will no longer come home to Hungary, and that will be his home. And the greater the tragedy for this country than for working young people to find their future abroad and their children to stop coming home to their country, but to live abroad... - I don't think they do. That is why I think that we need to create a system in which these young people can live today, in Hungary, so that they do not see that this is their only chance to leave, but to see that they have a training system that will enable them to get a job that they can make a living from. I think it's a very simple process. But when they see only the public work programme as their only chance for young graduates living in the rural village - because they have no transport, no place to go, or they can't give the child to kindergarten in time, because the kindergarten doesn't open yet, when he should go to work in the city anyway - I think that the graduate youth will see no other chance than to leave. It is therefore necessary to establish a system where these young people have the opportunity to travel, live, live, and raise their children in a normal system at home. Thank you very much.
u2016-10-14-57	Thank you. Mr Sallai R. Benedek is next as a normal speaker, LMP.
u2016-10-14-58	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I will soon get to rural development, but before that, I would like to respond to a few things, if I am already honoured by your reply during the debate. Unfortunately, most of your colleagues could not do this, so thank you very much for doing this. Some of the things I've told you, some things you wanted to deny with professional data. I'll give you your expertise. Let's just look at it. He said it was in vain for me to say that the amount of government debt had increased forintally, because it had to be seen as a proportion of GDP, and it was accurate. But at home to my wife, if we owe 8 million forints in January and 10 million in December, then I should say that we owe more, but the economy is good, so it's better for us, much better. I'm willing to do this, he said it should be compared internationally. Let's take a look. I looked at the sovereign debt of the countries of the European Union as a percentage of GDP, because he said that we could be proud of it. Estonia, Bulgaria, Luxembourg, Romania, Sweden, Lithuania, Latvia, Czech Republic, Denmark, Slovenia, Slovakia, Finland, Poland, the Netherlands, Austria, Spain, Malta: countries whose sovereign debt ratios are better than ours in proportion to GDP. Obviously, we can be proud of the fact that Greece and Italy are significantly worse than us, and indeed some of the welfare states, because the EU is behind us from 27, but we are in the upper third. I can look at it in terms of GDP, but the picture will not be so positive if I look at the countries in an international comparison. Then I was able to respond to the increase in employment in the competitive sector. I haven't had time to start talking about agriculture and the countryside, but let's just say that when you say that there was an increase in employment in the competition sector, you didn't respond to what I said in part to the fact that last year the record of the disappearance of SMEs was set three times last year. I can only provide accurate data from agricultural employment. In agricultural employment: your agricultural colleagues always say that agricultural employment has increased by a few thousand, ten thousand, but they never add that self-employment, the individual enterprise and the pre-production system, which is complementary income or otherwise in the livelihood of the population of the Hungarian countryside, has decreased by 15 percent since your registration. Forgive me for not being able to give only data from the year 15 but when the situation of SMEs continues to deteriorate and they cease to exist, and you say that employment in the competitive sector has increased, it means that you are a small and medium-sized enterprise diversary economic system that is suitable for managing rural employment and a lot of self-employment, which means that you are transferring it to an independent person, a world of employees, to be employed in the competitive sector. That means there's the self-employed, there's the little bt that's being liquidated by the owner, and he can go to a rubber factory or a Mercedes factory for injection molding. Because that's what his statistical record points to. The question is that, according to your government, this is the right direction and the goal is to work in such assembly plants, or the right direction where small and medium-sized enterprises in Hungary, companies with less than 5 employees, companies with less than 50 employees are stable across the country in rural areas. Obviously, the Possibly Other is in favour of the latter, but these figures clearly point to this as well. After that, it is very important that I listened to your leader here in Parliament, and I liked to say that he was pleased that the advance on the funds needed to pre-finance the European Union's programmes does not count against the minus, i.e. the budget deficit. Then this means that this is a bit of statistical fraud, because if we compare it with the previous years, it doesn't have it in it, and it doesn't have it in the present one, which means that if the pre-financing tasks were in deficit compared to the 13-14 budget, and for statistical reasons, the EU allowed us not to put them in it, then this slightly distorts the statistics we are talking about on the basis of comparison. There's one more thing I want to tell you. I myself, as a Member of Parliament, am the father of four children. What you can tell me three times in a row is how good family tax breaks are, that's what I feel. The problem is that the vast majority of Hungarian society is not paid by its representatives, and in the vast majority of society, the tax incentives it is proud of cannot be used. The top 10 percent of the Hungarian society - or 5 percent of the income - where it is felt that tax relief has been granted, this is felt, while those who live on a public wage of between 50 and 60 thousand or on a minimum wage do not make a substantial contribution to the family budget. Therefore, the constant expression of this is good that we give tax relief, we give tax relief, but unfortunately, the majority of Hungarian society cannot use it. I wanted to respond to one more thing. He explained about competitiveness, that obviously it doesn't matter how we look at the indicators. I quickly looked at two more figures that if we look at other research, not the data of the World Economic Forum, but the data of the Statistical Office of the European Union, I think it is a little worse. [[15.20]] It says that Switzerland is the most competitive state in the world, followed by Singapore and the United States. The first third of the ranking is dominated mainly by European countries and other OECD Member States, but also by China, India and Russia. On the other hand, Hungary became the 69th post-Romania, Bulgaria, India and Slovenia, and this research method examined competitiveness in eight points overall. I apologize, maybe more, because he says that we have eight points in our competitiveness that are among the worst in the world. Four of these are in the institutional category. So when you say you agree with the Prime Minister, don't forget that the Prime Minister says you can't influence him. Well, one point in determining competitiveness is precisely the institutional system, which is one that is measured. There are four of them here. On the basis of this survey, the biggest problem of our institutional system and of our competitiveness is that, in the course of government decisions, favored businesses have a significant advantage. Obviously, I do not want to go into the country's corruption situation in addition to economic policy reports now, and in relation to closing accounts, but this international data will help us to judge this as well. Government decision-making cannot be said to be problematic in respect of property rights, but there are significant problems with the ethics of corporate behaviour. In the innovation category, institutional problems persist significantly. This means that when we talk about building a work-based society or a knowledge-based society, this kind of innovation, which could be one of the driving forces of the economy, is one of the worst indicators of our competitiveness. My apologies again, because, as I said, I don't want to interfere in your profession. I wanted to talk about the development of rural infrastructure, for example, and why I do not want to adopt this discharge law, where I see areas of shortage that I would not like to see. Let me be the first to mention rural road infrastructure. In 2015, approximately three times as much money was collected from road maintenance contributions and taxes as it was spent on the road network. At the same time, it is interesting to talk about the development of the road network, because when it comes to GDP growth and the performance of the economy, forgive me if I have been careless and overlooked - I do not know how much the system of payment of the European Union Structural Funds has started since the middle of last year, and the first substantial payments that have fundamentally influenced the country's development policy and thus GDP have been made since the autumn. The government has spent exactly one third of the amount it has collected on road infrastructure from national sources. As a resident of Túrkeve, who travels on the route to Túrkeve from week to week, and from time to time exchange car shock absorbers and bearings, like many other people in our region, this is being charged to the Hungarian government, because it is okay to say that no one has done anything between 2002 and 2010, the problem is that no one has done anything about it since 2010. But they did do something else, and this is centralization. In most of these small regions, administrative centralization, health centralization and educational centralization require commuting on a daily basis. The labour market now attracts the population of smaller settlements in the countryside to cities without a normal, accessible network of roads. I am obviously reprimanding this to the 2015 budget, as the funds have been collected for this, but have not been used for this. Situation of rural schools and hospitals. I assume you're a very busy secretary of state, and you don't have time for that, but if you look at the photo materials you can find on the Internet about rural hospitals and schools in various parent forums and patient forums, how there are bathrooms in hospitals without handles, washbasins without taps, fallen tiles, well, these issues have not been settled. As far as I can see, the reason for this is, and as far as the discharge law shows, the renewal schedule is all waiting for EU funds. In this country, it seems that 2015 proves that this country is unable to solve everything on its own. We are teasing people against Brussels, but at the same time, if the agricultural support system fails, the development resources of the European Agricultural and Rural Development Fund, which are targeted at agriculture, if structural fund payments are stopped, then the construction sector and part of trade are shutting down, so the economy is shutting down. This is instructive because we have witnessed the incitement to Brussels in recent weeks in many cases, which we obviously understand as patriots, beating our breasts, how good it is for us that we come from space and we are Hungarians in the middle of Europe, but at the same time these figures make a significant contribution to GDP, but at the same time they are not included in the use of the fiscal law. But I can tell you other items; forgive me, it's agriculture again. I do not expect you to react, because your agricultural colleagues should deal with this. Budgetes for the elimination of undivided joint ownership have been part of the budget since. Every year since 2012, hundreds of millions of forints have been spent to eliminate this unsustainable state in Hungary. Compared to this, they were able to present a single county in 2015, where the measurement of undivided common property began at all times - not in all other areas. My fellow Member, Zoltán Gőgös, spoke about the problems of the pig sector and affected the problems of the dairy cattle population. At the same time, I may also mention in the field of agriculture that the government has already mentioned it regularly in the 2014 elections, and before that, it was very often said how disadvantaged Hungary is in the level of irrigated agricultural land in the EU countries. The meliorations, the irrigation development campaigned the countryside, and I personally had the opportunity to listen to the amazing dreams of Secretary of State Czerván in 2014 about how we will turn a semi-de Desert into a productive agricultural field cultivation. No substantial progress has been made in these areas. And allow me one last thought. I really like to read documents sometimes, because what they write is always in stark contrast to what they do. My favorite in this regard is the national rural strategy. The national rural strategy was adopted by the Hungarian Government in 2012 in the form of government decisions, and the overall aim of this strategy was to improve the habitability of the Hungarian countryside and its population preservation. Let me give you some indicators, because when we have to judge your budget, we have to judge how your plan, which you have adopted, has been implemented. Here are the indicators of the national rural strategy. The percentage of water bodies of watercourses achieving good ecological status in the national catchment areas is as a percentage: it considers 2010 as a starting point and set a target for 2020. This means that it was around the middle of 2015, so we're right in the middle. He wanted to increase this from 8 percent to 24 percent between 2010 and 2020. Now we're at 7 percent, which means we're down 1 percent; it was halfway through 2015. The proportion of water bodies of a lake with good ecological status in the national river basin management plan: we wanted to increase it from 18% to 72 percent. We still do not reach 20, even though we are halfway through the 2015 budget. Percentage of groundwater bodies achieving good chemical status in the national river basin management plan, i.e. as per the water management plan. This one data refers to 2021, so we are not yet fully halfway through. We wanted to increase from 68 percent to 77 percent, but there is still no shift in half time. Total forest area in thousands of hectares: 1 million 913 thousand hectares in 2010 and 2 million 100 hectares in 2020. There is no shift, but there is a significant deterioration in quality, as the forest stock shifted towards the tree plantations, so that the amount of forest in the biological sense has decreased and the number of trees has increased. Percentage of protected areas of national importance: increase from 9.1 percent to 9.2 percent. Perhaps it has become a protected area that can make a significant contribution; this will be achieved, since it has a good starting point. They want to keep an index of the changes in the population of the typical bird fauna of agricultural habitats. At the moment, stocks have fallen, as have the objective EU Bird Faunist Indexes, obviously due to agricultural technologies. Since my time is running out and I do not want to waste your time, and I would like to ask you once again to say that the size of areas living in the management of national park directorates in hectares: they wanted to increase from 288 thousand to 430,000 in 2012, but there was a decrease in the proportion, and they sold Natura 2000 sites, which could have been increased. Animal farming share of agricultural production: they wanted to increase from 35.6 percent to 45 percent, which means about 10 percent. So far, 2% has been improved, but it will also deteriorate significantly this year. The size of areas covered by the agri-environmental management programme: from 1 million 163 thousand hectares to 2 million hectares, but it has been reduced in the new agricultural support scheme. Overall, these indicators, excuse me, show that in terms of environment and nature conservation, in terms of agricultural policy, the government has performed poorly in terms of rural development, and I cannot, for my part, support this adoption. Thank you for the floor, Mr President. [[15.30]]
u2016-10-14-59	Congressman Nándor Gúr, MSZP!
u2016-10-14-60	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I welcome this debate, even in the sense that Parliamentary Secretary Péter Banai Benő is among us, because he sometimes uses numbers that can be adapted to the real situation. And, then, in that sense, there may well be an appropriate basis for assessing and interpreting the situation. Mr Secretary of State, I am putting together a number of trends and trends that have been used in his speech, so that he can be given to the minutes, and if there is anything, to say, objection, then let us know that we can discuss things. Look, when you talk about unemployment and employment, let's look at the situation for the first time, regardless of the numbers, about what you've done over the last few years, let's say, about the unemployed. Whoever could have been pushed out of the supply systems. Just like I said. Whoever could have been pushed out of the supply systems. Remember, we ran a nine-month-long job search scheme, and then you reduced it to three months. In fact, the three-month term is not enough, it is well-known to everyone, and naturally to you, that if someone loses their job, they will re-condition themselves and find the opportunity to re-place themselves. But if you're looking at the unemployed, then in my judgment, following a fraudulent act, what did you do? They opened a door to quasi-employment, bringing in a lot of people among the public workers, 150 to 200 thousand more than before. I would like to point out that if you do not know the example, then we can talk about it in more detail, as you remember, in the case of Pearlwood, where, if I remember correctly, a 300-metre drainage ditch was cleaned by 16 or 36 people for 3 or 6 months at a speed of 8 centimeters per day. You do not see this as a valuable public employment, but as a humiliating, vulnerable situation in which people who have done this workflow did not enjoy themselves. And I have many examples like this, so I'm telling you, I'm telling you, that you shouldn't be proud of that. They should not be proud of putting people in a vulnerable and humiliating position. And I would add that in this public employment system you made 47,000 forints instead of 60 200 forints net wage, which, as time progressed, in those five years, between the end of 2010 and the end of 15 you suffered about 17 percent of the combined inflation value. In English, you took away one third of the net earnings of these people's earned money with their two-thirds government. You shouldn't be so proud of that either. Let's just say that's it, the first time it's tied to unemployment. I'll give you numbers. Employment. With regard to employment, let us start from the fact that you said a million new jobs were being created in the economy a long six years ago. I hear you say today that 436 200 people have been created in the competition sector. Secretary of State, math. You know? But it's not the math either. The math. That's easy. That doesn't come out. I'll tell you why. Then let's look at the numbers. Employment. In 2008, the 15-64-year-olds, this is an underlying category, 3 million 818 people were employed in this age group, 3 million 818 thousand. In 2015, 4 million 176 thousand people. If I take the worst data after the global financial and economic crisis, 2010 is a turning point, a period of government change, then the number of people employed is over 3 million 700 thousand. He can still account for a surplus of 470 thousand. But I would like to add now to the surplus why this is not a surplus, but just a minus. They put about 150 to 200 thousand more people in public employment than they did before, and I just told you in what format. In terms of student employment, between 150 and 250 thousand people are pulsating in the system each year, obviously, becoming employed by you as employees of the statistics. That wasn't included in the employment circle six years ago. Working abroad, thanks to you, I can say with a calm spirit, you have chased away 140,000 people out of nearly 600,000 people in Hungarian statistics as employees. In the past, six years ago, it was around 20-30,000 people. So there's a huge surplus of 100,000 in the system. And in many cases, 8-hour employment places have been turned into 4-hour jobs, which show up in statistics in the same way as 8-hours. As one. About 70-80 thousand people are more employed today than full-time employees for 4 hours or part-time workers. If you put these four numbers side by side - you don't need math, you need arithmetic - then the sum of these four numbers is about 600,000. You are talking about the creation of a surplus of 436 200 people in the economy. While the worst figures show a total difference of 470 thousand people between 2010 and 2015. Yes! It's just, like I said before, compared to the 475,000 surplus, 600,000 major manipulations. 600 thousand main calculations, which were not previously included or can be derived from public employment and employment abroad and from the transfer from 8 hours to 4 hours of employment. So, in terms of numbers, you can start talking now, and I gave you the basis. With regard to unemployment, 2008 is once again the year of the global financial and economic crisis, with an unemployment rate of 7.9 per cent and 326 thousand in the count of the unemployed who are considered unemployed. What's in 2015? There are 308 thousand minus 18,000 people who are no longer in the system as unemployed. Of course, it's not the same thing. Now, in terms of unemployment, we know that many of the unemployed have come to the public employment stage and that very many have gone out to work abroad. So in this sense, I think that you should not boast about how unemployment figures are, but should be ashamed, just as in the case of employment policy, because, in terms of one million new jobs, you would not have added, but, unfortunately, been taken away from the system. The National Employment Fund is looking at a little financial background. This was the Labour Market Fund, and they made a National Employment Fund out of it. Immediately when this fund became national, it had a ten billion-dollar reduction in its resources. It is a shame that this trend shift was introduced in combination with a national indicator. I have to say that what is going on in the labour market, say, in terms of job search, in terms of duration, on the part of the unemployed, is frightening, because over a year and a half is the average job search time, 18.4 percent. I also have to tell you that more than 47 percent of unemployed people, job seekers, almost 48 percent, have been registered in the system longer than a year. While there is a shortage in the labour market, there is a certain supply of employment places. In the meantime, of course, you wish to bring 250,000 people to Hungary, on the basis of a proposal from industrialists, with the support of Mihály Varga. Instead of, for example, those public employees who have been chased into the public employment system, many of them and, where appropriate, the same activities as previously employed civil servants, because those people could easily be retrained, would have been trained in the direction that could have been combined with the pursuit of work. [[15.40]] No, you didn't do that, you didn't do that, you didn't do that, you didn't do that, you didn't do that, you didn't do that, you didn't do that, you didn't do that, you didn't do that. But if you look at the active employment policy, in the employment policy and training areas around HUF 1700 million was spent on these two areas in 2015 for the National Employment Fund. There are huge territorial differences in this country, Mr Secretary of State, not only in terms of employment but also in terms of wage position. One sentence has already been addressed by one of my fellow Members, but I would like to tell you that these differences are not small-scale differences. If the average salary in Hungary is 170 thousand forints net, for example, it is below 120 thousand forints in Szabolcs-Szatmár-Bereg county. But in other counties, Borsod-Abaúj-Zemplén County and other eastern and eastern counties, he is not very good either. In addition to the fact that there are such wage positions, in addition to the fact that there is work to be done in terms of the level of education, you are either operating systems that are inoperative or are destroying the systems that are still in operation, the regional conversion centres, many other things that would have provided the most opportunities, in particular, for people who are the most deprived, the most vulnerable, working at the level of public employment, or who could have been clearly and clearly helped by my fellow Member Teleki in relation to the Roma people. From what I've seen, this part of you doesn't seem to impress you, doesn't care. Unfortunately, you're interested in someone else. If I move from the employment position to the pay line, then it's important for my friends to have 5 million forints of buddy money a month. They are also able to include the MÁV as a financial service sector within the financial service sector, so that a monthly salary of HUF 5 million can be paid to the management. Meanwhile, there are 4.2 million people living in this country below the per capita minimum of living - 4.2 million people. Do you know how much this is, Mr. Secretary? Almost half of the people in Hungary. In this country, there are 2.2 million people working, more than half of the employees that are accumulated and manipulated in all statistics, who earn less as workers than the sum of the minimum living per capita. I want you to search the National Tax and Customs Department's records for me. Or, if that doesn't work, ask Tállai's fellow Member to provide you with data, and then he will clearly and clearly see that according to their tax returns, 1.4 million people - not Gúr says, no, according to their tax returns - earn the maximum minimum wage of 1.4 million people. Do you understand, Mr. Secretary? You'll earn the minimum wage at most! Today, we are living this world, and on this basis we will take into account, perhaps, hopefully, pensions. What kind of pensions will these people expect? And then you'll be at the same time... [[Lajos Korózs: 54 thousand HUF/month after 40 years of service...]] That's right! That's right. That's right, Congressman Korózs. That's right! And at the same time, you gave me a cynically 0.9 percent pension increase while you were telling me about the scale and the extent of economic growth that you were talking about? Mr. Secretary. Put these numbers next to each other. Please be aware that in this country 73,000 people receive less than 50,000 forints of care for pensioners and pensioners today! Please be aware that today there are 364 thousand people among pensioners who receive a pension of less than HUF 50,000. I don't want to say it anymore, because it would be cynical to try to make a living, say, on a level of income like this. I don't want to say this because I know you can't - I can't. Yeah, but these people don't have a choice, they can't decide whether they're gonna make a living with these money or not, but they're gonna have to suffer from it somehow. So, the problem is, you know, when poverty is at this level in this country, and corruption is at a level that I haven't told you yet, at the level that I'm at, there's a huge problem. You don't steal money, you don't lie to people's eyes, you don't cheat. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] to do what's right for the good of the people. Mr. President. Thank you very much, I'll continue.
u2016-10-14-61	Secretary of State Banai has asked to speak. [[Dr. János Latorcai, vice-president of the Parliament, takes the chair.]]
u2016-10-14-62	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I would only respond very briefly to three points. In the first point, I must reject the word "mashing" in relation to employment data and the term "marrying into people's eyes" in connection with the 2015 accounts. The second thing was that, in connection with the closing account, it was said from the Member's mouth that arithmetic does not come out. The State Audit Office assessed the figures and their merits. It couldn't have been easy, let's say, a decade ago, arguing about closing accounts between the walls of the House. [[Zoltán Pride: It was very easy! The intervention of Anita Herring.]] And the third thing: there is indeed a difference in principle between the government and the Socialist Party. As you say, living on aid, living on state benefits, is a value. The government thinks that the real [[Lajos Korózs: Who said that? No one told me! Anita Beringes: It doesn't suit you...]] care must be taken of the needy by the state and job-worthy people must be provided with employment opportunities. Efforts should be made to enable as many people as possible to live from work instead of aid. Where the two approaches lead [[The intervention of Anita Herring.]] There's a lot of numbers. I think that these two [[Lajos Korózs: Derekasan protects...]] The electorate will also be able to vote on economic policy and its results the next time. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2016-10-14-63	Once again, I would like to welcome my fellow Members and the notary, after he has told me his two minutes, I would ask him to take his place next to me. I now give the floor to Congressman Nándor Gúr, the notary of the Parliament for two minutes. Here you go.
u2016-10-14-64	It's an honor to have the president miss you on the bench. I'll try to comply with your request. Content things, Mr. Secretary of State, Péter Banai Benő. The Hungarian Socialist Party's clear position is that everyone who is only able and able to do so must be given a job in Hungary. In Hungary, Mr. Secretary. [[Bangóné Borbély Ildikó: That's right!]] Not to drive away, to send away, to drive away, to create a situation... [[To the Minister of State, Péter Benő Banai:]] Don't look. Don't look, think. [[Peter Benő Banai: Thank you for your kindness!]] ......................................................................................................................................... In this country, creating a situation where people can't live their lives. [[Péter Banai Benő: I can't turn my back if they're talking to me! Ildikó Bangóné Borbély, pointing to the benches of Fidesz: There is no one to look at!]] I'm telling you, we need to create a situation where they can live their lives, where they don't pay 47,000 forints of public employment or 52,000 forints in this period, and where they don't create a vulnerable situation for them. Look at how far the vast majority of people are living their lives today under income conditions! Mr. Secretary. Don't think about the top 100,000 all the time. Not in the 200-300-500 thousand people who can really live their lives in a decent way! Start taking care of people who can't earn a decent living from this income level because they can't! The math? I told you why he didn't come out. Very simply: I have outlined in detail, if necessary, I repeat it again, if necessary, we can learn it together, I want it to be clear to you - I want it to be clear to you - that you do not have to lie all over again, you do not have to slip it all around. Take on what is factual: nothing has been done in the economy, no new jobs have been created in the economy. [[Sándor Farkas: That's not true!]] The economy has been created outside the border by others who are counted into the statistics. When jobs were created in the economy, jobs in the economy were also lost, which compensated each other. Not a new expansion, not a new surplus. That's why I say with a calm spirit, you don't lie in people's eyes. [[László Földi: Two minutes are up!]] So you don't have to manipulate things, you have to take on things factually. Thank you very much.
u2016-10-14-65	Thank you very much, Mr. Notary. Once again, it is up to Congresswoman Ildikó Bangóné Borbély from the MSZP Group. Here you go, Congresswoman.
u2016-10-14-66	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary. I started my previous speech by complimenting him, because at least you're sitting through the debate and here he is. Sometimes I'm sorry when there's a closing in this Parliament, because it's trying to protect the mundane's honor, and then there's no one with it. [[Lajos Korózs: They always let him down!]] [[15.50]] The MPs, let alone don't talk to him, don't even come to Parliament to at least help you with this task. I would like to return a little bit to the birth of a child, but before that, there is only one item: this is due to the introduction of everyday physical education, which I would like to say a few more words about. It was this government that introduced everyday physical education, I might add, that everyone supported it because we said that children should move. There's nothing wrong with that, but they've forgotten to put it next to the infrastructure, in people as well as in gymnasiums. And then a national gym and school programme was launched, which was about - and hold on here, Mr State Secretary - to provide 3-3 billion forints per year for school and gym building. I'm telling you to hold on, because here we're talking about our children about an introduced measure that affected our children's lives and spent hundreds of billions of forints on empty-congo stadiums in the last few years. And this was the case in 2015 too, we built the stadiums on mushroom mode, there is no man to go in - yesterday the MTK stadium was handed over, Prime Minister was successfully whistled out, finally that this happened at a stadium inauguration. All I would like to ask, Mr Secretary, is that 78 facilities should have been built since 2014. Do you know how much of this has been built? Twelve of them. It wasn't even built what was planned in 2014 that was planned in 2015. [[Nándor Gúr will take his place in the notary's seat.]] Not even that; twelve pieces. It is true that, on a written question, the Ministry wrote that there were ten questions, only this week, and since then there have been two more. So we managed to complete up to 12 gymnasiums. Meanwhile, we see that this government spends hundreds of billions of forints on empty stadiums. Well, here are the differences in values, Secretary of State. That is a basically good measure because you can support everyday physical education... Do you know what physical education has become among children and educators? He's become the most hated guitar, the most hateful guitar, and the children hate him. And it's not because they don't want to move, it's one of the subjects they enjoy, because they move, they get refreshed, there's no serious accountability, if you can say so, children can relax. Kids today hate everyday physical education, precisely because... I think I've told you in the debate, but do you know, Mr. Secretary - you may not have heard - what is the similarity between Kung Fu Panda and the Karate kid? That children watch a lot instead of everyday gym class because they can't do anything else because there's no gymnasium. In the spring or autumn, it is possible to run on the streets and in all kinds of halls and corridors, but, you know, during the winter season, it is quite difficult to do so. And I'll tell you something else: even the swimming pool in Putnok wasn't built, the foundation stone of which was inaugurated by the Minister of Human Resources during the autumn municipal campaign in 2014 with the children out exercising in the pouring rain, and he was standing under his umbrella. He would have at least had the honor to be soaking with the kids, but we know that in the government, it doesn't matter. I would like to ask Mr Secretary of State a question about the tax reduction: do you know, Mr State Secretary, what percentage of women who have three and more children are working in Hungary today? I'm only asking you this about the family tax reduction. And I want an answer to that. How many women with three and more children are working in Hungary today? Just to see how these mothers can enforce this 99 thousand forint tax relief monthly. Tell me, Mr. Secretary, how much a man and a woman, a father and a mother need to earn in gross terms today in order to enforce this! I hope you will say that amount here. And then I would like to ask you if you can tell me how many thousands of people in Hungary today make so much money - just to see the numbers. I'd like to ask the Secretary of State who's the winner of the single-key tax. Because I know the numbers, I'm just asking the Secretary of State. Who and what percentage? Because you know that childless people are the real winners of a single-key tax system? And what percentage of your winners? It would be so good if this were to be said numerically within the walls of Parliament. How many billion have you won over the past few years? And he didn't have a child, Mr. Secretary. The fertility rate, Mr. Secretary, do you know why it won't grow? Because every year fewer children are born, and year after year there will be fewer women of childbearing age. That is why we will not succeed on this subject. And I would like to add one more thing: 2015 was the year that Gábor Zombor was Secretary of State for a few months, because then he had the honour to resign. Although the next Secretary of State, Ónodi-Szűcs, said that if he couldn't get his ideas through, he would resign. True, he hasn't resigned, and he hasn't been able to get his ideas through since. But then a sentence from Gábor Zombor's mouth came out in January 2015, which said - it was a radio report, which was then confirmed in reply to my written question - that there is a very strong government will to double the HUF 2 billion in the budget, which is earmarked for fertility, flask baby program. It is not a budget of HUF 2 billion, and it will encourage the birth of as many children as possible in Hungary, because we are always talking about the children we want, who are already going to be treated with a flask, we are always talking about the birth of the children we want. At the annual level, by the IVF baby program, about one tiny bit more than 6,000 children are born in Hungary today. There is no more to be born, since there is an upper framework that can be used by the OEP, no matter how we want to have 10 thousand children or 12 children - it would be possible, because today in Hungary one in five couples suffers from infertility, about, on a statistical basis, they say that we are talking about 200,000 couples, what they know, they say that it is much more, because very many are not in the system, because this is still a taboo theme in Hungary. Now, I don't understand if the government wanted children to be born in Hungary, children longed for, then this strong government will is stuck. Since then, I have asked János Lázár, Zoltán Balog a lot of written questions to explain what Gábor Zombor announced - I say we are talking about an extra 2 billion forints and that with this 2 billion forint, say, it could grow from 6,000 to 12,000. And you know, Mr. Secretary, the birth numbers would be very different. What I have just told you is that about 2 percent of this year is expected to have a decline in the number of children compared to last year, because unfortunately, the numbers show this, so the birth rate in Hungary will go below 90 thousand again, and this process could be solved. If this promised HUF 2 billion were to appear somewhere in the budget, then perhaps success could be achieved. But they didn't do that, they made the operation of the Krio Institute impossible. You know what I'm talking about? Our sperm bank. Now I don't have that either. And this will be linked to the CSOK program, because it will cause quite serious problems there too, when it is necessary to demonstrate why the child could not be born to the three children who took the job. Although, it is true that the Hungarian population is smart enough not to take up three children for HUF 10 million, because honestly, whoever invented this did not mean that today only someone will have children in Hungary because they will receive HUF 10 million. Although the numbers show that young couples weren't very good at building homes. So, Secretary of State, we have value problems: stadium gym, stadium swimming pool. There is a prime minister who is obsessed with empty stadiums in Hungary, while there are children who can't work out about the introduction of daily physical education. There is also a very big problem with the 2015 budget, Mr Secretary of State. 160 billion forints were spent by extraordinary government measures, there was no control, and very much the media didn't know about it. 160 billion forints, Mr. Secretary. [[16.00]] And the other thing that my colleague told me was Andy Vajna's 3.96 billion forints. This is also very serious because we don't understand why we had to. But tell me, Mr. Secretary, when we're going to reach him, when Andy Vajna will have to tie up a cash register in his casinos so he doesn't steal public money. [[Lajos Korózs: He's making a doughnut shop for his wife! Son of a bitch!]] When will it be when all sectors are slowly connected to the NAV with a cash register in Hungary, but for some reason they do not want to connect this one sector? We know why, only if we talk about the budget, then I think we should talk about why some people get such special treatment, although it is true that it was one of the Fidesz MEPs, Erik Bánki, who said that we had to create the casino law because we had to clean up the market. Well, that worked, the market became a two-player. [[Lajos Korózs: Toni and Vajna!]] So, Secretary of State, there are some problems with the 2015 budget, and I hope that you will give me numbers for what I asked you, either here, or when you do it in writing, thank you, Mr Secretary of State. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2016-10-14-67	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. A two-minute comment will be made by Mr László Teleki. Here you go, Congressman.
u2016-10-14-68	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, I would have been very proud, and I would have liked it if you had answered our questions too - I am thinking of my colleague, Mr Lajos Korózs, and of myself - when you answered Nándor Gúr. I am doing this because, I think, that you will talk about it, that we can no longer respond to what you are saying after the end of the debate, so it would have been very important that what I asked you about whether I agree with it or if I can argue with you, but once the debate is over, it is difficult for me to do so, so it would have been appropriate and good if you had already answered in this matter. I say this because there is a lot of talk about gypsies, the Roma population, and I never get the right answer, and many of them complimented me, which may already be suspicious, and they may be replaced next week if so many of us complimented on the left. [[Defiance in the ranks of the MSZP.]] But, indeed, we expect more from you than any other member of the government because we consider him a serious, well-prepared professional. Therefore, I hope that you will give some of us an answer before the debate is over, so that we can respond afterwards. Thank you very much.
u2016-10-14-69	Thank you very much, Congressman. State Secretary Péter Benő Banai asked for the floor. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2016-10-14-70	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Thank you very much, Mr Teleki. I trust that if you see that the government has expertise, [[László Teleki: In you! Ildikó Bangóné Borbély: He didn't say!]] it's a parallel to government. [[László Teleki: I didn't say that!]] With the development of data, so if we approach it from here, I think that I am pleased that the positive figures of the 2015 accounts are recognised not only by the Hungarian international organisations but also by those in the ranks of the opposition. With regard to its specific questions, let me respond very briefly to the fact that the Roma scholarship programme has not been terminated. [[Nándor Gúr intervenes.]] , the discharge bill states in particular in the EMMI chapter how much resources have been used. There are several programmes to help the Roma, which are detailed in the discharge proposal. Undoubtedly, if I were to respond to all the points, I think that I would take a great deal of time for the Honourable Parliament, but let me also respond to two points concerning the proposal for closure, which is allegedly not sufficiently transparent in some opinions - I do not know what kind of international organisation has said so, which is really relevant. On page 2975 of the document, the Network of Families, Chances and Volunteers contains specific measures to help Roma. And for example, to suggest that the word "poor" is used by the government or not, the word is found in the government document; the aim is to keep as few people as possible in this state. The philosophy of the government, I repeat, differs in this respect from that of the Socialist Party: we believe that it is not primarily aid, but employment. [[Proud Zoltán: Get a normal salary!]] As to the specific points raised by Mrs Ildikó Bangóné Borbély, first let me say that the Krio Institute, I think, is mentioned because it is difficult to argue with numbers in the overall context of the closing accounts, and it is difficult to find a catch. [[Ildikó Bangóné Borbély intervenes.]] With regard to your specific, other point: yes, Congresswoman, if you look at the legislation, you can also calculate that in a family with three children, two-hundred, if both of them do not have a total gross income of HUF 155 thousand, they can fully enforce the family discount. And let me answer that question with a question. Congresswoman, if you know how much the average salary in Hungary today is [[Ildikó Bangóné Borbély: I know!]] then you know that this benefit can be used not only by the wealthy, not only by the average earners, but also by families with lower earnings. [[Bangóné Borbély Ildikó: Gross 155 thousand?!]] Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-10-14-71	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. We will continue with the speeches. Mr Nándor Gúr, the notary of the Parliament, spoke again from the group of the MSZP. Here you go.
u2016-10-14-72	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Péter Benő Banai Secretary of State, I see that the experience gained in previous courses matters a lot, so that's the clue in the paper, the clue in the paper. [[Péter Benő Banai intervenes.]] I'm telling you, it's a clue, it'll be useful to the Secretary of State, no doubt. I'm one of those people who like to argue with you because, I'm telling you, he uses numbers that are right. Other State Secretarys have less guts to do this. It is risky on your part, but I would add that there is not only the kind of risk that if it is complimented from the opposition side, it can be consistent with it, but also the kind of risk that, if you are willing to say true data sets. I value it because, if necessary, it is able to do so, if appropriate. Besides, as I said in connection with my first speech, it is obviously a slippage when using data from 2016 in order to shape and paint the picture of the 2015 accounts. But not to concern myself with you, but in terms of content, I will tell you once again, once again, clearly, to make it clear that the Hungarian Socialist Party is a believer and is in favour of all people working in this country as far as possible. But I would also add that for the money that provides the basis for a decent living, not 47,000 forints, classified as acceptable by Marcell Zsiga, it is possible to live for a public employee's wage, not for a minimum wage, Mr Secretary of State, which is worth less in purchasing power for five years than it was in 2010. If we are talking about 2015, then the basis for the comparison will be HUF 60 200 in 2010 for HUF 68 775 in 2015, the plus 14 percent, which, as I said, was combined with 17 percent in terms of aggregate inflation in these five years. Which is more, 17 or 14? It's arithmetic, it's not math. And if it is true that 17 is more and not 14, then for five years - and in the years before 2015 it was even more true - these people took into their hands money with less purchasing power, quasi-stealing these money from them. Do you know how it was stolen? I'll tell you that, too. It was stolen by employers and employees together monthly after the minimum wage in 2010 - together! - 32,000 forints of contributions were paid, and by 2015 this was found to be 69 thousand forints. Against HUF 32,000, HUF 69 thousand was added to the minimum wage, which was paid by employees and employers together - it was taken from them. The employer was pressed against the wall because, by having to pay more contributions, there was obviously less wage increases, and also the worker, who was directly deprived of more contributions than in the previous years. If they do not do this, but do it in a fair way, they will be satisfied with the contribution income for the minimum wage that was, say, in 2010, then today, in 2016, it could be said that there could be a net minimum wage of HUF 100,000 in hand. [[16.10]] No, it was important for you to siphon these extra contributions, make them part of the central budget, and then scatter them among your buddies, because from then on you've managed these resources directly, in an inaccessible way, in many cases, but you've taken them away from people, and you've squeezed your employers. They gave the employers one chance to do more: they were told, quasi-directly, that you could hold your employees against the wall, you could pull more skin off them. Is this a fair game? Mr Secretary, don't answer these questions in the final words, but on the go, now, during the debate, I say there is courage. If you're going to start talking at the end, I'm going to say that, Mr Secretary of State, you shouldn't have to do this here in Parliament, because I don't want to know what you're going to say in the end, but I want to know what your answer to the questions raised by the Members is, whether you have a sensible answer, can you debate what we are saying, regardless of which lane we are sitting in. So, with all due respect, I ask you to have courage, to have the courage to relate to the title of creating a million new jobs in the economy, but not by filling in a number, as we know that reality is quite different, but by taking it out nicely, clearly and clearly, so that it can be seen and debated, in any case, other claims can be made in addition to what you have said. That's where I've just finished, in a sense, there's poverty in this country, and on the other hand, there's corruption, and there's extortion. Yes, you know, at a time when some people can earn 10-20-40 thousand forints in a few years, they can earn 10-20-40 thousand forints, you know, when some people - you can say by name, for example, Hungary's gas mechanic takes up 800 million forints of dividends on his own after the result of the 2012 marketing year, and during that year he pays 157 million forints for the 225 forints he employs in total. Do you understand the three numbers? If you take a dividend of 800 million with your wife, which your wife will give up, you will be entitled to the HUF 800 million, you will employ 225 people, and you will pay the 225 people 157 million forints in total, then you will not be asked if you are okay with this? Is this how the wealth acquired between capital and work should be distributed? Or shouldn't there be some other type of regulation that pushes wages from the bottom up so that people don't live their lives on the stage of misery while others thrive? Now it doesn't matter what kind of forks or yachts they live in, that's not the point, the other end is interesting. If you make money with your brains, your knowledge, your knowledge in your hands, you don't feel sorry for anyone. I don't think Ernő Rubik is sorry. I don't know what kind of wealth you have or if you have, but if you do, I'm sure no one will be sorry because that's behind the potential of a intellectual product. But what kind of spiritual product is there when a person has access to support money under a designated intervention framework, and then the benefits and rewards of these are not enjoyed by the people he employs, but, where appropriate, he and who knows, who else besides him? What is the economic performance behind being able to barter six months ago after being in a particular company, anyone, anyone, by renting a helicopter? Secretary of State, these are the questions that need to be answered. How poverty, poverty, and corruption can come together in this sense. It's a thick part of what you have to account for, thick part. And then you won't answer questions that concern precisely the issues of poverty, poverty, health prevention and much more. Why don't you talk about it? I know why not, because it's hard to talk about; I know because revealing reality or reality shows the hiatus of this government. Of course he doesn't want to talk about it. I'm just saying, that's why I don't want you to sum up anything in the end, no. You can either argue or argue while you're going, or you don't need to sum up, we're not here for a fairy tale. Once again, back to the lowest income levels. Start examining, Mr. Secretary, you will need to start examining the evolution of the minimum wage, and start looking at how and how the level of the minimum wage develops within the Visegrád four so many times mentioned. I said, I told you, it is very important to have a net, which is emphasised by my fellow Member, Mr Korózs, and others, which goes into the hands of the people. I have said it many times, many times, and again, Mr Secretary of State, look at the minimum wage for Poles, Czechs and Slovaks. [[Interview from the lines of the MSZP: The Romanians, too.]] That's right, but you can see the Romanians now. But if we're just talking about the Visegrád Four, look at these, and you'll see that between 100 and 110 thousand forints per capita is the net net of the minimum wage in these countries. In 2015 68 775 forints in Hungary, but even if we were to watch 2016, it is still around 74 thousand forints, in Hungarian the net amount of the minimum wage is 30-40 percent lower in Hungary than in Slovaks, Poles and Czechs. It is not random for this country to be left even by people who can't, say, meet high professional needs and expectations, because they only have smaller professional qualifications and skills. Yeah, the only responsibility you have is to put these people in a position after six years of government. Within three years of the vocational training system, you can get someone there to acquire the right knowledge; this was not important to you. You know, if we're talking about minimum wage earners, I would also like to remind you once again to look at the fact that if you do real work for the public, you can also get a decent living and not 47,000, not 52 thousand forints. They do get real value-creating jobs, and from then on there can be no question that they have to be paid, not only do they have to jump on top, not only do they have to deal with the top, they have to not only provide for 5 million HUF monthly salaries for some friends. No, but where there are hundreds of thousands and millions of people whose daily lives are difficult, who suffer every day, who have to think today whether it's tomorrow or the day after, to whom they expire on the 15th of that month, not on the 30th or the 31st of that month, because they don't have money in their hands, in their pockets. You know, those people, the 1.4 million, I said, National Tax and Customs, who earn a maximum minimum wage in this country, live their lives like this, but that's how those who work live, and the minimum living amount per person, that amount of 88,000 forints, can't even earn. This should be addressed, Mr State Secretary, these are the real issues, these are the real issues, and not how and how to start, start manipulating me, yes, manipulating me with unemployment figures, employment figures, presenting wage positions. Of course, of course, in terms of wages, there is progress, but wages alone do not say anything. Wages then say - the average wage doesn't say. The median already tells you something, it shows more about it, the median wage. Also, if you look at how it is distributed among the individual social groups, in the lower decylis and in the upper decylis, this tells you more. Speak of this, Mr Secretary, then there is a reasonable opportunity for discussion to look at where to do, and then you will realize, or perhaps you will dare to say, yes, there is work to be done in the lower decylis, there is work to be done, because there is room for life, the opportunity is becoming more and more narrow. Don't talk about gross averages, don't talk about life situations, millions of lives. If they are unable and unable to do so, then I think they are unfit to govern, and they must be able to admit that, because they are not certain, they must be conspired for the benefit of few. [[16.20]] As far as I know, you have not conspired to do so, and if you have not conspired to do so, then stand up for your words, then it should not be a situation where, for example, after 40 years of working in a nursery, a person with a secondary vocational education should earn HUF 113 thousand net, I say, under 40 years of employment, but what they promised. It's just an example of a thousand. What has been promised, Madam Secretary of State Novák, here in Parliament, is that they will receive their wages from 1 January 2017 on the basis of the pedagogical career model. Then do so, because it will give this man 150,000 forints after 40 years! So, these are the real questions, Mr. Secretary. Now I look forward with great respect to you starting to argue and start talking about these issues. Mr. President, thank you very much.
u2016-10-14-73	Thank you very much. I will ask my fellow Members if anyone else wishes to speak in the debate. [[No signal.]] I do not see an application; the joint general debate is closed. I will ask Mr Péter Benő Banai, State Secretary, if he wishes to respond to what has been said in the debate. [[For signal:]] Yes, he does. Here you go, Secretary of State, you have the floor. You have a 30-minute time frame.
u2016-10-14-74	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, I am trying to stay within the time frame, and, if I may, I would like to begin by saying that I consider the authority of Parliament and the seriousness of the bill before the Honourable Parliament to be more important than to respond sometimes to questions of a personal nature, so allow me to re-assess the 2015 discharge proposal with a general summary of what has been said in today's debate. In 2015, the government continued its economic policy started in previous years, which, in the light of the facts, proved to be successful. The Hungarian economy showed outstanding performance in 2015 and expanded beyond expectations. In 2015, gross domestic product increased faster by 3.1 per cent than the assumed 2.5 per cent of the budget was submitted. Not only did exports contribute to the growth of Hungarian GDP, as we have seen in previous years, but also the role of consumption has become decisive. In 2015, household consumption expenditure increased by 3.4 percent faster than predicted 2.6 percent, in line with the rising income situation of households, with several factors behind it. On the one hand, the dynamic growth in employment continued and on the other hand, partly due to low inflation, real wages increased, which also helped to boost domestic demand. Finally, the government's previous foreign exchange rescue measures also contributed to the increase in consumption. Since 2010, the number of people employed in Hungary has increased over 600 thousand people. The employment rate is now above 70 percent, while unemployment is at an historic low level of 4.9 percent. This level is expected to continue in 2017 after the decline seen in 2015 and this year's decline. I would like to point out that the growth of the Hungarian economy by more than 3 percent in 2015 has been achieved while the balance indicators have also developed positively. With the help of the government's responsible management, in 2015 the government sector's balance was more favourable than its target of 2.4 percent deficit, representing 1.6 percent of GDP. The government's commitment to reducing debt is also clear. Both government debt under the Stability Act and government debt under the EU methodology decreased substantially by 1 percentage point, from 75.7 per cent to 74.7 per cent of GDP. To sum up, we can say that, over the past year, favourable macroeconomic developments and consistent, conscious economic recovery measures taken by the government have combined to enable the economic and budgetary policy objectives previously set to be fully met. Dear Parliament, According to the numbers of the closing bill, in 2015, key sectors such as education, health, increased their funding in proportion to national income, as well as economic infrastructural expenditure, have gained considerable additional resources. Among welfare benefits, the real value of pensions has increased, unemployment-related expenditure has also been reduced in the context of dynamic economic growth and increasing employment. This structural transformation can be interpreted as a very positive sign. The numbers indicate that the population benefited last year. This is confirmed by both the dynamic increase in average real wages and the substantial increase in real earnings both at the minimum wage level and at the guaranteed minimum wage level. In addition to economic growth, employment and wage data, the findings made in today's debate on the withdrawal of funds or the budget of the few can be said to be completely unfounded, on the basis of equilibrium indicators, over and over again, regardless of what the facts, the figures in the discharge proposal contain. Dear Parliament, Finally, I would like to thank the State Audit Office again for its work on the accounts. I think it is very important that their findings have been formulated in such a way that they have also highlighted all the things to be done that make a major contribution to maintaining responsible management and increasing accounting discipline. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen. I would like to ask you, together with any amendments, to adopt the 2015 discharge bill at a later stage. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-10-14-75	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I would like to inform my fellow Members that Mr László Domokos, President of the State Audit Office, has indicated in advance that he does not wish to speak now. Dear Parliament, The amendments were submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. We now have a general debate on the bill to amend individual laws in the context of a separate pledge until closure. Government referral T/12368. Number 2 is available on the Parliament's IT network. I'll wait for the warm change in the horseshoe. First, I give the floor to Ms Agnes Hornung, Secretary of State of the Ministry of National Economy, author of the item on the agenda, within a 30-minute time frame. Here you go, Madam Secretary.
u2016-10-14-76	Mr. President, thank you very much. Dear Parliament, Honourable Members, Currently, LXXVII of 2016 amending the Civil Code I would like to report to you on a package of legislative amendments to the Act. As is well known, the civil code has redefined the institution of the independent pledge already known in Hungarian law. The autonomous pledge was widely used in the domestic bank refinancing market between 1996 and 2014. The main advantage of the self-reimbursement was the lack of legal collateral. This meant that it was possible to transfer the self-reimbursement without a claim, as opposed to the ancillary pledge which provided the claim. In addition, due to the lack of collateral, the termination of the claim for any reason did not result in the termination of the self-reimbursement. The new Ptk. During its codification, the authors of the Code abolished the self-reimbursement for dogmatic and legal reasons, instead the new Ptk. regulated a specific form of pledge, a separate pledge. However, the separate pledge was not able to guarantee the kind of flexibility and fitness as a stand-alone pledge. In view of all this, this year the legislator amended the Ptk. and re-regulated the institution of the self-reimbursement. The amendment is backed up by an important economic policy effort to boost the domestic mortgage bond market. [[16.30]] This has already had tangible results, as so far four new mortgage banks have been announced, so the number of mortgage credit institutions operating on the Hungarian market has increased to seven. However, this is not only an important development for bank refinancing, but also a positive change for the Hungarian population. The aim is to ensure that the mortgage bill is available as a secure investment instrument to domestic investors, including the Hungarian population. This process also includes the re-regulation of autonomous mortgage law. In addition, the leverage effect of the mortgage bond market is also important because the issue of maturity consistency plays an increasingly important role in prudent banking. As part of this, the Magyar Nemzeti Bank is the 20/2015. In its Decree No.3 it provided for a so-called mortgage credit compliance indicator for credit institutions, specifying the percentage of the outstanding retail mortgage loan outstanding over one year with a mortgage letter or hedge bond. The target level currently to be achieved - the deadline until 1 April 2017 - is to reach the 15 per cent indicator. However, the rules of the separate pledge were not suitable for mass-related mortgage issue, so the re-regulation of the autonomous pledge was also an important criterion in this respect. Dear Parliament, It is important to point out that the legislator is not the old Ptk. revived its own pledge rules. It has created a more secure pledge facility, which protects the interests of the pawnshop owner, the pawnier. The new legislation precludes the risk of requiring double performance of the pledge in the event of the transfer of the self-reimbursement. However, the increased protection of the owner under a pledge did not undermine the benefits of the self-reimbursement. Indeed, flexibility and fitness have remained. These advantages allow the parties to use the same self-reimbursement after the repayment of the previous loan to provide a new loan, thereby saving time and cost. It is also possible, however, that if the debtor is to repay his previous debt and take out a new loan with more favourable conditions from another bank, the remaining self-reimbursement may provide this new loan. In addition to the re-regulation of the autonomous pledge, the Ptk. amendment established a special sub-type, the transformational self-reimbursement. The essence of this is that the lien can convert its already existing subsidiary mortgage right into an autonomous pledge. This is important for the lien because the conversion of a self-reimbursement can be used as collateral for mortgage bonds, which allows him to benefit from more favourable refinancing opportunities. However, the legislator also paid particular attention to this new form of pledge to ensure that the situation of the pledge is not difficult. In addition to this being specifically stated by the law, several detailed rules are used to protect the pledge. In order to ensure that the conversion autonomous pledge can be applied as soon as possible in bank refinancing and mortgage issuance, the Government proposes to amend the real estate registration rules accordingly in this proposal. It is important that, in order to facilitate the uniform and effective application of the law of the real estate public authorities, the law is supplemented by references to the conversion of a self-reimbursement. In addition to the Real Estate Registration Act, some clarification provisions have been amended to the Civil Code. One of these clarification provisions makes it clear that if the collateral mortgage right is converted by a contract between the parties, that contract shall be entered in writing. In this case, too, it is clear that the pawn contract establishing the original ancillary mortgage right should be regarded as a collateral contract linked to the conversion of a self-reimbursement. This is an important guarantee rule for the pledge. Another clarification provision in this context states that if the parties have already incorporated the original mortgage contract into a notary deed, this is not necessary again during the conversion. Dear Parliament, In conclusion, the submitted bill contributes to increasing lending to the housing market and to keeping interest rates low, thereby further strengthening the functioning of the financial intermediary system and making it more secure. For this reason, I ask you to accept the bill tabled. Thank you very much. [[It's a rare round of applause from the pro-government ranks.]]
u2016-10-14-77	Thank you very much, Madam Secretary. The main speaker's speeches will now take place within a 15-15-minute time frame. I give the floor first to Mr László B. Nagy of the Fidesz Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2016-10-14-78	Mr President, Dear House, The Ptk. During the period since its entry into force, efforts to create a dynamically growing, prosperous mortgage bond market have also been significantly strengthened in Hungary. Following the change of regime, the Hungarian mortgage bond market was set up by the 1997 Decree XXX on mortgage credit institutions and mortgage bonds. It was created by law. This segment of the Hungarian banking sector also developed significantly in the 2000s, but the number of Hungarian-based and Hungarian-based mortgage banks did not exceed three in 2015. The Hungarian National Bank, which oversees the banking sector, is determined to increase the number of participants in the Hungarian mortgage bond market, while at the same time the bank's refinancing market should be enhanced. In this connection, I would like to draw attention to the 20/2015 MNB regulation, which was also referred to by the Secretary of State. In this regulation, the President of the National Bank of Hungary required credit institutions to include a so-called mortgage credit compliance indicator - with a JMM abbreviation - to determine how many percent of the retail mortgage loan stock financed beyond the year should be financed by mortgages or covered bonds, such as sovereign debt. The target level currently to be achieved, as has already been said, is to be reached by 15% by 1 April 2017. The Act on the National Bank of Hungary provides for the definition of the requirements necessary to reduce systemic liquidity risk as a function of the National Bank. If nothing else, problems with foreign exchange lending have also highlighted the problems that credit institutions have faced with long-term loans with a few months of funds or interest rate swaps. This not only resulted in the risk of continued renewal of resources, but also led to a significant interest risk beyond the exchange rate risk, after the costs of new sources and interest rate swaps were passed on unilaterally by the banks to their customers. This is what we have seen with the foreign exchange tax problem in Hungary in recent years. Although foreign exchange loans have been converted into three-month BUBOR-linked variable rate forint loans, loans that are more predictable from both the bank's and the client's side are subject to a longer interest rate period or are defined as fixed interest rates for the whole term. It is undoubtedly a fact that these loans are currently somewhat more expensive than loans linked to the reference rate, while at the same time significantly reducing from the customer's side and, where appropriate, eliminating interest risk, especially for fixed-rate loans until the end of the fixed term. However, from the point of view of the banks, fixed-rate loans remain subject to the risk of renewal of resources and the interest risk associated with the acquisition of funds. Here, I would remind you that in the time of the establishment of the Hungarian two-tier banking system, since the 1990s, these specific and problematic transactions were continuously present in the Hungarian banking market, in the Hungarian economy, in the population, in entrepreneurs, because at the time in Hungary there were no long-term assets, so long-term savings, mortgage bonds, companies had no long savings at all, and yet the social demand of the population required long-term loans for housing and renovations, not to mention long-term investment needs of the company. [[16.40]] Thus, due to the anomalies in the maturity of the deposit loan, financial institutions were forced at this time to make up for the shortage of long deposits and long-term liabilities on the Hungarian market, which did not exist in the Hungarian financial sector, by concluding swap transactions for these often to be renewed funds. For all these reasons, it is of particular importance that a credit institution can finance its longer-term loans with longer-term resources as long as possible, in addition to the growing emphasis on maturity coherence for prudent banking operations. This is why the role and regulation of the central bank is important in this area. Furthermore, I would like to draw attention to the 575/2013 on prudential requirements for credit institutions and investment firms13. a European Union Regulation, Article 402 (3) naming only the autonomous mortgage right as a means of reducing the exposure of mortgage credit institutions in respect of large exposures. Moreover, the G20 Declaration of 2 April 2009 on the strengthening of the financial system called for an internationally coordinated effort to improve transparency and accountability by improving the volume and quality of capital in the banking system after economic recovery. The Declaration also called for the introduction of an additional non-risk-based measure to help curb the accumulation of leverage in the banking system and for the development of a regulation for stronger liquidity reserves. In order to achieve these goals, the Ptk proved necessary. the modification of its pledge rules, in particular the re-regulation of the institution of an independent pledge which is essential for the dynamic development of the mortgage bond market. In order to meet economic needs and the development of domestic credit life, the previous dogmatical position that led to the termination of the self-reimbursement was subject to review. The bill was adopted by the Parliament this year, so on 13 June 2016. The adopted proposal, bearing in mind the solutions used in the 2008 amendment of the German BGB, provides a satisfactory response to the criticisms previously made against the autonomous pledge. It creates a balanced regulation that fully ensures the protection of the pledge, but does not deprive the self-reimbursement of the advantages that make this pledge arrangement attractive to creditors. The new norm thus meets the economic needs that have arisen while also fulfilling the fundamental legal policy requirement that the debtor of the self-reimbursement should not be more disadvantaged than the debtor of the ancillary lien. The Ptk. The amendment also provided for the possibility of converting its ancillary mortgage rights on immovable property into a separate pledge by the financial institution. This conversional autonomous pledge differs from the re-regulated autonomous pledge in several respects. The most important difference is that the conversion autonomous pledge can only be used for the original purpose and therefore no other purpose of collateral can replace the original. The norm contains several guarantee rules to ensure that the situation of the pledge does not become more burdensome as a result of the transformation. The T/12368 in front of us. The proposed law amending individual laws in the context of the self-reimbursement contains further amendments to the law relating to this transformational self-reimbursement. On the one hand, in order to facilitate the uniform and effective application of the law of the real estate registration authorities, the 1997 CXLI on the real estate register. In addition to the provisions requiring the registration of an autonomous pledge, it also complements the Act with references to the conversional self-reimbursement. On the other hand, it clarifies the transitional rules of the Ptk. amendment in order to prevent the parties from concluding, by means of their agreement, a security contract which, although not binding on the pawn, would be detrimental to those pawns with the same rank as or above the ranking of the mortgage concerned, in line with the original objective of the amendment. Finally, the rule clarifies that the original mortgage agreement included in the notary instrument can be concluded after the conversion without including the conversion declaration in a separate notary document. In my opinion, these technical amendments, clarifications, serve as a requirement for clarity and legal certainty, which are essential conditions for the creation of a mortgage bond market, resulting in improved refinancing capacities in the financial sector and increased competitiveness. That is why I ask you to support the bill, and thank you very much for listening. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2016-10-14-79	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, The lead speaker of the Jobbik Group is Mr Gábor Staudt. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2016-10-14-80	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear House, I am not in an easy situation because we would have expected the Ministry of Justice to present such a proposal, since it is an additional proposal which lays down additional rules for the rules on the former, especially the self-reimbursement or corrects certain rules according to the author. Of course, there was a great debate in the Ministry of Justice at the time as to whether and in such a way it is appropriate to bring back the self-reimbursement. That's why I don't understand why they didn't, so the Department of Justice has this story, why they don't regulate it or bring it here. Perhaps they wouldn't have agreed to further refine the rules that weren't perfect anyway and unfortunately not in this sense in the right direction. We have to say that the problem and danger of the self-reimbursement has been mentioned at the conciliation, we said at the time that we are glad that the new Ptk is not involved. If you don't believe us, Professor Lajos Vékás told us, who is the new Ptk. he was directing his work and it cannot be said that he does not know civil law. Nevertheless, it appears that, in the interest of the banks and referring to the interests of the financial sector, this scheme has been brought back. It may be because of this that the NGM is the one who brings this in, and it is telling us that the person who made it has changed. It is even more difficult to have a substantive debate on this, as this is an area that is often discussed among lawyers, often subject to dogmatics-systematic discussions. I have to say that even senior lawyers do not agree in every respect on how certain sections should be interpreted or have an impact on either the financial system or debtors, in this case on citizens who are forced to suffer them. Therefore, those who are talking about their real estate, because they are talking about real estate, in the form of a mortgage right, will receive such a separate pledge, or whose traditional mortgage agreements previously registered can be converted by financial institutions - I will say so - one of them, because this is the way it was invented, a transformational autonomous pledge that they did not necessarily want when this contract was concluded; we are talking about an earlier period. [[16.50]] Adding to that, when the new contracts are concluded, and now, on the basis of the rules, it will be the autonomous pledge that these contracts will contain, in that case, they will not necessarily know exactly what that means. I see that a substantive debate cannot be held here either. In the expoze, we could clearly see a read text, the lead speaker of Fidesz presented a read text, and I do not see any other discussion partners from the opposition side; it is difficult to have a meaningful debate on a subject where the leading lawyers, the recognized legal authorities of Hungary, are also divided. You referred to it - and here I have to go back to the past for a little while, because that is what the lead speaker of Fidesz did, and it was not only about the current amendments, but also about the introduction of the autonomous pledge not so long ago - we heard here that the government wanted to comply with the MNB regulation or the EU regulation, the CRE regulation, when it presented this, and it was argued that this required the creation of an autonomous pledge. Well, based on the legal studies that have been published in the press since then, this has not exactly been or has not been the demand that appeared in these regulations, so there was already a sort of slippage. And I can't even say that it was the government who came up with it, and I think the banks came up with an argument that made it easy for them to lead the government, and in nice words - the protection of lending, the involvement of more money, the promise of lower interest rates, so who doesn't want low interest rates - they were able to bring this amendment over. By the way, the low interest rates are basically determined by the fact that the central bank keeps a low interest rate level, which, I think, has been achieved, because it is quite low, I would add, thank God, the central bank base rate, or by forcing banks to work with as little mars as possible compared to this central bank base rate. This arrangement, by which you say it will facilitate lending, may sound good, but it creates a facility that when someone takes out a loan, his property can actually be transferred as collateral in inter-bank transactions, or, as you can hear from the news, I do not know where the implementation is, that these financial institutions can even quasi pass this hedge value on to private investors or include it in their other transactions. But I wouldn't go into the depth of the legal details. It has also been suggested that the guarantee contract itself, which is written by the law, does not, unfortunately, define the elements of its binding content, only describes what should be included in this guarantee contract, not in substance, but which areas should be covered by this contract. So you're gonna leave the options open. Not to mention that it is practically not clear in the profession that we are dealing with a legal act or an obligation when we are talking about a security contract. If we are trying to target appropriate codification and application of law and legislation, then the minimum is to clarify fundamental rights-dogmatic concepts for professionals. I would also like to remind you that there was a very important point to the previous amendment, apart from the fact that it was not clear exactly how the cut-off of the pawn contract and the collateral contract was possible, how it should be done, not to mention the fact that the Ptk is a collateral contract. there are provisions for other contracts elsewhere, but I'm not gonna go into that anymore. The point is that their legal attitude will not be incorporated into the Ptk., as unfortunately has not happened before. So it seems that banks do not seem to be very interested in such legal dogmatic concepts or clarification of concepts, go to business, can push their will through, this is the most important, the other aspects, whether legal aspects or the aspects of the people - they know what they will sign in the future, what contracts they will sign when they sign such autonomous pledge agreements - are secondary to the government. On the basis of the previous amendment, we can also talk about the fact that, in practice, and I have already mentioned this, the right has been granted that, by naming the so-called conversional autonomous pledge, previous mortgage agreements could be converted by a unilateral declaration by financial institutions, which was a deadline, perhaps 1 October, if I remember correctly. This is already an interesting passage in itself, because every time banks get a right to a unilateral decision, it is a little suspicious for us, and it arises whether, even with the best intention, the whole story cannot go wrong, all the more so because the law writes about a guarantee contract, and in this case, if a unilateral declaration has been made to convert older contracts and pawns contracts, then there was no collateral agreement at the time, so the law talks about a kind of restructuring of the old contract, that the former pledge contract should be regarded as a collateral contract. Yes, but then the elements required by the law to be included in the collateral contracts in the future are difficult enough to comply with an earlier contract, in which, when they were established, it was not yet known that the government wanted to redefine these sections of the Ptk. It's just weird how this was done. With the amendment before us, they are practically moving on, and they are setting an extra pass, which seems innocent, again for the sake of the banks, which is about - and here is the 11th. I am talking about the amendment of Section 2 - that in cases where a conversion declaration, a unilateral bank declaration, is being made to convert these contracts into a transformational autonomous pledge, and I would like to carry out these matters later, then this conversion declaration, which has therefore been made and has not been published, can in fact serve as a basis for judicial execution. What's this about? It is not enough that the banks have been granted the right to transform these contracts, they have made a unilateral declaration, but if it were to be implemented, and otherwise very rightly the notaries could refuse, I think, this has happened, if they have already brought it to Parliament, they have been able to refuse the implementation of these converted separate pledges, because there was an element of the whole legal transaction, which was not published, and in these cases it is expected that all statements, even a notice, should be incorporated into an authentic instrument; well, in this case they have noticed that the implementation will not go ahead and are now being amended, and in fact, the end will be that even this declaration of conversion, which they will be unilaterally received by the banks, or that they will have to be bound into a notary document, but that they can then carry out a declaration, which they will not be incorporated into the former unilateral or otherwise authentic instrument. I do not understand how the government wants to eliminate abuses when this amendment is adopted, because the very point of the authentic instrument is to prove, even in the case of a unilateral declaration, when, exactly in what form and how the declaration maker made it. Not to mention, these statements should go to the debtor. [[17.00]] Of course, it can be confirmed in hindsight that these letters have been dispatched or received, but I still believe that an important element of legal certainty is that these and the conversion declarations should or should have been incorporated into authentic documents. They probably realized that the banks had already done this, and they hadn't filed it. So that's what I don't know if we can get an answer to, that's because, legally, we have an interesting situation, because we had to make these statements by 1 October, and it turned out that they didn't do it in an authentic instrument, and later, it can't be refurbished, because the deadline has passed, the deadline would be really embarrassing on the part of the government, and it would raise questions again. Therefore, it is not possible to go backwards, or whether the financial aspects may guide the government to spare banks the costs of issuing a notary document in order to include the declarations in an authentic instrument. I don't know which is true, by the way, but none are too good for the government. After all, they look again at the banks' or financial or legal interests, and they are able to re-introduce such a pass from the civil code and civil law system in a completely life-altering way. Not to mention, my time is nearing the last few seconds, that many, many experts have actually defined the whole self-reimbursement as an ancillary self-reimbursement. Long studies have been published on this, and I would also like to read it to the Secretary of State. So, in fact, the goal they wanted to meet is not satisfied with this design. If such a hybrid solution has been created, which may be good for the banks, but it presents more danger than that, I must say, both from the point of view of debtors and from a legal-dogmatic approach. So, unfortunately, it's not a success story, and from this, I think we can see that we can't support it in this way, in this form. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2016-10-14-81	Thank you very much, Congressman. Ladies and gentlemen, This brings us to the end of the keynote speeches. I will ask my fellow Members if anyone else wishes to speak in the debate. [[There's no candidate.]] I do not see an application; the general debate is closed. I will ask the Secretary of State if she wishes to respond to what has been said in the debate. [[For signal:]] Here you go.
u2016-10-14-82	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I would like to respond very quickly to the suggestion made by the Member. I don't want to go into a legal-dogmatical debate right now either, and I don't think this is the place to do it. I would not even like to argue about the amendment of the Ptk. because it is an amendment that has already been decided in the spring parliamentary session, which has now entered into force from 1 October. The legislative amendment currently before us proposes a few clarifications. Why are these amendments necessary? On the one hand, as you have mentioned, there is an EU legislation, and on the other hand, national banking legislation has made it necessary to make these clarifications. However, these clarifications facilitate the procedure, which is their primary objective. However, their secondary objective is to protect the consumer from investors. I would just like to point out in the stand-alone pledge that this is not the stand-alone pledge that was in the old Ptk. before the Ptk. amendment. This is a much safer construction created here by the legislator. Here, this precludes double performance. So it doesn't allow the pledge to get hurt. In the case of a conversion pledge, it is a priority criterion that this cannot be more burdensome for the pledge. So, in view of these criteria, I would like to ask the honourable Parliament once again to support this proposal. Thank you very much. [[It's a rare round of applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-10-14-83	Thank you very much, Madam Secretary. The amendments were submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. Now, the next step is the land for the farmers! A bill on the programme, and the land for farmers! The proposal for a decision on the Programme, as well as the 2010 LXXXVII on the National Fund for Earth. joint general debate on the draft law amending the law until closure. Government referrals T/12231, H/12232 and T/12230. Number 2 available on the parliamentary IT network First, I give it to Mr Bitay Márton Örs, Secretary of State of the Ministry of Agriculture, rapporteur of the item on the agenda, within a 60-minute timeframe. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2016-10-14-84	Dear House, Mr President, Dear Members, Ladies and Gentlemen, The proposals before you include the necessary provisions for a worthy closure of the largest and most successful public land sale programme since the change of regime in Hungary. I could also say that after doing such a far-reaching job, it is necessary to deduct a kind of conclusion, a form of final resume. But where did we start? In 2010, Parliament adopted the National Earth Fund Act by an overwhelming majority. With the exception of the MSZP, all opposition parties unanimously supported the proposal. The detailed rules of this Act clearly define the modalities for the exploitation of the state's land and, under certain conditions, allow the sale of part of the state's land. The National Land Fund Management Organisation has therefore been continuously selling state-owned land since 2010 and provides for lease applications, the conclusion of contracts, land registers and a number of other land issues. They implement the legislative tasks of the government and the Parliament with responsible and committed decisions for the Hungarian economy. I would like to thank all the current and former leaders and colleagues of the National Land Fund Manager and the Council for their honest work. On the basis of the successful land lease programme between 2010 and 2014, the government announced a large-scale land sale programme at the initiative of the National Chamber of Agricultural Economy and Magos in the summer of 2015. The clear aim of the land sale programme was to strengthen the Hungarian agricultural middle class by land ownership. [[Sallai R. Benedict: Smart.]] Taking into account the state land ownership structure, it was also clear that, in addition to family farms, small owners could benefit from the scheme. This is well demonstrated by the fact that until autumn 2015, until the start of the comprehensive land sale programme, the Hungarian State sold some 5 thousand land with a space value of less than 3 hectares on the basis of individual applications. Therefore, there is an objective number of proofs that the Hungarian economy has shown a strong interest in state-owned holdings even before the publication of the programme. The task of the programme was to promote small and medium-sized owners more effectively than ever before. The philosophy of the national government coincides with the property policy of the former small farmer, Endre Bajcsy-Zsilinszky. The more people get a piece of the land, the more families have a livelihood. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. [[Sallai R. Benedek: To the Butcher family.]] Dear House, In this context, nearly 20,000 auctions were made by government offices and staff of the National Land Fund Management Organisation during the land sale programme from October 2015 to August 2016. In addition, more than 35,000 public land of less than 3 hectares were published in public. It is important to highlight the work of government officials and colleagues participating in the auction, who also carried out the auctions which were often disrupted by political actions while carrying out additional work and working hours. From here, I would like to thank them as well. In contrast to all opposition celebrities, the public land auctions were closed in accordance with the law, in addition to the responsible sale of state assets, to the benefit of the Hungarian peasant society. [[Sallai R. Benedict: Lies!]] These statements are well justified by the fact that the opposition referendum attempt to prevent the land sale programme has been completely political failure, which, in addition, is surrounded by the wind of suspicion due to the many unidentifiable signatures. [[Sallai R. Benedek and Zoltán Grimlock intervene.]] [[17.10]] The tendering conditions were transparent and simple. Who meets the legal requirements and wins the public auction [[Sallai R. Benedict: And fidesz!]] or, under the Land Traffic Act, it precedes the auction buyer in the order of pre-emption, it becomes the property. It's real. All further statements are political propaganda, a political bake at the expense of the Hungarian economy. [[Sallai R. Benedek: Can you write this?]] Ladies and Gentlemen,
u2016-10-14-85	Excuse me, Mr. Secretary. Mr Sallai, I warn you: if you continue to talk in and out, I will warn you once again, and after two warnings, I have the right to exclude you from the debate, and you will not be able to give your speech. Thank you. Go on, Mr. Secretary.
u2016-10-14-86	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I've tried to write a nice, lousy speech for such an important question. [[Zoltán Grimlock: Yes!]] I wanted to share with you. [[Sallai R. Benedict: That's why it had to be written, but you can't tell me.]] I am very sorry that the intellectual absorption capacity of Mr Sallai is at least less than what I had planned to say in this debate. Ladies and Gentlemen, Over 180,000 hectares of agricultural land were sold in the auctions of estates over 3 hectares, while nearly 16,000 hectares of land were found. So about 70 percent of the land for sale was sold. In doing so, the government has made the basis for the livelihood of the rural population effectively stable, which allowed nearly 30,000 farmers to acquire property, strengthening their agricultural market positions and farming position. It is a special pleasure for me that young farmers have been very successful, who have acquired the ownership of more than 50 thousand hectares of state land in total. At this point, it is appropriate to lay down another strong domain policy objective of the national government, which aims to reduce the proportion of large estates from the current level of around 50 per cent to 20 per cent. This was the purpose of the estate reform, which includes the limitation of the amount of aid to the upper limit of holdings and the reduction of the drastic maximum amount of property laid down in the Land Traffic Act. From this point of view, it is interesting that 65 percent of the auctioneers bought less than 50 hectares of land, and more than 50 percent of the farmers did not even reach 20 hectares of parcel size. If I add to all of this the number that a person bought on average 2 real estates, then the language of the numbers, on the grounds of exclusion, cannot come to any other conclusion than that it was for the strengthening of the family farms. It is important to note that without resources, none of this would have happened. The basic element, I can say, was the spirit of the government's credit programme, which provided preferential financing assistance to farmers. Most of the auction buyers also made use of the possibility of preferential borrowing. Dear Parliament, With the closure of the programme, the State continued to own several hundred thousand hectares of agricultural land. This figure may increase further in the future, given the fact that NFA spends billions of HUF per year on land purchases. He uses his pre-emptive rights in fraudulent transactions, buys protected natural areas or even acquires them in the public interest. Thus, one of the main objectives of the land fund manager, the support and delivery of farmers, can continue to be guaranteed in the future. Given the fact that the land is for farmers! The majority of sales contracts for agricultural land sold during the programme have already been subject to mandatory suspension and pre-emption procedures provided for in the Land Traffic Act, so it is also necessary to declare the closure of the programme at legal level. In the same way, we consider it important to provide for legislation on the fate of the central budget revenue of HUF 260-270 billion from public auction sales which are well above the normal local level. In view of this, the land has been submitted to the farmers before this House! On the one hand, the proposal for a parliamentary decision on the Programme, which declares the success of the land sale programme and the fact that the auctions have been completed, on the other hand, sets out the purpose of the use of the revenue generated by the State. In the wake of the parliamentary decision proposal, of the two legislative amendments tabled in accordance with it, the land for farmers! The bill on the Programme declares that there will be no further land auction. LXXXVII of 2010 on the National Earth Fund The bill amending the Act also sets out a new target of use for State revenues from land sales, which complements the current objectives, as set out in the proposal for a decision. This is nothing more than a reduction in public debt. Dear House, The government clearly stated that the proceeds from the sale of national assets can only be used to improve the situation of national assets. It shall not be used to operate, live or finance current expenditure. Government debt is currently on a declining path. The purpose of the Cabinet is to continue to reduce Hungary's debt by staying on this track. One of the tools of this debt reduction will be the land for farmers! A significant amount of public revenue generated by the programme. In doing so, we can achieve the goal of making the proceeds from the sale of property for the benefit of the entire Hungarian nation. The reduction of public debt increases the sovereignty of our country, increases our economic room for manoeuvre and also reduces the vulnerability of our economy. This is in Hungary's national interest. It is important to note that the use of public debt reduction is without prejudice to other professional objectives set out in the National Land Fund Act, for which NFA continuously uses the resulting land-use revenues. This is the result in the interests of Hungarian agriculture. For the sake of fairness, it is my duty to inform you fully that the proposed amendment to the National Earth Fund includes a further provision which also serves to protect land that remains state-owned and will be transferred to the future. In particular, by prohibiting the imposition, provision as collateral or the creation of a share of land belonging to the National Fund of Earth, with limited exceptions of public interest. Mr President, Dear House, The proposal for a decision and two legislative proposals before you therefore clearly demonstrate and declare the success of the land sale programme, at the same time the closure of the auctioning of state land and the protection of land remaining state-owned and in the future, while providing for the purpose of using state revenues from the land sale programme. I highly recommend it, and I ask the Honourable Parliament to discuss the proposal for a resolution and the two legislative proposals on the basis of the reasons given, and since no amendment has been tabled, I hope that it will be adopted by a large majority after the hearing. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-10-14-87	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, It is now time for the speeches by its representatives. In the first round, the speech will be held by the lead speaker in a 30-30-minute time frame. The lead speaker of the Fidesz Group is Mr Sándor Farkas. I give you the floor, Congressman.
u2016-10-14-88	Thank you very much. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Secretary. In 2010, the National Assembly adopted the National Land Fund Act by a fundamental majority, which sets out the modalities for the exploitation of the state's land assets and which allows the sale of part of the state's land under certain conditions. The National Land Fund Management Organization has been selling land continuously since 2010, and from 2014 the sale of land of less than 3 hectares has accelerated until the autumn of 2015, the land for farmers! Until the start of the sale of land, the Hungarian State has made about 5 thousand land sales of less than 3 hectares. From autumn 2015, the government announced a large-scale land sale programme in view of thousands of land purchase intentions at the National Land Fund Management Organisation and the initiative of the National Chamber of Agricultural Economy and Magos. A programme that allows the land to be truly owned by the man who cultivates it; it contributes more effectively to small and medium-sized farmers than any previous measure to strengthen their agricultural position, and it has contributed to farmers and farmers who can actually cultivate them, in areas that are difficult to use, fragmented, largely shared by private property. [[17.20]] The sale programme therefore aims at a much higher proportion of land covered by the National Land Fund than at all times and a large proportion of land sales is aimed at developing viable agricultural holdings into competitive family farms. The government's determined goal is to achieve an 80% to 20% share of the small estate, which is greatly contributed by the current programme, with 65 per cent of the auction buyers buying less than 50 hectares and more than 50 per cent of the buyers buying less than 20 hectares of land. The land for the farmers! The biggest and most successful public land distribution programme of Hungary since the change of regime. During the land sale programme from October 2015 to August 2016, nearly 20 thousand auctions were made by government offices and staff of the National Land Fund Management Organisation. In addition, more than 35,000 public land of less than 3 hectares were published in public. At the auctions, some 180,000 hectares of land were sold, while some 16,000 hectares of land of less than 3 hectares were sold. So nearly 70 percent of the land for sale was sold. It is an important achievement that nearly 30,000 farmers could acquire property as a result of the program. The land for the farmers! With the closure of the land sales of the programme, the State will continue to own over 1.6 million hectares of land, which will continue to grow in the future, given that the National Land Fund Management Organisation will spend approximately HUF 2 to 2.5 billion annually on public land purchases. Finally, it should also be pointed out that the government, as we heard earlier in the Expoze, intends to use the revenue generated by the sale of land to the State for HUF 260-270 billion to reduce public debt, thus helping to reduce public debt below 70% by 2019. However, its use for debt reduction purposes is without prejudice to other professional objectives set out in the National Earth Fund Act, for which the National Land Fund Management Organisation continuously uses the resulting land-use revenues. Returning to some thought and with some figures confirming what results were in the programme, what sales prices and to what extent these lands came to the new owners, some thoughts about this. In the framework of the programme, about 70 per cent of the land announced was found, and the state sold 195 thousand hectares at an average price of 1.4 million forints/hectare, which is close to the national average of 850 thousand forints/hectare in 2015. It can also be assessed, and I think it can be concluded that these sales are far, I could say, above market prices, so the squandering that often affects and attacks pro-government representatives by opponents is not a real finding. During the auctions and the sale of land of less than 3 hectares in public tenders, about 30 thousand farmers acquired and acquired land. In the case of a customer number of 30,000, given that the registration procedures have not yet been completed, there may be a difference of up to 1000 due to, inter alia, withdrawal or non-payments. There are examples of this, unfortunately, at the moment. Young farmers were extremely successful in the auctions, since 1219 farmers were under 40 years of age, who bought 2424 properties with a total area of about 50,000 hectares. 99 percent of the auction buyers bought less than 150 hectares of land, which means more than 8600 land. 65 percent of the auctioneers bought under 50 hectares and 50 percent bought under 20 hectares, and only 9 percent of the auctioneers applied for or bought in areas over 100 hectares. The highest purchase price at the auctions was quite different, so there were outstanding cases in the country, in my own constituency, but I mention this number, this outstanding purchase price, which was more than HUF 7.5 million per hectare. On average, the people who participated in the auctions purchased two real estate units. Ladies and gentlemen, In the legislative package in front of us, the government closes the land auctions, spends the expected HUF 270 billion to reduce public debt, which can be found in the package presented. By October 10, 2016, the sale of land over 3 hectares was paid in total on the basis of my figures for HUF 63 billion. During the sale of the land under 3 hectares, the purchase price came in for a total of 4392 pieces of land, with a total value of HUF 5.3 billion. Here is a problem to be mentioned. I think that the reality is that commercial banks have tried to impose certain difficulties, try to push up the dates and deadlines, which I think we cannot afford, and we must insist at the statutory level that these deadlines are respected, otherwise these landowners cannot be acquired in bidding through auctions. Ladies and gentlemen, The two draft laws before us and the parliamentary resolution proposal are supported by the Fidesz-Hungarian Civic Alliance Group, and I ask my fellow Members to make a similar decision in their vote. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2016-10-14-89	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, The lead speaker of the MSZP Group is Mr Zoltán Gőgös. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2016-10-14-90	Thank you, Mr. President. First of all, I have a point of order, Mr President. The author of the resolution proposal is Mihály Varga, and I do not see the representatives of the Ministry of National Economy in this room, which is strange enough that someone makes a parliamentary decision and then leaves it to someone else, if you will. It's not that...
u2016-10-14-91	Congressman! You know because you're an ex-Secretary of State [[Zoltán Haughty: Yes.]] that government representation is necessary, and that Mr Bitay is entrusted with the government's representation. You may proceed, please.
u2016-10-14-92	It's probably in line with the rules, but it's still weird. And then I'll start with problems of a technical nature or with the functioning of Parliament before I get to professional matters. Now that we have a parliamentary resolution proposal and two laws. The normal world would seem that Parliament would adopt a parliamentary resolution giving the government the task, and then the government would submit the bill required by the parliamentary decree. Here, at the same time, we will, and it may even be, a strange situation in the vote, that we will vote on the bill sooner than on the parliamentary resolution proposal on which it is based. So I don't know what this circus is for, because this parliamentary resolution proposal is completely unnecessary. So in Hungarian, the two laws came into force, the two laws that the parliament should otherwise authorize or order the government to do. So I think it's a bit of an idiotic look for Members, and I'm sorry, too many of us aren't here, so not many people take it personally, but it's true. So what's with the parliamentary decision? Secondly, it is written in a parliamentary resolution that a general debt reduction should be made on the sale of the rural assets, instead - and this is where the role of the FM would come in, if the VM were still in its name - it should be strongly protested, Mr Secretary of State, that the money that comes together from the assets of rural areas should not be spent on the rise of rural areas. And it's a very, very bad saying that there's a debt to be settled here under previous governments. The debate on closing accounts has just been held, so it is exactly the case: in 2010 the volume of public debt was lower than in 2015. So who did this high government debt thing? So I suggest, beyond the fact that there are a lot of problems with the bill that regulates this, I say I would object on behalf of him no longer on behalf of the Ministry of Rural Development, to say that he should let go of such an opportunity, and that the Minister of Economic Affairs should instruct the Minister of Rural Development what the money can be spent on. [[17 .30]] So that's my first problem. And then I would stay on this line: the other thing that my fellow Members have said here is that we have adopted the NFA Act as a fundamental law, and it is clearly stated in the NFA Act why it has become fundamental: it has become fundamental because the Fundamental Law, the Basic Law, which is granite-solid, amended seven times in two weeks' time, is about or provides that any provision relating to the nation's property is fundamental. So I am already indicating that the law that is the third in a row to turn revenue into public debt... because the other part of it, that it cannot be burdened with national assets, I feel that with mortgage law and anything else, it is not, but just because there is such a line in there, it is still the cornerstone of its first point, so we should accept it by two thirds. Now, since they know that we will never give our names to this, they will now play it, as in many other cases, but obviously there have been cases where the head of state has listened to it, or if not, we will turn to the Constitutional Court. The Constitutional Court has clearly stated, by the way, and I do not know how seriously its decisions are taken to buy land from the proceeds of the sale of state land and agricultural land. So even though it's being modified on the move, it's like going backwards... it could be that if it was accepted by two thirds, it would be possible to do so from subsequent sales, but it can't be done in relation to cases that have already been dealt with. Now, from now on, obviously, the whole sale hasn't made any sense at all. The second is: I regret that you were not here during the debate of the referendum law - although the Secretary of State pointed at it and has already said a few times what papers we have handed down - there are 181 thousand certified signatures in front of the House for a referendum initiative, and if I now take seriously the Government Party's statement that there is a politically successful or valid initiative, there is a legal one, then it can be assumed without further delay that the 181 thousand is already a politically successful initiative, because it is very, very close to the 200 thousand, even if I do not start to argue why more than 20,000 signatures have been thrown out now. I told you here on Tuesday, but now I don't want to repeat how you handled, say, the National Election Office, for example, the control of personal numbers, how you didn't take into account the fact that there was real will on those signature collection sheets, and you've already put out the arches because, for example, a number was replaced in the personal number, which could otherwise be corrected in any other legal case, even when you parked, if you type a number of license plates. So I'm just saying this because it was said here in the debate at the time, but it didn't turn out that the bill that actually closes this process makes the referendum initiative useless. I will offer you a solution: let us give it a try, the House will accept the referendum initiative, let it go, adopt this bill, which will close this land for farmers! After the sale of the program for auction, the government will submit to the Constitutional Court that he feels that the referendum has become obsolete, and the Constitutional Court should decide, not the Fidesz majority, whether there is no cause for a referendum or not. Because this bill, this is the one line of which says that the auctions will be stopped within the framework of this programme, is nothing, it is not nearly the same as what is in the referendum initiative to prohibit the sale of state land. If the government finds out in two weeks that it's not a land for farmers! It's going to be a program, but let's say, "Earth for the big owners." It will be a program, then another program, within the framework of which the auction will be continued at any time, regardless of this law. I therefore believe that this should be done in any case, because the procedure would be correct. The other thing is that we did not initiate a referendum against this for nothing at the time, we said that this type of sale of an active tool for rural development is in no way in the interest of the Hungarian people, and I also asked here - right here, Mr Rétvári State Secretary - who, for example, gave Fidesz the authority to do so in any election. I don't think so. I have not read a line about this in any of the pro-government flyers, and even this, even the appearance of this type of sales, has been constantly protested from opposition. I could recall various large host meetings where they protested, because they said someone was selling land - by the way, it was a purchase, not a sale, but now it's independent of what I'm saying. So they didn't have any authority to do that - because here they said that there wasn't enough authorization for 180,000 signatures; well, much more than KDNP had to close the shops on Sunday, anyway. So these are the cases where you do have to ask the people, and not just in matters that the government or the Prime Minister makes up. To make sure that everyone understands that the referendum initiative that they are trying to conclude with this law is exactly the same legal status as that of the head of state or the head of government or the government itself, because that is what the referendum law is about, that a referendum can be initiated by the government, by the head of state or with more than 100,000 valid signatures. So I don't think there's anything to argue about here, whether it has relevance now or not; if there was a little decency in the current government, which obviously doesn't exist, that wouldn't be a question. The other is about implementation, since we have ground-breaking colleagues here. It was constantly said that locals should not raise prices - I was at a lot of auctions, and that has happened - because they can take advantage of their pre-emptive rights. Ladies and gentlemen, there is a mass problem with pre-emptive rights, because the NFA has only issued a paper to one of the parties in Veszprém County, for example, that I asked the Ministry whether these contracts are subject to land law, or that there is a special legislation coming from space. To me, the Minister replied that if the legal declaration is correct, then the resident citizen, in particular the local citizen, has the advantage over the buyer, who lives 30 kilometres away, but has set up an auction site there. The practice is not this, because the legal statements have been submitted - I have spoken to the president of the Chamber about this, he claims that it has not been written on it that he is a Hungarian citizen. This is what the NFA wrote back for the complaint, after the land office had already registered the land - however, the NFA does not indicate to the Land Administration that it has been registered, but decides and gives it to the Land Administration on its own authority - this is what came from the NFA: in connection with the acceptance statement made by you concerning such and such landmark number, I inform you that it was not able to prevent the contract buyer. But why not? I do not think that all the farmers who live in Hungary should be so stupid - we have heard about it all the time, what a great thing it is and how they help and help farmers in Hungary - they deserve more than that. You can't play by not saying anything, and I'll put it on the record, because it's gonna be a crowd of lawsuits, because we told you that we're gonna give you serious legal help to get rid of all these lawsuits, even if someone hasn't written that they're Hungarian citizens. For example, there are rules in the offices between administrative rules that they should not be asked for, because if someone submits their ID number or personal number - regardless of their ID number - then the offices should settle among themselves who is who now, if there is such a dispute. But I don't think that's what this is about. This is simply a matter of winning the lands with kissers, and then they refuse to acknowledge that others could buy them, including foreigners. What was the big line? To see how many foreigners buy land here, and then we'll be curious, because if you use this NFA, this case-law, then all of them, because there were records of residents there. But it is simply amazing that although it is in the law that the declaration of rights should be notified of taxes, there is also how long it takes, and they receive virtually nothing, nothing. They're waiting to respond to the legal statement, and they'll hear from the Land Administration that the land was registered to the auction winner's name. I do not think that this should be treated so loosely, because this is going to be a huge problem and there are huge debates, and they usually make these huge mistakes against the people who actually live locally. The other thing that creates a huge problem is rent. The NFA does not inform the current user, with whom it has been contracted, who the buyer has not collected the fees for this year, at least until today no one has received the invoice, and a practice that I am now telling you is widespread in order to impress everyone on how much chaos has developed in this story, not only by getting started at all, but also in the implementation of the 200,000 HUF rents, demands per hectare - do you not think that it is normal? - with no expert opinion attached. [[17.40]] It's supposed to be nothing, isn't it? But the legislation is done in such a way that regardless of the lack of expert opinion, the current user does not react within 15 days and does not go to court, then he has to pay the rent of HUF 200,000. And it's supposed to be the idea of someone close to the government to do it this way, because obviously one expert wouldn't write it down anywhere to pay a rent of 200,000 forints. Once again, this is because they promised to make the legislation possible to raise rents - which, in our view, is unconstitutional, retroactively interfering with bilateral relations - and then, after it appears that this is not very successful, they want to play out that they are not complying with their own rules. This is going to be a huge problem again, and I would like to say it now, because no one needs it, especially for the population, who will receive food more expensively because its intermediate players have introduced a circle into this system that can't take possession of its land for 25-30 years, and I don't think they want it for 200,000 forints, because 200 thousand forints profit is only coming out of the area in a very, very good farming environment. So I think you can't just go through these cases. And the joke is, to me, a minister writes back something other than what his office does. So you shouldn't do that. The other is that you buy the NFA land, didn't you, the Secretary of State? Well, he did, yeah, he did, too. Otherwise, I will not leave the matter if you are very bored, especially Mr Pintér and Mr Polt, who give conflicting answers to my written questions, because there is no sane explanation, Mr Secretary of State, that in 1998 we will take back an area sold at an auction for 3 million, 10 hectares in 2014 under pre-emption rights for 11 million and then rent it back to the same person from whom we took it back. This isn't a typical case, is it? And when they write to me that they don't want to investigate, because the NFA has made a valuation - they know that that's why they want to shut down the people involved in the Sukoro case, because they're attacking their own valuation? Can't we do it once, can't we? But it's not that, I knew exactly that he was assigned a forensic expert, and I also knew what he wrote because I knew him well, he made me know what the problem was. I asked the minister to give me this expert material then, because I'm good at it, see if there's anything I can do about it. He wrote back that I had nothing to do with that. But I was lucky enough to have the Attorney General write down what the expert described. Only $6 million was lost by the state, Mr. Secretary, on this one-bit petty transaction, $6 million. He wrote down a price of 4.9 million. And despite that, they still don't want to investigate. Now I have rewritten and even attached from the same area the land that NFA is now posting is not a 1 million per hectare pasture price, but 200,000 forints for sale. If I take it as a basis, the state didn't lose $6 million, but $9. Now, I believe that there are very good friends, and that gentlemen like to steal small ones, not just big ones, not just billions, but at least this is what the people understand. You can't do that, there's no such thing, so don't have such a pre-emptive right to live where the tax-paying citizen falls and someone's pockets get a lot of money! And then there's one more problem. He writes down - thank God, the Attorney General was very sensitive, so I asked for the expert opinion again, because who knows what else I can find in it - that it was very difficult for the expert, that it was public land, and that it was rented, because it could only start from comparative data, because it had not been cultivated for years, and it was a neglected area. Now, I asked Mr Pintér if the police had signaled the NFA, for example, after having such an expert opinion in their hands, or if he had done so to the MVH, for example, that he would withdraw EU subsidies and launch an anti-fraud investigation. Now, this isn't gonna work. So this world is a disgusting, dirty world, and it's not helping the peasants, it's helping the kissers, as it helps the kissers on Hortobágy - I just filed a criminal complaint today about damage to nature, damage to the environment, cheating treatment, and sloppy treatment. All I had to refer to was three on-the-spot visits, which, fortunately, I documented with written questions and photos, three times in the last year and a half, and a Kehi material, in which it was clearly described that the national park had ignored everything in order to win only those whom it wanted to actually have criminal consequences. Because it says that almost all the winners have provided false data, aware of criminal liability. I don't know how many prosecutions the NFA has started. I've got three cases of home address fraud, and I don't know how it's gonna end. It's a petty matter, but you do feel that EU funds of between 150 and 200 thousand forints per hectare have been applied to fraudulently acquired land, don't you? This, I don't think I miss it. What is missing, however, is that there was such uncertainty on the ground market - I was also talking about it at closing hours - that no one who is a normal producer simply wants to invest in me because he is afraid of not knowing what he is investing in because he doesn't know what kind of rules he will operate under. Now, these laws don't mean anything, and they don't help us. Not to mention, I don't know what kind of text they were looking at in the '50s, or maybe from older books, more like the '30s of Germany. This should not be done, so I think that we should now turn back to the policy of sanity and not destroy the one who wants to work and help, who actually wants to work, and not rent it, say, Kaskantyún, to a shepherd who lives three villages away, but should leave the one who has done this. And I should have left it on the Hortobágy for those who have done this. Secretary of State, you may not take the court's judgment or decision seriously, which is not a judgment, but a suspension order, but you do admit that it is a rather serious description that the whole land lease exercise violates the UN anti-corruption institution? This has not yet been described by the Hungarian court. You might want to think about why that is. By the way, I know for a fact that the whole thing was done with 40 percent of the face points, and they're gonna make whoever they want a winner, and then there's no legal remedy. Not in this state of law, Mr. Secretary. So this whole land business, the way it is, is a plague, a dirt; it's a good thing they don't want to go on anymore. By the way, I don't think you should have even started. We have made it clear that the point of this land is not to put it into the hands of gas mechanics, roofers, other goldfishers. I asked the Prime Minister here in the walls of the House if he would lie under the knife of a golden scalpel surgeon. 'Cause you know what that would mean? That he'll be trained in cardiac surgery in two days. For anyone who receives a certificate of agricultural education for his money in two days is guilty of a huge crime, which is issued by those who leave this legal environment. It's the same living organism as anything else, once it's destroyed, it'll never happen again. That's what happened in Kishantos. And I have to mention the man we buried yesterday, I'm sure this case had something to do with his death when he was 66, the Bolye Feri, who was the warrior of Kishantos, did it... [[Dr. Bitay Márton Örs: Really?]] - Yeah -... he did the whole folk college system, and then they destroyed it with a feather stroke, because it was written that it couldn't be removed from biological cultivation for a year, and it couldn't be chemicalized, and two weeks later it was plowed up and tested. Has anyone been held responsible for this, Mr. Secretary? I don't think so. And that's exactly what the court brought in on this case. And don't be mistaken, they always refer to expired contracts and why they weren't prepared for it. They applied in the same way, with 20 years of organic farming practice, for a 400-acre area under organic farming. And they're glad that it's ten people's now. Ten people have ruined 20 years of work that we've done on the basis of Danish and French examples, and half the world has come to wonder. You have to see what's in there, what's in the corn, what's in the corn and how weedy the corn was. But they don't even care about giving at least the appearance of the same level of cultivation. So those hogs who just handed out the fields with a crowd of them, who were even like the Ripper Lawrence, who didn't even realize that he was a hundred acres over the bid, and he didn't count for 60 million forints. 60 million forints is a lot of money, a lot of decent peasants would probably have bought land if they had 60 million. He doesn't even realize he's losing $60 million on grief money because he's outbidding himself. What kind of country is this? There's a helicopter flying by the state leaders... Otherwise, it wouldn't have hurt them sometimes, when there was a spray helicopter, now it's gone, because from there you could see very well, especially the inland areas. That's just not what this was about. [[17.50]] So, Mr. Secretary, don't be so proud of this. Don't be so proud to make decisions with such wording. In this, he may say, 30,000 people have benefited; I think nearly 10 million have been wronged, because the last tool that could have been used to create a normal world was removed from the system. It says that they started because of the 80:20; now that my fellow Member has become Government Commissioner of Mezőhegyes, at least write down that instead of 80, there are 79,5 plus 20.5, because there are half a percentage of fields in Mezőhegyes, which saw that 400 jobs would be lost if a normally functioning company had been destroyed. Do you know how many of these were destroyed in non-state-owned areas? The only reason they beat him up is because they have two more years of leases, and they don't get any development money from the banks. Are you sure that's what this was supposed to be? I don't know if you've read the strategy that's been posted on the website, the food strategy for the next 50 years. That's got 9 million pigs written in it. Who the hell's gonna keep 9 million pigs in here if they pull the equipment out from under everyone? ! Not nine, not two. Who will keep a dairy cow if the areas are maximized in 1300 or 1800 hectares? All research is about the fact that more concentrated production is good because it has significantly less environmental burden, because it produces the same product with half the number of animals and half the amount of feed and greenhouse gas emissions, which has been proven in the world. Fifty years ago, there was an average of 2,000 liters of a cow, and now it's 12,000. That cow doesn't eat any more than 50 years ago, and he doesn't do anything else; I'm not telling you what else he's doing here; he burps back, let's say, because he's ruminant, but that's greenhouse gas, I'm just saying. So we should pay close attention to this, Mr. Secretary. Don't ruin everything. Be brave. Release the referendum, at least to see if the surveys that showed an 80% majority to reject it are true. They know that it doesn't matter how many people leave, because what matters politically is how much is the majority; it is certain that there would be a huge majority, because that's what we've seen, of course, for the signature, we just need people not to be afraid, because no one had to fear us, but there's a fear here that they can't imagine. One day you will have to try it in disguise, as King Stephen; or King Stephen, but King Matthias, pardon. So, of course, we do not support any of the proposals, and I think that is not surprising. But I'm also asking you to stop at least this farce, to make the same parliamentary decision and the same law that it regulates at the same time. This should not be done because it also questions the seriousness of Parliament and the seriousness of my fellow Members who have Fidesz, if they allow it, because it is not a normal world! The other: think about it, protest, protest against this use of money, which is well written out so that everyone will have it; there will be no one-nothing, there will be two or three stadiums - at least they will whistle at the Prime Minister - but otherwise there will be nothing else, yeah, and a small train to rise, let's say, the EU, but I will be curious about what they say about it. By the way, there is news here today again about what projects have won here and how, and we should also pay attention to that. And the other is, obviously, that an infringement of this kind, such as what the NFA is doing, that it doesn't notify those who made the legal declarations, in Hungarian: it puts it on the heads of the peasants, so it shouldn't be done! At least take them for granted and take them seriously. There's still time, otherwise we wouldn't have to take these laws to the vote. But the other thing is, if you're really brave, let go of the referendum, submit this law that you're adopting - because it's obviously adopted, because it's a half law to close a case - and then let's go to the Constitutional Court and see who's right. Thank you so much for listening. [[Sallai R. Benedek applauds.]]
u2016-10-14-93	Thank you very much, Congressman. You asked me, I answered whether you could be represented by Secretary of State Bitay. I would like to read the transcript of the Deputy Prime Minister to Mr.László Kövér: for Mr.László Kövér, President of the Parliament, Budapest. Mr President, I would like to inform you that the land is for farmers! H/12232 on the Programme The Minister for Agriculture shall also represent the Government at the parliamentary hearing of Parliament's parliamentary proposal No. Budapest, 2016. X. 10. Sincerely, Dr. Zsolt Semjén is Deputy Prime Minister. Thank you very much. [[Zoltán Pride: Thank you very much.]] Now we are going to give a keynote speech to the KDNP Group. I give the floor to Congressman László Földi. Here you go, Congressman.
u2016-10-14-94	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, Of course he doesn't pay attention, he doesn't have it! I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm This was the answer of an elderly peasant that, during the harvest, an acquaintance of his did not turn carefully on the tablet, leaving a small part of the harvest on the feet. More than 30 years ago, I heard this story, but I still have an earful of sommal explanations. Of course he didn't listen, he didn't - it was the simple truth that guided the government's side when it was possible to envelop, although in their intensity it was surprising, he bravely launched the land to farmers in the face of the attacks on the opposition! A public land sale programme, a program similar to that which is of similar importance in Hungary can only be found in the historical distance of the past. The collectivizing madness of communism still has an impact that public property belongs to everyone, so no one really feels it. We all know that the older ones even remember that the violent construction of the estate system, the planned and depraved looting of the Hungarian peasantry, destroyed thriving small farms that had achieved great success and high productivity with hard work before the World War. The burden of this past was the burden of agricultural policy decision-makers of post-system change governments when they tried to rebuild the Hungarian estate structure. Unfortunately, the governing alliances of the pro-Communist socialists and of the metropolitan liberals who did not know anything about agriculture have chosen the worst solution. Following their blind faith in the omnipotence of the market and the money world, they gave the land not to those who cultivate it, but to those who want to speculate with it. This has been changed by the civil government of the national side, which, with the overwhelming majority in 2010, has put the system from its head to its feet and the land to its farmers! By publishing a program, he wanted to put the centuries-old principle into practice so that the land belongs to those who cultivate it: the family farms, whose structure we intend to increase to 80 percent. They are the Hungarian peasants, who are more likely to be on that machine twice, but they do not leave crops on their feet, they pay attention, because they own the land, they own the Hungarian land, which we hold with this program in domestic ownership, despite the fact that the land purchase moratorium of foreigners expired in May 2014. We have achieved historical results, in addition to this, in the strong opposition of the leftist opposition, which sees the last straw of Brussels bureaucracy and political escape on the ground. We therefore have reason and right to summarise the results of the programme. The three proposals discussed by Parliament now conclude this land sale programme. The T/12230. Bill No.3 allows the amount of land recovered from NFA land to be used to reduce public debt. T/12231. Bill No. 1 declares the land to the farmers! The approval of the Programme and the closure of the auctions under the Programme. H/12232 The Parliament invites the Government to close the auctioning of state-owned land and to use the total amount of revenue from auctions to reduce public debt. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, The land for the farmers! The program is more than auctions, a series of successful transactions. A series of important measures that are of direct or indirect importance to the development of the fate of all Hungarian citizens. [[18.00]] Many may not even assess the importance of entrusting the Hungarian land to the care of Hungarian peasants who live where they own new property, not only for tender or business purposes, but also for honour and honour. I know that many people do not hear or recognize the significance of this good news from the metropolitan tavern of everyday public debate. As a fitting saying goes, standing in the middle of a corn tablet, the border is not visible. This is why it is important that we have the opportunity to discuss the land for farmers here in front of the general public of Parliament! The results of the program. We use the proceeds for public purposes, including the reduction of public debt, so ultimately we use them for the benefit of all Hungarian citizens. This is the truth, or, if you will, this is the historical justice that gives hope for the survival and recovery of the Hungarian countryside. The KDNP faction supports the adoption of both the resolution proposal and the two draft laws, and please do the same. Thank you for listening. [[Dr. Márton Bitay is clapping.]]
u2016-10-14-95	Thank you very much, Congressman. The lead speaker of the Jobbik Group is Zoltán Magyar. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2016-10-14-96	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Mr. Secretary. It was amazing listening to all the wonders you've done here with the state land. It's been a long time since I've heard so many slips and lies, so it was definitely worth mentioning. He started by saying that the NFA Act was voted by the majority of the Hungarian Parliament, with the exception of the Socialist Group, everyone at the time, if I remember correctly, in 2010. That was true, but to set this as the basis for state land privatisation, it's a pretty strong slide. At that time, those concerned by the government did not mention in one word that they would otherwise take advantage of the back door of the NFA Act that you did not accept the then amendment of Jobbik, which would not have been possible if the current land privatisation had been adopted, because then my colleague Géza Varga and I registered an amendment which would have prohibited this process. Then we received the oral reply from the author that it is unnecessary to accept this amendment by Jobbik because it has absolutely no such intention for the Hungarian government to imagine that the Fidesz-KDNP government will sell state land, which has always been interested in buying state land, and would like the Hungarian State to be able to take a greater part in shaping rural life, and, therefore, by what other means can be the easiest way to do this than, by increasing public ownership, by increasing public ownership. It wasn't about selling state land, it was about the opposite. At numerous farmers' demonstrations, at several professional events, it has been said of the various levels of government that state involvement in this area needs to be increased. Behind the numbers you've told me, Secretary of State, you have to see the reality. What you've said is clearly factual, you're not going to trick with numbers in this way, and you're going to fake data, but the point is that these numbers didn't tell you. [[Dr. Bitay Márton Örs intervenes.]] Even I wouldn't assume that about Secretary of State. After all, if you look at the other side, if you look at who got the big fat bites, and what their relationship with local or national government actors is, apart from the many small pieces of land, you can see that the large pieces of land, the valuable land, are in the hands of a very narrow, well-defined, close-to-government circle. So, of course, in the statistical sense, fixed with a few hectares of land, it sounds quite different, which was presented by the Secretary of State. And who, and why, has asked for the sale of state land, we have been talking about it here in the walls of the House. For me, what the Chamber of Agriculture or Magos asks of the government means a lot, but it does not mean that the Hungarian farming community has asked for it. A few percent-chosen agricultural chamber and a Magos, whose leaders sit in fat positions in your benches and have long since forgotten the host interest representation, in their opinion, which obviously did not come on their own, but was inspired by a government opinion, I would not make any equality marks between the host society and them at all. And the opinion of the Hungarian people, Mr Secretary of State, is well known in this area. Based on the data of several public opinion research companies - I am talking about the electoral camps of all three major opposition groups - there are well over 80 percent of those who condemned state land sales and did not want it to happen. Even among Fidesz voters, there are 85 percent of those who said it was an act of reprehensibility. So we know people's opinions in this way. But if you didn't see a poll as a credible enough source, then it would have been worth considering that this referendum initiative, which Zoltán Gögös is writing on it, would really be worth letting go, and then we would get a real figure on what people think about it. Of course, there would also be a question of effectiveness, as the 50 percent was apparently not even jumped by a referendum on which nearly 20 billion forints were spent and whose campaign took place in the last six months. Now, not condemning it, but comparing it with a possible opposition referendum, I just mentioned the numbers. There is an interesting contradiction here that the size of the areas sold by the state is now many or few. We are talking about perhaps 4 percent of the country's total production land, which, if you feel like it, Mr. Secretary of State, you are saying is a madly great act and a huge benefit that you have done towards saving and raising the Hungarian farming community, and if you feel like it and think it is more useful, then you are talking about a petty, minimal soil compared to the whole area, which is completely unnecessary to excite opposition representatives. So you're doing this very well, depending on what we're talking about or what's in your best interest. However, this area, away from the fact that there are many or few, would certainly have been enough to create meaningful jobs in these areas. It would have been enough to embody the ideas expressed in your national rural strategy, i.e. to have a social land programme launched by the government. I didn't come up with that either, and this was a proposal from government benches in the neighbourhood of 2010, which Jobbik would have considered and supported. Or where is the demographic target programme that was also intended to be launched on the basis of public land? They are avoiding his name, even though, once again, in the national rural strategy, there would have been an important, prominent aspect. But where are the needs of the municipalities? We are saying that good-looking Members - not only me, a number of fellow Members, will tell these stories - have been approached by Fidesz municipalities to try to lobby you in the direction of buying state land for their job creation programmes. You - I do not have to say, Mr Secretary of State, you know better than I do - have been completely isolated from the municipalities, both the current needs and future needs will be quite difficult to meet in this way. What else could a public land be more fair than that of laying the foundations for a local job creation programme in line with the local authorities? I am also extremely concerned that we should spend the money we receive for any other purpose, not to catch up with the countryside. If this land has already been sold, I also believe that it should be used specifically for the development of the countryside. In a normal country, the Minister of Agriculture and the Secretary of State would resign immediately if he could not achieve that such an amount - indeed a huge amount - would be pumped out of the countryside and not spent in the same place, not for rural development purposes. This whole self-destruction of the wallet, I really find that unacceptable. There will be no further auctions,' said the promise, which is included in today's law. There may not be auctions, but they are already trying to loosen or loosen the current regulation so that public land can no longer be sold without a tender or without a public tender, but they want to increase it to 5 hectares. I understand that the Fidesz faction may have been decided in principle. [[18.10]] It is not, therefore, that the sale of public land actually stopped, only by a different method, in an even more difficult way to control, but it is already moving towards a relaxed framework to maintain the land sale process. The question of Stromones: Secretary of State, it would have been very nice and good to sell the land in terms of what you have set out as a goal, if, for example, the stromone system had been filtered out in time, and, indeed, in addition to the values, the sales would have been carried out in line with the policy guidelines that have been put in order here over the past year and a half, but this system would not have excluded the stromones, but would have remained explicitly hidden. In many cases we had suspicions and probable cause, we indicated, let's say, towards the prosecutor's office, then the answer comes to order, a multi-page answer, but it can be translated in practically two sentences: they do not have a man, and they do not have any understanding of earth rights, and they do not want to deal with it. We have already mentioned what will happen, the land leases were also mentioned... - although you can say, Mr Secretary, that since most of the land is sold, this is not a current problem, we would be very interested to know whether the great promises are being kept, and as long as these areas have been used in the framework of the public land lease tender, whether the tenants have complied with the legislation. Can the Hungarian Parliament receive credible information about this, or even the Committee on Agriculture? So they also listen to a lot of great things about this. I, too, find the two-thirds issue amazing. They also made it clear in the vote of the NFA Act that some parts of it are fundamental because they are decisions of a scale, partly based on the Fundamental Law, which require a serious mandate to change, and which they intend to give with fundamentality, to ensure. We totally agreed, we didn't vote for a reason, and now one of his most important paragraphs, namely, what you can spend the money on, are trying to regulate it in a cheap-ass law. It is quite obvious that this will not be met, and if a fair decision is taken, because obviously, if it remains so and is signed by President-in-Office of the Republic, then the opposition will turn to the Constitutional Court and expect a decision to be made that would otherwise comply with the Fundamental Law, and which, I am sure, must say that this can only be amended by a fundamental law. It was said here from the mouth of my fellow Member in KDNP that one of the main arguments for selling state land was that they were not paying enough attention to it because it was not theirs. I have never heard a serious complaint about state landowners that would justify or make this recognition general. I have seen in my own example what has also been said in the walls of the House, that, say, in the case of Kishantos, which has been operating in an excellent eco-economic quality for 26 years, the tenants, the new owners and tenants were practically destroyed a few weeks after the appearance. All previous values have been discarded, and I have to say that we have found monocultural cultivation there, almost corn, with chemicals and fertilizer, which was the opposite of what we have seen there in recent decades. We would also like to know how much the Hungarian State has failed in this whole transaction - by which I mean the management of state land in general - because by 2010 the Jobbik faction supported the NFA law again, because we considered the treatment of former state land, the previous practice to be extremely bad, and we thought that a new approach, according to the text of the NFA Act, would do good in practice, could make a positive difference for both the common good, because then these areas would not be used by a few former degenerate landowners, but indeed, as the NFA law and the argument at that time would be used by locally living family farmers. Instead, in practice, we can see that neither the accounting of the previous cases has taken place when the State has actually used these lands for an unjustified minimum rent, the State has used these lands, nor in the new system these principles have not been applied. In this way, I think that the sale of state land in this way was completely unnecessary. Secretary of State, in the last year and a half, when this madness first opened up, perhaps in the summer of last year, it was the first time you heard about what the government was up to with the state lands, since then we have not received one sound argument as to what has changed in the government's thinking over the past few years. Why has the state suddenly become a bad farmer, why has the permanent lease suddenly become bad, why has all the noble goals that I have listed suddenly become a social, demographic and municipal goal, why has it suddenly become completely uninterested, and why has it suddenly become the four percent land assets that remain in the state, too much to try to enforce the real policies of property policy? We didn't get the right answers. If it really was to help the local family farmers with this program, then they really chose one of the worst solutions, because this layer does not have the right capital to buy these lands. I know that's what Secretary of State will say that's why they've developed a credit facility. Believe me, Secretary of State, that these people, who needed public land the most, cannot and do not want to be indebted for two decades, they had the right to receive these public land through a permanent lease lower than the market, and if the conditions were met, they could even adjust to this land in a way of life. That's what this four percent area you've privatized could do. No one has contested the fact that there were many headaches on the part of the Secretary of State, many attacks by the opposition. I'm not talking about that right now, but I really should have used a more viable, larger area in this way. These were the most important reviews I wanted to tell you. I am not taking the full time frame because on Tuesday there was already a debate about the Socialists' referendum initiative, which was practically within the same framework, and besides the fact that Mr. State Secretary was not here, we had already discussed our problems with the system at the time. However, there is one thing I still need to draw attention to. It was a very positive surprise to me that a tough judge, to put it this way, finally stood up and said what the majority of Hungarian farmers are feeling, and which the opposition parties have often said, what is the problem with this whole estate policy and land privatisation. In second instance, in a lawsuit between the Ekogazdaság Kishantosi versus the National Land Fund Management Organisation and the Hungarian State, the judge proposed the annulment of a number of laws of the NFA Act. I do not list the points here, but it also objects, among other things, to the fact that land privatisation was not transparent and would like these points and sections to be destroyed with retroactive effect. What I think is worth mentioning here is that, for example, the United Nations Convention against Corruption also finds this area to be in conflict with the four points of the Judge and the Hungarian Fundamental Law, which you have done, so I hope that a little bit of hope not only for Kishantos, but also for all those who would like to know these areas in Hungarian state-owned again. I do not have any illusions about the impartial, independent functioning of the Constitutional Court, but it is certainly a bit of a ray of hope, and I hope that the next time we talk about this matter, we can say that we need to rethink the whole system, because you have privatised these areas in a visible way, more precisely, in an opaque way, and that is why we need to create new legislation, and perhaps even a government who takes what he says seriously can come to Hungary. [[18.20]] By the way, all you have to do is implement the national rural strategy that you promised and prepared at your time. If it had been taken seriously and implemented, we should not be talking about the closure of the sale of state land, but about the most effective means for the Hungarian state to intervene on these lands, so that rural Hungary does not become a curse, rather than describe the circumstances from which the young people want to flee, but it is true that Hungary, which is worthy of the Hungarian characteristics, is able to present a positive vision of itself in the Hungarian countryside. That is why Jobbik is working, and I hope that Mr Secretary of State will also have a way to experience that we have been able to achieve this. Thank you, Mr. President.
u2016-10-14-97	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, The lead speaker for the LMP Group is Mr Sallai R. Benedek. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2016-10-14-98	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, First of all, I'd like to apologize. I thought there was some kind of house-rule change, because when Secretary of State Bitay Márton Örs comes in, the Fidesz faction always yells, so I thought that when he was in there, it might be. This week in interpellation, I couldn't hear my own voice, which is why I took the liberty of thinking that this regulation had escaped my attention. I apologize if it wasn't like that. We have heard a lot here from the Secretary of State on land privatisation, but that was the low point. First of all, in his own field, reading a pre-written text like this from letter to letter, that was pretty much the pathetic category. You obviously couldn't keep all this stuff in your head, so you couldn't have done that. It's really starting to see where the horse's feet hang out most from the beginning. It all started when they trusted the Secretary of State with the complexity of this one who criticized the traff transactions. He was told that if he had done well in the traffs, he would perform well in the state lands, and there he could produce a great deal of results for friends with fidesz in a very short period of time. Well, that's what I needed. The fact that there was very, very much untruth in the speech is not to be surprised again, because we are talking about a person who has been entrusted with this, who has been spoken by a court of law to deceive public opinion and to tell lies. Obviously, I can't resent that, although there are probably some responsible government decision-makers who should reconsider who can and who can't. But in order not to get caught up in the work of the person responsible for this, I am responding to a few things in substance. One of them was thanked by the Council on Property Policy, Mr Secretary of State. Let me ask you, who is the chairman of this council? You thanked yourself? If I remember your last declaration of property, you'll be paid two full Secretary of State because you're running for president of this council. So now you've thanked yourself for releasing the land to your friends. He then thanked the NFA, which I personally appreciated, because I very much hope that once a normal government is at the head of Hungary, the layer of the NFA that assisted this robbery at decision-making level will be there for you in connection with the fraudulent treatment, who have played this land, obviously against the law of the NFA. After all, you know this better than I do, and you often say that the NFA Act clearly determines for what purpose and how these lands can be sold. We have now been able to go through this completely and to assist them to practically Hungarian billionaires, fidesz, all kinds of fidesz relatives and investors. But we still needn't be surprised if he says otherwise about lying. It's not the only pain I'm in, that when you're subpoenaed for lies, you don't show up there for some reason. So it's easier here, because it doesn't matter here, anything can be said here, it seems that the walls of the Hungarian Parliament can handle everything. When we summon him to court, he'll send in a star lawyer who's the very same star lawyer, his legal representative, who otherwise makes sales out of monopolistism for the sale of these cheated lands. Obviously, if you've given a few hundred million-dollar business to a lawyer, it should represent your lies. The last time I saw you, you were welcome in court, where you didn't appear in a court of law subpoena to stand up for what you said. You don't seem to have the courage to do that where you're betting. Let's talk about what lies are. It's easy to talk in horse-zung like they do to small farmers, small farmers. Let's see who bought it. I am also doing this because, among other things, my fellow Member Wolf said that there were, on average, two buyers. Then let's look at a man who didn't have two. It'll be boring, and I'll be happy to hand over the list to the record. Lowcase, 0171, 97 acres were purchased for 168 million. Former tenant: Wheatkalász Felcsút Kft. Low case, 0173, 140 hectares were purchased for 271 million, also the tenant of Wheat Fish. Low case, 0108/9, 36 hectares were purchased for 49 million, also the tenant was Wheat Fisherman. Lowcase, 0111/2, 55 acres were purchased for 68 million. Low case, 0112, 133 hectares were purchased for 161 million, also the tenant was Wheat Fisherman. Lowcase, 0114, 40 acres were purchased for 43 million. A low-cost box of 106/3, 4 hectares was purchased for 7.8 million. So far, it's always the Wheatkalász Kft. He was the tenant. Last real estate in the Low Box, 4.7 hectares were purchased for 9 million 50 thousand forints, also the Wheat Fisherman. Then Etyek comes along with the same buyer's interest. 0162/1, 13 hectares were purchased for 14 million, and now Agrosystem Zrt. is completely accidentally purchased. It was the tenant, but the ownership circle, as we all know, is the same. There's another one out of a lowlife box, 0132, which is 6.5 hectares, and it was bought for 3 million, the former tenant was the Wheat Fisherman. Here comes Szár, 032/1, 77 hectares for 48 million, János Mészáros was the former tenant. Here comes Etyek, 0158, 107 acres for 119 million, and from now on the Agrosystem is back in the saddle, he was the former tenant. Etyek, 0165/1, 53 acres for 70 million. Etyek, 0211/2, 3 acres for 3 million. Etyek, 0221, 21 acres for 22 million. This was all agrosystem season tickets before. Etyek, 0223, 9.5 acres for 14 million. Low case, 099/5, 49 hectares for 72 million, Wheatkalász Kft. He was the tenant. Etyek, 0168, 45 hectares for 49 million, Agrisystem Zrt. He was the tenant. Low case, 0101, 36 hectares for 44 million, Wheatkalász Kft. He was the tenant. Lowlife box, 0103, 63 acres for 99 million, was the customer. Lowcase, 0118/3, 54 acres for 55 million, wheat polish was the former tenant. Slow box, 0123/9. I'm not at the end of it yet. It doesn't seem to be the average two purchases for this family. I want to know how to get the average if such small owners have managed to sell these lands. Low case, 0123/9, 3 hectares, 1.7 million, the Wheat Fisherman was the tenant. Low case, 0136, 6.5 ha for 1.9 million, wheat polish was the buyer. Obarok, 0276/2, 66 acres for 104 million, the Wheat Claw was the former tenant. Etyek, 0187/1, 59 ha for 66 million, Agrisystem Zrt. He was the tenant. Etyek, 0190, 19 acres for 17 million, Agrisystem was the buyer. Etyek, 0201, 3.2 hectares for 4 million 50,000, Agrosystem was the buyer. Etyek, 0170, 32 acres for 32 million, Agrisystem was the tenant. Etyek, 0109, 202 ha for 301 million, Agrisystem Zrt. He was the former tenant. Etyek, 0171/1, 12 ha for 18 million, Agrisystem Zrt. He was the tenant. And finally, Etyek, 0217, 83 acres for 87 million, Agrisystem Zrt. He was the tenant. It's a customer, a family of customers, Lőrinc Mészáros and his family. In total, he bought 1545 hectares, bought 36,000 golden crowns, and spent 2 billion 33 million forints. It's the fidesz estate. This is the typical one you serve, the one you're giving the land to. I would like to know how this can be protected anywhere in Hungary's court, once a normal government takes the case to the point that it complies with the NFA law, and this belongs to the Hungarian small and family economy. [[18.30]] 'Cause it's okay for a family, like the mafia families usually do, but in any case, this 1,500 acres doesn't go well with small estates. But it's obviously the claim that the small owners bought here. Well, let's check out a few more buyers, 'cause so far, they can't give us any facts. Tell me that's how the opposition talks, talks like that, but at the same time, let's look at the facts. So far, they've never listened to us talk about this. The Csákvár Agricultural Company. They bought the most land together, bought 1561 hectares, for a total of 1.9 billion forints in Fejér County. In the second place, Lőrinc Mészáros and his family bought 1544 hectares for 2 billion HUF 33 million, as I just said. Dr. Barna Forgács and his family bought 1076 hectares in Debrecen for HUF 1 billion 43 million, the Carpathian-Garai family bought 1070 hectares from Bácsalmás for HUF 1.5 billion, Péter Claesses and his family bought 917 hectares at the Somogyszobob. The leaders of the Mezőhegyesi Ménes estates would have bought 889 hectares for 2.4 billion, but as we know, some of it is no longer there, they will be eliminated from the sixth place on my list. Géza Csomai and his family did not fall out of Bánd, but bought 829 hectares for 631 million forints in Veszprém County. Dr. Sándor Kalmár and his family bought 812.8 hectares in Szolnok for 667 million in Jász-Nagykun-Szolnok County. Almássy Adorján and Zoltán bought 803 hectares in Mezőfalván for 1 billion HUF 333 million in Fejér county. Dr. József Varga and his wife bought 794 hectares in Szekszárd for HUF 2 billion 404 million. György Tibor Osvay and his family bought 729 hectares in Lucky for 918 million. József Ruisch and his family bought 683.6 hectares in Pápa for 911 million in Veszprém County. Róbert Gárdonyi and his family bought 673 hectares in Dégen for HUF 1.2 billion in Fejér County. Álassy and Dr. Süveges family in Eger or Eger family bought 658 hectares for HUF 506 million in Heves County. Kopiári Károly Köpiári Károly Szerélyes became the 15th place with 650 hectares, and he spent 978 million on the ground. Gyula Kovács and his family bought 649 hectares on Szeghalom and spent 606 million on the ground in Békés County. László Túri and Lászlóné Jászdózsán were able to buy 606 hectares in Szolnok County for 740 million. József Weak and his family bought 602 hectares in Apátfalva as 18th place, spent 909 million forints in Csongrád county. Péter Kirinovich and his family bought 586 hectares of Adony for a total of HUF 775 million in Fejér County. Imre Kovács and his family bought 565 hectares in Sárbug for 953 million. Dörr Marcus Bük, bought 551 hectares from Europe for 889 million forints in Vas county. Lóránt Szaykó and his family bought 550 hectares in Győrújbarát for 1 billion HUF 49 million in Győr-Moson-Sopron county. János Tóth and his family bought 548 hectares in Szolnok for HUF 815 million. István Sojnóczki and Csanádpalotán Márta bought 547 hectares in Békés County for HUF 1.6 billion. Andrea Vadas and her family bought 539 hectares in Kecelen for a total of HUF 1 billion of HUF 90 million. Eppel Krisztián Péter from Budapest, because here you can farm well, bought 534 hectares for a total of 639 million forints. Péter Lengyel and his family bought 526 hectares in Martonvására for 738 million 750 thousand forints in Fejér county. Attila Urbán and his family bought 514 hectares in Nagykun-Szolnok county for 1 billion HUF 68 million. Walking Zsolt in Veszprém County spent 510 hectares on 29th and 717 million HUF. And the 30th, just so I don't bore you and don't read the list, Zoltán Besenczy bought 501 hectares on Szarvas for 387 million forints. I think it was a good buy, and most of it was bought in Csongrád County. This is the first 30. It's the fidesz estate. That's who you supported. Are these the average people you're talking about? ! I read the first 30, and practically the least of the customers spent 380 million. Do you believe that, in the spirit of the NFA Act, the family estates benefited from this sale? They're talking about helping the little ones, but I showed them an interest in the family of Lőrinc Mészáros, and I showed them the small estates factually, so that they'd be safe in the record, because they're okay with what I'm saying. But you say they didn't give the land to the Fidesz. Lőrinc Mészáros, I do not know if I have to prove anything, the mayor of Felcút, is a close friend of Viktor Orbán, and what I have told you is the brother of Lőrinc Mészáros, János, Lőrinc Mészáros's wife, Beatrix, one of the daughters of Lőrinc Mészáros, Ágnes, the other daughter of Lőrinc Mészáros, Beatrix, and so the family comes together. István Tiborcz, son-in-law of Viktor Orbán, bought only 299 hectares for HUF 330 million as a Hungarian small owner, but it is not possible to say that he is not close to the government. Eszter Vass, fitness coach, the dear wife of a former Fidesz State Secretary, bought 271 hectares for 281 million, also as a Hungarian small owner. Sándor Kékessy, a family decorated with Viktor Orbán from Jász-Nagykun-Szolnok County spent 270 million on the modest 170 hectares. János Flier and Tamás Flier, manager of the Orbán lands, recently built a cattle farm, partly with these subsidies in Felcsú, which the Prime Minister personally inaugurated, bought 188 hectares for 285 million HUF. After all, with the modest 58 hectares of Balázs Győrffy, the wife of one of the initiators, the frontman of Magos, dear colleague Sándor Farkas, also modestly. The family of Minister Lázár, János Lázár, János Lázár, the uncle, Károly Gyapjas, will appear, his cousin will appear, Mária Gyapjas will appear, with János Lázár's cousin József Légrádi, together with the spouse, spent 753 million in total on a modest 138 hectares. Péter Bekecs and Mátyás Bekecs are one of my favorites, the sons of the cousin of Minister of Agriculture Sándor Fazekas were also among the largest winners of state land leases, won 255 hectares, and now managed to buy 252 for 174 million. For their results, let me say that they were the ones who were able to buy land per hectare for 186 million forints, bought a body of land, about 50 hectares for 9.5 million, because obviously many other people could not bid on it after they had given it to him for 20 years. Szabolcs Fazekas's interest, also a favourite of mine, my country compatriot Tomajmonostora's mayor, elected with Fidesz support, is an excellent friend of Mihály Varga, Sándor Fazekas, and with his family he already had 382 hectares of land rent, now 220 of his modest small town mayor's salary, I don't know what we're talking about so that they don't earn well, he could spend 83 million forints on the ground. György Szilágyi MOL CEO, one of Zsolt Hernádi's CEOs, managed to buy 252 hectares for 287 million. I can say it right here. In fact, let me say one more favourite thing: I love Tibor Flag because he is also an official of the agricultural chamber, and he is a front fighter of the GMO-free Hungary Association. Well, they're Mezőfalvi Zrt. With its interest, they were able to buy 907 hectares for 1.5 billion forints. But in the same way, we can see in several places that the former dirty 12's former shoppers, the kidnappers, were doing well in the sales. Let me say one more favourite thing for our friends in Somogy: János Ágh and his family were able to buy 367 hectares in Bábonymegyer as Fidesz-supported municipal representatives, with excellent party relations for HUF 280 million. There's a lot of these pages, I don't want to bore you, but if someone says there's no fidesz interest in them, it's okay to face these facts, which are also here with the charts that I like to present to any of you, if you're interested. But let's look at one more thing, because when Ferenc Gyurcsány gave the autumn speech, it was one of his favorite fidesz rhymes that the liars cheated, the liars steal. I'm not saying this because I just said it was final about Mr. Secretary of State, I wanted to say something completely different. I would like to mention, in particular, the person of Prime Minister, that he said such things before - or I don't know - the change of state in 2010, before the change of regime:. I would like to reassure you that the future of the Hungarian land does not depend on the decisions to be taken in Brussels. It's all up to us, and it's up to us. And I can tell you that you can be sure that, as long as you are on the Fidesz government and my work is there, foreigners in Hungary, whatever they decide in Brussels, will never buy land here. That's what Prime Minister said. Those words were spoken at a Magos general assembly. [[18.40]] Well, let's look at some of the names of the customers. Schieber Marcus bought 382 hectares, Albert Schieber, I think only 18 hectares, Alic Zurijet - apologies, many foreign names, I'll say them badly - 18 hectares, Frangmeier Hans-Egon Friedrich Eric Fritz with interest in Budapest 11 hectares, Weij Anton Mihajlovics with interest in boats 9 hectares, Roth Hans Helmut with interest in kömpöc 3.2 hectares, Pálné Fápos with German spouse 175 hectares, with obvious connections, Cosic Pavo Siklóson 59 hectares, Geebelen Johann Mosonmagyaróvár 101 hectares, Meixner family with interest in Rajkán 276 hectares, Albert Neumann Hegyeshalom 191 hectares, Pifneils Katrin Maria Sopron, 186 hectares, Scheiblhofer Johann in Mosonmagyaróvon, and his family in 16 hectares in Surrounded by Erymier. I just want to say the easy-to-read ones so my tongue doesn't have to break into it. Joseph Henri Peter Sevrien Janssen Bugyin 274 hectares, Pizzocheri Francesco and Matteo Mombán 211 hectares, Peter Claessens and his family Somogyszobob 917 hectares, Michael Frühwirth in Nagykopárd 42 hectares, Dörr Marcus Beünk 551 hectares. I'm not gonna go on, because I'm partially broken in, and I don't want to suggest that I have any problem with the Fidesz guys who bought me, the big owners who bought me, or the foreigners who bought me. The problem is not that, but the stupid decision making and the government that creates the opportunity for billionaires and foreigners to buy the state-owned, joint Hungarian-owned land. All the foreign citizens on two more sides who are here can all be the best people in the world. They may contribute to the development of local communities one by one, and, by the way, they are hardworking, decent, good people as EU citizens. But one thing is certain: no Hungarian small farmer can compete with any of them, to whom the NFA law would allow him to buy from these lands. None of them are competitive with these, just as they are not competitive with the otherwise certainly successful Ripper family. And the question is, even with the first thirty who bought the most, are they competitive with any of them. This was the result of the auction system on the bidding platform. That's how you gave your friends the land, so you could give the land to the big owners and the foreigners who bought it. I've got detailed lists here one by one. No one from FM has stopped arguing with me so far in a public place to record it in the media, and we can compare our data. Tell me the PR data that your communications write like your speech, but they can't back what they're saying with facts. Why the judgmental decision that my fellow Member Zoltán Magyar spoke about has an important impact is very simple. For example, in the case of the Ripper family, I read the tenants because before that, he was engaged in the rental system. Obviously, the goal was to make sure no one else bid. Don't make any sense for anyone else to participate in the bidding. When all the land is tied down to Wheatkalász 66 Felcsút MG Kft., Agrisystem Zrt. and János Mészáros, who is the average person who can shop there? Who's gonna buy you here? That's why the whole field privatization was born in sin. Because if you had a very little decency, and you felt bad about saying words such as fairness and others, you wouldn't have made a tender system in front of him, you wouldn't have tied down the land for 10 and 20 years, but you would have done it to put it out for sale, because it's so important to you. But no! First, the lands are tied down in a corrupt system, about which my fellow Member Zoltán Gőgös said that the Hungarian court was able to establish violations of international anti-corruption regulations, and in such a system, the land is leased in the long term, and then there is no one who has reason to buy them or do anything with them. Where does all this lead? Let's look at the experience. Mr Secretary of State and my fellow Members of the Fidesz spoke about the importance of the distribution of small estates and the importance of the distribution of small estates for Fidesz. They say that we have taken a huge step in the proportion of the small estate to create 80-20 percent. These are regularly said, although no one, a fidesz politician, has ever told us what the small estate is and what the great estate is, never in a golden crown or in a hectare has a single named what the 80-20 is that they have moved towards. But let us now look at Hungary on the basis of area payments. We were able to see 2013-14 as closed, only statistical data on what Hungary's estate structure looks like at the moment, and I am not yet in the field privatisation, just what it looks like. Out of a holding over 5,000 hectares, it could still be, in the year in question, 17 requested area payments for 2.6 percent of the total area. Between 2000 and 5000 hectares, 153 applications went in, 374 applications between 1000 and 2000 hectares, 622 applications between 500 and 1000 hectares, 769 applications between 300 and 500 hectares. I don't know how much I should go down there, because we might as well say I can stop at 300 acres. But the fact is, the person I've told you so far has almost 60 percent of the total area. Well, is this the small estate they're talking about? Look at your own stats and don't lie about it. Let's see what this means in this country. I quote to you specifically the feudal soil conditions of 1935. In 1935, 1.7 percent of the holders owned 55 percent of the total land. 6.2 percent of the holders owned 69 percent of the land and 15 percent already owned 80 percent of the land. Now let's look at the data in Hungary, we have the data until 2014, then how it was distributed. 4.8 percent of the landowners owned 60% of the land, or they didn't own it, it's an inaccurate term, they used it. Sixteenty-four percent of it already used 81 percent of it. And 83.5 percent of the landowners shared 19 percent of the land. It's a fidesz small estate policy, and that's what we're talking about, that we need to move away from it. Now let's see, after all the data is now publicly available, what the result has been, where the policy that Fidesz has helped us to privatise the soil. Let's look at the results of the purchases. Three people bought over a thousand acres. From 500 to 1000 hectares 25 people bought, from 400 to 500 hectares 15 people bought, from 300 to 400 hectares 32 people bought, from 200 to 300 hectares 110 people bought, from 100 to 200 hectares 291 people bought. I'm not going to detail all the rest because under a hundred hectares, let's stay in it, fit into a family estate, and in their case, we don't have to assume at all, although we don't know how much they had before they bought 99 hectares. This means that as a result of land privatisation, 15 percent of the holders bought 63 percent of the land in total expansion. That's the fact! Contest me. Let's get some data. Let's project it. In fact, 48 percent of the landowners were able to buy only 33 percent of the land, and 38 percent of the land had 3.8 percent. To sum up, 63 percent took 96 percent of the land. Their statistics, which are regularly announced, are about those who bought land below 3 hectares by way of the offer, thus offering public offers and bidding for buyers between 3 and 5 hectares. Well, you don't have to hurt them. They're the ones who can leave the land. For all the others, it is important to consider whether this whole sale was carried out in the spirit of the NFA Act. Because, basically, the specific data doesn't support the government propaganda that they lie about these small owners and family farmers. In fact, the large estate structure was further strengthened, the land was sold to Fidesz and foreigners through land privatisation, and most of it was purchased by large owners and investors. Once again, I would like to stress that the customers are not the bad people who have taken advantage of an opportunity created by a stupid government. No, the customers are not, to the slightest extent, those who bought in good faith, but we can't assume that everyone has good faith, because there were those in their benches who might have seen that they would be able to buy and supported it. [[18.50]] I can say here the full role of Magos, who betrayed the Hungarian countryside, who deceived and deceived the entire Hungarian countryside, and in the events of 2005-2006 it sank to the point that, with this glorious fall, it became apparent that he did not want to represent anything else but the interests of his own great estate structure. This has resulted in what Fidesz-KDNP is now representing, and Fidesz-KDNP is currently serving in Parliament through its government. My last thoughts in this speaking round, based on statistics: Customers connected to Fidesz are 30 percent; 30 percent of those who have been able to invest over 100 million; almost 10 percent of foreigners have been taken; one who cannot be identified, the MVH data does not show his data, he has lost 10 percent; nearly 20 percent of those who are real small farmers and have been able to buy a few hectares of land out of loans. This is the result of this program we are talking about. In a next speech, I would like to continue from here, if I may, Mr President. Thank you very much.
u2016-10-14-99	Thank you very much, Congressman. This brings us to the end of the keynote speeches. It is now possible to make a two-minute speech. I give the floor to MEP Zoltán Magyar from the LMP Group. Here you go.
u2016-10-14-100	Better, but thank you for the floor, Mr President. This is why, Mr Secretary of State, there are quite specific accusations and facts and figures on the part of all three opposition speakers, so it would be very good if the Secretary of State took the liberty of responding to it in the meantime, and we do not want to make the usual mistake that the Secretary of State has the opportunity to try to disprove what has been said here only in the closing words, because this would be a rather incorrect behaviour. If this public land-privatisation was so good, then the Secretary of State could really be so brave to try to respond to them, because then this could be a substantive, real parliamentary debate, which would light the spirit of democracy here, among the walls of the House, which is very much needed. So I urge the Secretary of State to respond to these. Thank you, Mr President.
u2016-10-14-101	Thank you very much, Congressman. There will now be further speeches by Members. Mr Sallai R. Benedek spoke again. Congressman, I would like to inform you that your timeframe is 15 minutes. Here you go.
u2016-10-14-102	The first time will be enough, and then I'll continue. Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. I would like to continue from where I left off, since we should practically look at your statements about land privatisation, said and represented. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Farmers are better off because they don't have to pay rent. 'That's what they said as an argument for sales.' Technically, this was a lie because for those who had no capital and could not put in a 5-10 million share after a 50 - hectare land, the rental system was much better. As the association of young farmers indicated in its communication, it would have been significantly better to maintain the rental system. The main reason for this would have been that it could have been linked to employment and valuable commodity sectors, while now they did - as in many cases it is apparent that the tenants bought it - exempting customers from the obligations they took on as tenants. Everyone there has lied about everything, huge livestock, huge employment, good for the countryside, and then money for the rural people. Everyone's done their business plan, you've scored these business plans well, and then bought them, and everything jumped. From now on, you don't have to employ, keep animals, do nothing, just produce and hire support. So that was one of the serious lies. Here's what I'm gonna tell you: "The government protects the land from foreigners. I don't think I have much to deny this statement, but that's what the Prime Minister said earlier. Compared to this, the results clearly show something else, which is rather sad. It's gonna be a public auction that everyone can take part in. I obviously have experience in this regard, since I have been to many auctions. All I can say for sure is that at least now the PDFs are up. It was completely out of order, so it was a month and a half, two months of work, while from the pdf to tables and from Excel, we completely debriefed the customer database. So I call it a lot of things, but not transparent, but it is certain that the bidding system has made a significant contribution to this, so that it is not possible to see what is happening in the country, and at the same time there has been a lot of sales in many places. The economy will be strengthened. It was a lie, you forced the little ones into loans, while those who had money could shop in peace. The argument did not stop at all, and so did the experience. Only the small part of the land is sold. In comparison to this, it was not up to you, but you tried to sell all the material land that was suitable for arable farming, and a significant part of the NFA was written out for this; it was not up to you that you managed only 70 percent. There were lands that were announced twice or three times, so they did everything they could to get rid of the Hungarian land as far as possible. The protected areas are not affected by the auction, they are protected by the state. This claim was not true, Natura 2000 sites were sold. Natura 2000, as you well know, and we have already managed to exchange ideas with the Secretary of State about this, it achieves an EU level of protection on the basis of the European Union Birds and Habitats Directive, and if the Hungarian legal order distinguishes it from national protected areas, it is essential to lose or lose important natural values in relation to the measure. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. The measure facilitates the small and medium-sized estate system. I think I don't have to make any further arguments about this, I've read out who bought most of the land. So you have made a very, very small contribution to this. By selling land, they wanted to put real farmers in a position - absolutely a lie. They put people in a position who, by the way, do not farm themselves in a way of life, who own the work, who practically give the job to employees, and that is not what I saw in Sándor Fazekas's communication about it, that the land belongs to the man who does it. Yes, let the land be owned by the man who cultivates it, Sándor Fazekas, Minister of Agriculture said in the text "Experiences of the Land Auction," the land for farmers! It's downloaded from your website. So it's not about that. The land belongs to the man who made a lot of money. You have practically restored the serf system before 1847, because by putting the base loophole into the earth traffic law, to which my fellow Member Zoltán Gögös referred, you have made it possible for tractors who sit on the ground for 80-90-100-120 thousand HUF, up to 150,000 a month, who are farming the land, do not necessarily have the right to obtain it, because they themselves cannot use subsidies and do not necessarily have to have a secondary agricultural degree. And when they will be able to go to a comparative host course, and when the elite will let them in for these trainings, they will be able to see it. The land did not belong to the man who cultivated it, but to the man who had capital and who could employ those who cultivated the land. The demand for the sale of land in society is a powerful public will, and there are very, very many requests. In comparison to this, it was obvious that 30 percent of the land remained, and in a large part of the bids there was a bidder, a former tenant or a gentleman with fidesz who was not very successful or too afraid to bid against. The farmers are the only ones who can get to the ground. This was also clearly refuted, Fitnickers, investors and lawyers bought land, who practically managed to obtain this gold-cage host course to register them as landowners, farmers, and thus acquired acquisition rights. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. The government just wants to follow the little farmers' traditions. The reason I like this argument is because the Citizen Kisgazda Association itself, along with its leader in a group with you, has said that it does not think this step is wise, and it is in fact possible to think a lot about the traditions of the small farmer, but it should also be said that a significant part of these lands has never been small farmers, has never been part of small peasant farms, as my fellow Member László Földi said. We're basically talking about the remaining state lands of the feudal estate. This is a very, very important factor in this, because as a teacher, as a scientist, please tell me, looking back over the last few hundred years in Hungary's history, when the Hungarian crown or state did not have land. When was it that you had to give away all the land? Practically the food security, the strategic security that could be created for Hungary's citizens, especially non-producer citizens, was played and released from this land at the moment. This was the land that could have been used to create jobs in rural areas, and could have been created, from a national security point of view, without prejudice to Hungary's food supply, which is ready to supply Hungarian society in any situation. "There will be no stealing," said he, "the land will fall into good hands. I've read some thoughts about it, I think I'd rather not add to that. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Land privatisation increases the population-preservation power of the countryside. - I know that the rental system started in 2011, but since 2010 there has been the statistics that I have already said in the system of the closing accounting law. The result of your work is that agricultural production units under five have decreased by 15 percent in Hungary since 2010. You destroy the little ones and put them in the position. How do you do that? By saying that even Márton Örs Bitay, State Secretary for Lands, said on the NFA website: "The productive land, the forest, the field, the wildlife contain values that define biological and Hungarian landscapes that can only be managed responsibly. This can only be assured by the state's task. That's what Márton Örs Bitay said. [[19.00]] I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Only the state's provision of tasks can reassure you. After that, the National Land Management Organization is responsible for the professional exploitation of all national-owned land, nearly 2 million hectares. - That's what's in this quote. Well, he's gone a long way. But here is Gyula Budai, the Magosz federal director, who said in 2008 that the government snooping around the sale of state land continues. They use hundreds of legal tricks, which is a typical case of abuse of power. '"That's what Gyula Budai said in the Parliament in 2008. Compared to that, he was talking about selling land. And my favorite is Mr.István Jakab Magos, President, who announced here at one of the last meetings of his 2015 spring session before the agenda: "The people living in the countryside would have irreversible consequences if the state land were sold by the government. 'The President of Magos,' said he. Such a shameful betrayal of the Hungarian countryside, as these politicians have done and represented, is very, very difficult to deal with for those who care about the Hungarian land and the fate of the countryside. And where did that lead? This is one of my favourite parts, and I would very much like to give it to my fellow Earth Member, because he might be interested to know what Prince Joseph Habsburg did with the 15 thousand catastic moons when he sat in Alcsút - now he had 8670 hectares of property - of this activity. In 1808 the Royal Prince József Habsburg established the Beauty Commission, which helped to flourish the classicistic architectural style, initiated the development of Pest, not with EU support and such numbed political funds as Fidesz, but with its own property. He supported the construction of a large German theatre and the construction of Lipótváros, the city of Újpest. He initiated the construction of the University Star of Gellért Hill - the observatory. It has promoted the creation of a train between Pest and Vác and the trial railway leading to the Stone Mine - so not such a railway to the boss's house, who doesn't get a helicopter, but a railway, but one that can create public transport. He was a major part of the City Park. He bought his own property and landscaped Margaret Island. With its donations he extended the collections of the National Museum and the National Széchényi Library. He contributed ten thousand HUF to the foundation of the Hungarian Academy of Sciences. He supported and supported a number of progressive citizens' initiatives, thus the Hungarian Economic Association, later the Kisfaludy Society, the Society of Natural Sciences and the Institute of Blinds were formed. He himself noted the first shares of the newly formed Commercial Bank. He supported arts and public education as a generous soccer player - I'm not saying that the high road football team is nothing, but it's different. He urged the first Hungarian institution of technical education, the II. The development of the Ipartanoda, set up in 1782 by Emperor Joseph's decree. In the town of Alcsút, he set up a sample farm and an arboretum in the park of the castle, with over 300 rare species of plants. This is the land we have now given to Lőrinc Mészáros, this is the land that served public goods, not small estates. Now, on and around Lőrinc Mészáros's companies and his family were able to buy this 1500 hectares after the rental system, and thus he added it through the Agrisystem, he could still use 3961 hectares until 2051, so it has about 5400 hectares of land. And where is the public service service provided by the Habsburg family? These were the lands. But here is Csákvár - there is also Csákvár Agricultural Zrt. His general staff, Count Móric Esterházy, had 13,799 catastic moons in Csákvár, so it had about 8 thousand acres of land. He planted the order of nuns named after St. Vince in Csákvár, of course he financed it with his own money, belonged to the convent, he founded and maintained two kindergartens, girls' schools, hospitals, poor houses and orphanages. There's a list of fives that I don't want to bore you with, maybe you're familiar with the family's activities. The Csákvár Agricultural Company. Chief of Staff of the former... The Csákvár State Economy was established on this estate, now it has been fully transferred, it has rented 1829 hectares of land, and now it has bought most of it in this area. So you can watch the public service and see what it does! In Baranya County, Prince Frigyes worked on approximately 24 300 acres, which was 42,000 catastic moons. There, Sándor Csányi is now working on approximately 25,000 hectares, so they are a little over the territory of Prince Frigyes, but we can see that Sándor Csányi is a little bigger than a royal prince, right now in Hungary. Prince Frigyes owned this area in Baranya County, based on his biography he played a significant role as a mecenary, he played a role in military territory, he financed a significant part of the Austro-Hungarian Monarchy's army, he was a dedicated believer of Emperor Franz József and carried out public tasks in all areas. Most of the land of Frigyes is Bóly Zrt. through Sándor Csányi belongs to his lordship at the moment, so he took over these lands. That's what you're helping, this fidesz farm. In Lepsény and its surroundings Count Lipót Nádasdy was farming on 2218 hectares, which was at that time 3837 catastic moons. In 1848 he remained a believer in the national cause, for which he was practically imprisoned, and a significant part of his assets were taken away. He then lived retired, contributing a significant amount to the establishment of the Pest Rendezvous. This belongs to the Mezort group belonging to Zsolt Nyerges's interest, which can cultivate 18 thousand hectares of state land until 2051. This was privatized by Fidesz, and he maintains this 50-year lease. After my time began to be scarce, I would mention Count Tamás Nádasdy's estates in the vicinity of Gárdony, he worked or farmed on 2024 hectares approximately, it was 3519 catastic moons. He founded a school and a printery, supported the castle architecture, strengthened Kanizsa, built the planks of Zalavar, and rebuilt the nearby castle in Renaissance style. He also saw the strengthening of Egervar, Kapuvar, Léka, and Godlord, as well as the renovation of numerous manor houses in Renaissance style. From the point of view of Hungarian literature, his most important protégé was undoubtedly Tinódi Lantos Sebestyén. His estates have been transferred to Tibor Flag, on 9 000 hectares, so they are on approximately four times the size of the estate at the moment. Let's go, Slippery. In Törökszentmiklós, the estates of the Almásy family exposed a total of 4750 hectares, which was then approximately 8212 catastic moons. Dénes Almásy, Imre Almásy and Pál Almásy both dealt with the family economy, which together reached the soils of László Horváth, Minister Mihály Varga and Sándor Fazekas' supporter and friend. I could tell you a long time ago what your bravery has done in the area of the poor care church organization Egri Norma, but then I wouldn't have time to tell the Count's Károlyi family of estates, which is now fully cultivated by Tamás Leisztinger, also thanks to fidesz support, however they speak of anything else, it's practically his interests of about 26,000 hectares. This is the fidesz small estate system. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] That was created, among other things. Thank you.
u2016-10-14-103	Thank you very much, Congressman. A two-minute speech will be held by Mr Zoltán Magyar. Here you go.
u2016-10-14-104	[[Without sound:]] Thank you, Mr. President. I was disappointed to see the Secretary of State still not burning his...
u2016-10-14-105	But put the microphone on... [[Zoltán Magyar puts his microphone on.]]
u2016-10-14-106	Yeah, so I'm disappointed to see the Secretary of State still...
u2016-10-14-107	... Congressman, or else I'm disappointed.
u2016-10-14-108	Yeah, yeah. ...it still doesn't burn, even though we'd really like to hear these answers, even so that we can argue about it on merit. If this programme was so good and can be undertaken, then I think you can really do that, Mr. Secretary of State. We would also like to know if the news that the forests will be the next victims of the government is true, because perhaps it is no coincidence that, in the context of the National Property Act or the Fundamental Law, the amends which were intended to improve were not accepted, if they were adopted, the next victims of your hunger would not be the forests. And I would also like to ask the Secretary of State why, indeed, employment or employment as a condition has not been included once it is a matter of state areas; if they were sold, why could it not have been the common good, let us say, a means of measuring how much jobs we would have created in these sold public areas, because it might have been possible to dampen opposition criticisms. So I would continue to encourage the Secretary of State that this is an opportunity, we are here, we are waiting for answers, we are curious, please join the debate. Thank you.
u2016-10-14-109	Thank you very much, Congressman. I would have given Mr Sallai R. Benedek the opportunity to speak again, but I could have put it that way. Here you go.
u2016-10-14-110	Thank you for the floor, but I would trust that the Parliament will vote in favour so that I can speak for the third time in accordance with the house rules, because I have more to say on this subject, and the House Rule gives me the opportunity to do so. Right now, I'd like to talk about...
u2016-10-14-111	Excuse me, Congressman, the rules of the house decide that it is up to the President to give you the opportunity to speak again. The president has given you the third opportunity to speak, so let's not argue any further, this is the last. You'll have a two-minute window. Here you go.
u2016-10-14-112	All right, then I'll have to tell you every two minutes. [[Defiance.]] But now I'm trying not to abuse the President's patience. I would just like, at this moment, to have the Secretary of State involved in the debate in some form and to join this wish of my fellow Member, Zoltán Magyar. [[19.10]] Because to listen to arrogant lies in a closet, when you can no longer respond, please do not ask that you have to listen to them, so that you can listen to them for yourself and your audience... [[Dr. Márton Bitay: I'm not listening either.]] I understand, but you have to react in the debate, not in a closed manner, because obviously there is a possibility of disproved facts here, and we can compare our tables calmly, only to do it not as a shutter, but act like a man, as his prime minister says, stands up and starts to argue. By the way, we have seen an example of this from his fellow State Secretary today, because in the closing act there was a state secretary who was not a coward, he was not afraid to stand up for his own conviction and opinion, so he did not have to be afraid to be ashamed. I do not know if the closing word has been written, or if the problem is that the text is not written in advance in this debate. Maybe the problem is he didn't get those pages in advance. First of all, let me talk about its closure, because we need to talk about it in the general debate. Right now, as far as we can see, and what this week has proven, there's no closure. You want to do the same thing, just a little more impertinent. 'Cause until now, we've seen who's buying on public bids. Now they would like to see practically in 2013, in addition to the opposition's protest, the size of the space that can be purchased by way of a bid has been increased from 1 hectare to 3 hectares. Now they want to take this up to 5 hectares with virtually total lack of transparency, and from here on out, it is not about closure. The other reason I can announce for myself that our group will not support the resolution proposal in this regard is that this robbery cannot be legitimized by a parliamentary decision, and this fraud, this public property robbery, which has been carried out against the Hungarian countryside, cannot be sanctioned with the support of the Hungarian Parliament. Accordingly, we obviously do not support this. Obviously, we do not support any subsequent amendment of the NFA Act, as the Constitutional Court stated in fact a year ago that the Government decision on land privatisation was unconstitutional in that it could only be used for the purposes set out in the NFA. Accordingly, it could not be used for anything other than strengthening small and family estates. I must say that the capitulation you are making in terms of public debt is shameful. In the course of today, I have read exactly how the government debt increased between 2010 and 2015, and this sovereign debt, which you have sworn to reduce and manage, cannot be treated differently unless the state land is sold, and then Kossuth tér...
u2016-10-14-113	Excuse me, Congressman. [[To Dr. Márton Bitay Örs, Secretary of State, who spoke in the back of Fidesz:]] Mr. Secretary, I'd like to ask you to take your seat. They're talking to you.
u2016-10-14-114	I don't usually care, but thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. [[Dr. Bitay Márton Örs takes his place as Secretary of State.]] Basically, in order to turn it into a sovereign debt, you should be the best at protesting it. After all, my fellow Members, Zoltán Gőgös and Zoltán Magyar said that this could be used for rural development purposes - but would not be an agricultural task? It's okay that the FM has nothing to do with rural development, they took everything away from him, I guess, because he was so competent that it was better for him to be transferred to the Prime Minister's Office, but there's no such thing as water management, irrigation, livestock, the dairy sector, that there's nothing to handle? Isn't there anything that's written in the NFA Act in proportion to the small estates? Of course there is. And what does the FM do? Minister and State Secretary Sándor Fazekas stands out to prevent this from getting to Hungarian agriculture. Don't let this money get to the country. They come here as representatives of the FM to prevent the funds collected from being used in the Hungarian countryside. Stealing Hungarian farmers, stealing the Hungarian countryside, you want to be able to do something about the lie promise that you will be able to do something about the public debt, which, as we obviously know, has increased in total since 2010, so that you can show something. This is the hypocrisy that should not be represented, and this proves that, let alone Magos, let alone the Chamber of Agriculture, the FM does not stand up for Hungarian farmers or the Hungarian countryside, and this is obviously the reason why our faction will not support it. I don't know what a surprise this is for the Secretary of State. Our vote in this direction goes in a relatively one direction, and I am sure, and I am very confident that in opposition factions there will be unity in attacking their decision in the Constitutional Court, if they do try to push it through with simple majority law in an impertinent manner, despite the fact that you have written in the Fundamental Law that national wealth management is governed by fundamental laws, and obviously there is much to say about national land assets and related revenue, but not that it is not about government property management. Overall, the ignominious procedure is that five of us are here in Parliament and seven of us are here in Parliament, and so many of us are talking about what could have been the future of the Hungarian countryside, about what happened to the Hungarian land, this is obviously an ignominious end to the shameful course that Fidesz-KDNP has given in terms of rural development since 2010, what it has done for the Hungarian agriculture since 2010, and obviously this is because in no way can be supported or supported by any proposals in this regard. Thank you for the floor, Mr President.
u2016-10-14-115	Thank you very much, Congressman. I will ask my fellow Members if anyone else would like to take part in the debate and speak. [[No one's reporting.]] I don't see any contact. The joint general debate is closed. I am now asking Mr Bitay Márton Örs, State Secretary, if he wishes to respond to what was said in the debate on behalf of the rapporteur. [[For signal:]] Yeah. Your timeframe is 30 minutes, Secretary of State, please.
u2016-10-14-116	Thank you very much for the floor. Dear House, Mr President, a lot of interesting comments were made between the speeches. I'd only respond to a few, if I may. I'm not a constitutional lawyer, but let's put this two-thirds question in order. The fact that the law is two-thirds does not mean that all the paragraphs and all the paragraphs of the law are two-thirds. We're lucky that once you read the NFA Act, you know perfectly well that you're involved in which parts of it are two-thirds. [[Zoltán Grimlock: It's there!]] and which parts are halves. The revenue provision falls within the scope of a half-law. It's not that complicated. You can read the law in the end. All you have to do is compare the paragraph numbers to the content part, and you've already got the result. I would also like to mention to you that it is a little interesting, because somehow I feel that I could have been united with the opposition, that it is a good thing that, let's say, there are 100,000 farmers who can buy agricultural land in Hungary, within the limits of the legislation, and 30 thousand of them buy, I think it is a good situation. I cannot suddenly give an example where a third of the right holders in such a programme can win this programme. I admit honestly that I was thinking, trying to see where to find a program where every third person who is at all entitled to participate in this program can win or participate, can buy from these lands. Member Zoltán Gőgös also raised the idea and many raised the idea that revenues from the sale of state land should have served a rural development objective. I think, Congressman, that there is no debate between us. The global decline in Hungarian public debt as a result of the money thus received is in the interest of rural Hungary. It is a fact that it is not only in the interests of rural Hungary but also in the interests of the entire Hungarian nation. But I think that this is also an acceptable objective in terms of state, national wealth. He also suggested that if we renamed this programme and launched a new programme, it would in fact be excluded from the scope of the law. I assure you that we have no such intention, but I am therefore sorry that no amendment has been tabled in the end, because it could even have been argued that we would then accept this solution with some additional text. There is no such intention, which is why we have written it in the law, not by any other name, or by that name. [[Zoltán Grimlock keeps interrupting.]] Mr President, you also mentioned that it is possible to look for society with various questions not only to raise the Prime Minister. I rarely give examples with Jobbik, but they are currently conducting a consultation, which they call a genuine national consultation. I got the envelope in my mailbox, too. You can look for anyone who has this opportunity, Congressman, for the MSZP, for Fidesz, for the government, for Jobbik, for the LMP; I do not think there is anything special about this. [[19.20]] I just want to say one thing to you, understanding what you said in exercising the right to pre-emption, that there might be a problem with being too strict about the rules. But I'm sorry, the example you gave me, but it's not good, because the exchange of two numbers in someone's personal identification number means that it's not that person, it's another person, or it's not a person. But replacing the ID number or ID number is, unfortunately, the fatal mistake that can't be done because it's such a fundamental condition [[Zoltán Grimlock: You have to report back... You don't just have to write it down!]] I'm not saying any, but a lot of documents, submissions, in which you can't miss this. We need to check 52 times to make sure we got the right ID number. Kishantos has been mentioned more than once. All I would like to mention in this connection is that I myself was surprised, and I must tell you honestly, if I was paying close attention, the plaintiff's side and the defendant's side were surprised that the court, after the court of first instance decided twice for the benefit of the Hungarian State, did not take a decision, but sent the whole piece of legislation to the Constitutional Court, which, by the way, has been in force in Hungary for years. You have the right to do so, at least one fact has become certain in my opinion: that under the laws in force you could not have passed a judgment other than that which favours the Hungarian State. I therefore consider this to be a kind of last attempt to conclude this situation negatively for the Hungarian State. This, we can see now, actually has about one option: if you try to interpret the NFA law and other legislation that has been in force for years. [[Zoltán Grimlock: He asked to be destroyed. You're not asking for interpretation. Destroy it.]] I would also like to make it clear to you, you mentioned - I assume that this was a political sentence, obviously this is allowed, we are sitting here in Parliament - you said that the money might become a stadium. I would like to emphasise once again that it is also stated in the proposal tabled that the budget will use these funds to reduce public debt. [[Zoltán Gőgös: Pension funds! Yes!]] And he mentioned one more thing, which I'm also saying for the record, is that if someone follows this debate on the Internet or later, they will not be informed by the NFA, who eventually didn't win, because they were preceded by someone. That statement is true for you, but the NFA informs the Land Office of all persons who have a pre-emptive intention. In the file-paksamet that the Land Administration receives, there is also a list of unsuccessful pre-buyers, as well as the one who was able to make a successful pre-buy. [[The intervention of Zoltán Haughty.]] I just wanted to mention that. [[Zoltán Grimlock: Then why don't you write back?]] Because we don't want to keep this a secret, the file will be given to the Land Administration, within the systems of the Land Administration, who is interested in it or wants to be informed, it's obviously a legitimate need to find out where he was otherwise placed in the order of pre-emption, so he can do this and find out about it. I would like to thank Mr Zoltán Magyar because he had a few sentences that I felt that I might even thank him for. I thought he said something about having correct numbers in it, that the numbers were correct. I appreciate that in today's debate in Parliament, that at least there is something that we are not reaching for right now, so to speak metaphorically. I'd just like to draw your attention to one small thing. He mentioned that the NAK, Magos, did not consider it a strong initiative. I tried to respond to this in the ministerial exposé - so I apologize to the House for trying to give the dignity of the exposé by writing it down and reading it to myself several times at home so that I could say it nicely here. If this is an insult to Congressman Sallai, then I apologize to him too. But it also states that we have received a demand below 5 thousand 3 hectares, the National Land Fund Manager, which was written by farmers, not only on such cheese paper, but normally on how you would like to buy a location number, when there was no mention of a land sale program. [[Zoltán Grimlock: It doesn't even include...]] I don't want to protect the Magos or the National Chamber of Agricultural Economy, but I feel that from where I sit and watch the world, it was a channeled demand, which [[Zoltán Grimlock: Not the 200-acre...]] they formulated it, and the government then started this programme according to this need. As I have already said, Congressman Zoltán Magyar blamed me for not being wrong about the numbers, but if I wanted to, I would introduce the many, if I wanted to, I would introduce the little, and that might result in a case of slippage. What I'm saying is, let's give you a number that we can be sure is that almost 30,000 farmers have bought. There's no slip, no emotional part, no subjective element. Almost 30,000 Hungarian farmers were bought. [[Zoltán Gőgös: And how much of that is the goldfish, Mr. Secretary of State? Did you check it out? 28,000?]] This is also an objective number, one third of those who could otherwise have bought agricultural land in Hungary. I would also like to reassure the Member that he is banging open doors in relation to the needs of the local government. There are a lot of municipal demands coming in. Well, let's just say it's an interesting thought that Fidesz mayors are looking for better guys [[The intervention of Zoltán Haughty.]] [[The intervention of Zoltán Haughty.]] lobby NFA for municipal property to give land, but I believe you, there may be one, I don't know. We get about a pallet of them every year. There is a part of this that we can fulfil; we also fulfill, we constantly fulfill municipal requests. (The intervention of Zoltán Haughty. ) And it is very important to note that it is about 1.6 million hectares of state land that is outside the land sale program. So what remains is still available, and I would like to draw your attention to the so-called NIPUF institution, which is a separate system, a separate institution. [[The intervention of Zoltán Haughty.]] within the Ministry of National Development, where specifically in relation to municipalities, especially for the purpose of an industrial park - but I understand what you said that there are not only industrial park targets - they channel their land purchase needs with these objectives. You mentioned the cardinality clause, and I tried to give you a reassuring answer. That family farms have no capital and have been indebted to: that is true, but, Congressman, don't be mad at me or the government, that if we offer property to someone, we can do nothing more than offer them credit. We can't give it to you for free. I'm gonna say, emotionally, you might even like this, but that would be a criminal problem. So there is no other construction than to make some kind of credit form. If a person does not undertake this in addition to the fact that these loans were secured for a period of 20 years, with abnormally low interest rates, if one fails to do so, his soul will be on it. The only thing we could do was offer. However, if he uses it and has a land lease contract, then there is no problem, because this contract continues to live the same way, so he can farm the same way. The question is, who is the tenant? I thank Congressman Robert Benedek Sallai for not reading the entire Fejér county landbook, because then we would probably be sitting here long enough, but since he is not here, I would not bore the public of Parliament by answering his questions. I hope that, after knowledge of the house rules, the legislation on land traffic and the relevant legislation of the NFA will be well-educated by the Member. Thank you so much for listening. [[Applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2016-10-14-117	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, The amendments were tabled yesterday, on Thursday, by 16 a.m. We have reached the end of the discussion of our agendas today. It is now time to speak after the agenda. After the agenda, Mr Zoltán Magyar applied for a speech from the Jobbik Group:. Thoughts on the tragedy in Kishantos. Here you go, Congressman.
u2016-10-14-118	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Fellow Members! Let the alarm bells bells bells. / I've got a rope in my hand! / I shudder, but not with fear; / Pain and anger foam into my heart, and I started my speech with Petőfi's quote, because it was a favourite poem by Ferenc Bolye, the hero of Kishantos. I received the unexpected news with profound shock; the loss of death to all of us who knew and respected his work. Feri went out the way she lived, preparing to compete with her friends in the Hantos Cultural House. The people who were there told me he was in a good mood, making jokes. He spoke of his favourite poem, Sándor Petőfi, and then he sat down and got to his heart and died. On 23 August, I had the pleasure of walking to Kishantos and meeting the experts who created the eco-economy. It was terrible to see how the Fidesz-KDNP government destroyed a very high level of professionalism in terms of European standards. [[19.30]] I was shocked by what I saw. The previously cultivated fields, the beautifully maintained roads and road edges were richer, and the varied crops were taken over by the monocultured corn, bordered by a meter of ragweed. The new policy-supported owners destroyed 26 years of work in one day. The popular college and eco-economy, which has been recognised throughout Europe, have been sacrificed on the altar of their vengeful political vendetta and, of course, on the subject. We needed land for relatives, acquaintances, supporters of their party. That's how you immediately replaced chemical and fertilizer-free farming in harmony with nature with an exploitative approach, which is so typical of you anyway. I asked in writing, I asked ministers and secretary of state about this, but there was never an acceptable, meaningful answer. He couldn't have come to this shame you've done. The daily struggle against the tide, the struggle to survive to maintain an attitude, the transfer of the love of the earth and its creatures is such a serious strain physically, spiritually, that many would have broken into it. But Ferenc Bolye and his friends were happy to bear this burden, and they kept on fighting for what they believed in. Instead of supporting this, the state would have decorated this selfless work rather than destroyed it. I dare say that the depraved government move to plow Kishantos not only physically robbed people of the results of their decades of work, but also mentally. The one who met him respected not only his work, acknowledged it, but also loved him humanly. The huge crowd at the funeral yesterday is a good sign of this. They were present in several countries of Europe to say their final goodbyes. Rest in peace, Feri, and we promise that your battle, which you have begun, will not be lost, and the sinners will be punished sooner or later. We share the grief of his wife and family. God reward him for all that he has created and set an example for all of us! It's easy to handle externally against us, / If you take out these inner bastards... / Step aside now, I'm running to the tower, / I'm ringing that alarm bell! - Thank you for the floor, Mr. President.
u2016-10-14-119	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, This brings us to the end of the speeches after the agenda. I would like to inform you that the next meeting of the autumn session will take place on Monday 17 October 2016. Thank you for your work. I wish you all a restful, good night. The meeting's closed. [[The meeting ended at 7:32 p.m.]] Attila Gelencsér s.k.
