u2016-03-07-0	Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, We will begin the 7th day of the Spring Session of the Parliament. I would like to inform you that, in the chair of this meeting, Mrs. Loránt Hegedűs and Attila Gelencsér will be notaries of my assistance. I welcome everyone who is monitoring Parliament's work today. First, we begin our work with speeches before the agenda. After that, from noon to 2:30 a.m. on the questions, then around The hour for immediate questions and answers will take place from 1:30 a.m. to 2:30 a.m. Finally, we will finish today of Parliament with speeches after the agenda. Dear Parliament, First of all, Congresswoman Bernadett Szél applied for a speech before the agenda:. Two-speed Hungary? It's an address. You have the floor, Congresswoman.
u2016-03-07-1	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, We need to stop for a moment because of the government's new scandal that you managed to pull off last week. In two days, a law was violated in the parliament, which increased the salary of the powerful President of the Hungarian National Bank more than twice. While György Matolcsy held his hand at 5 million forints, the other central bank managers did not suffer. The Vice-Presidents increased their salary to 4.5 million, to 3 million members of the Monetary Council and the Supervisory Board, and three times the Chairman of the Supervisory Board of Ferenc Papcsák. He can bring home 3.5 million forints instead of 1.2 million forints so far. Once again, this step demonstrates the immense greed of the government and its slepp, and fits well into the process that started last year by raising the salary of the state's executives. It was, and is, the same unacceptable justification on the part of the government. You claim that I want to make the wages of state leaders competitive and to catch up with Western wages, otherwise the market will suck up good professionals. It is very interesting that, when it comes to leaders at Fidesz, the government is willing to see that European wages and wages are needed, and there is no time to wait 20 years before wages reach Austria. Now, this pace will disappear by magic when it comes to working Hungarian people. If we are talking about the working Hungarian people who carry this country on their backs, then there will be a policy of small steps. Orbán also mentioned them in his assessment, but the present saw them much more gloomy; to quote Mr. Prime Minister: "What Hungary can do today with a good conscience and common sense is that every year everyone can take a step forward. This is the outrageous contradiction, this is Hungary's two-speed Hungary, because as long as there is a policy of small measures for workers, there are state leaders in greasy jobs, where the filling of pockets is already permitted, progress with big steps. Let me quote someone and someone. Find out, Honourable Parliament, especially you, on the pro-government side, who said this not so long ago: "It is unacceptable that, as long as the leaders of state-owned companies put in their pockets, people are living worse and worse. That's what you said back in 2009, when you were still in opposition. They're on the helm, and they're doing exactly the opposite of what they said in opposition, and I think that's a huge brazen thing to do. Let us look specifically at how much Hungarian teachers, doctors, nurses, nurses, crèches and social workers make compared to other countries. Let us see that if we consider everything between the OECD countries, the purchasing power parities, the price level difference, then in Hungary the workers in education and the drivers are hospital nurses. I'm asking you, why is their downtime, their wage disadvantage not hurting the Fidesz? Losing their workforce, wandering abroad, slowly collapsing public services, why doesn't it hurt you? Why are you filling the bank's executives' pockets with money? Why do state executives get the big money? The civil servant payroll has been frozen for eight years. Under the title of wage increase, and I believe that the Secretary of State has already prepared this in his rejoinder, and then he tells us about the appearance of firefighters that are impossible to stop emigration from this country. Don't tell me what happened to the minimum wage, too, because what is true is that the minimum wage gross and not its net has increased by one and a half times, in six years it is 13 thousand forints that actually apply to Hungarian people, all the rest will enrich the state register. We live in a country where you now give the leaders 5 plus 3.5 plus 4, and who knows how many millions of dollars and millions of employees earn below the minimum living standards, and hundreds of thousands are below the poverty threshold in this country. In addition, workers were deprived of the possibility of a legitimate strike. You may not be aware of the poverty of workers because you cannot legally strike in this country. Public services are in ruins, and there is no legal means in the hands of the workers to actually live with the right to strike. According to the LMP, it is not a need for further rule, nor is it a need for you to buy political loyalty with money and spend taxpayers' money with both hands, but a need for wage increases. Don't beat the leaders, give decent wages to the working Hungarian people!
u2016-03-07-2	I now give the floor to the Secretary of State Péter Cseresnyés for a rejoinder.
u2016-03-07-3	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and He gave the answer to the first question when he said that company managers and institutional managers should have a competitive income. When it was necessary for the government to reduce the salaries of these people for executive positions, it took the step and reduced it. In the event that it was necessary to ensure adequate, competitive wages for this responsible work, it also took these steps. I think we can agree that responsible work can be expected for responsible wages. To this end, it has taken measures in recent years, and the government is taking measures that could or may not have meant wage increases in society as a whole, because if we say that real wages have increased by more than 10 percent in Hungary from 2010 to 2015, then you know this number, and you know it very well, because it has been said several times in the walls of Parliament. [[Dr. Wind Bernadett: The state leader has grown!]] But let us look at what has happened in the last one or two years, since the situation of the economy has stabilised, and we can allow wage increases to come to different areas due to the performance of the Hungarian economy. By developing a teacher's career model and introducing a career path, teachers can and may know a significant and continuous increase in wages and wage increases today. The uniforms also received a significant increase in wages, which they receive constantly. Measures have been taken in the health sector that have meant wage increases, and social workers have been receiving a salary supplement for almost a year now in the social field. [[Dr. Wind Bernadett: Then why are they protesting?]] , which is expected to be completed from 2017 with a career model, and this wage increase will continue. But to compare the salaries and incomes of the various countries around us with our own, I would like to give you some information, as it can be said that we are in no worse situation than the countries of the region. [[Rumble in the lines of the LMP.]] In fact, it can be said that the process that started in 2010 shows some dynamism, perhaps not compared to Czech wages, but that is true compared to Polish and Slovak wages. According to Eurostat data, since our accession in 2004, the average Hungarian wage has been increased from 26 per cent of the EU average to 29 to 30 per cent. [[Rumors from the LMP line.]] Of course, it is in euro, and as I said, perhaps it is the Czech Republic that can have better dynamics and indicators, since they have a 34 percent share. [[11.10]] In addition, it is worth showing how purchasing power has developed, as this parities is the most important indicator. This has also increased significantly, because at the moment, if we compare ours to the purchasing power parities in Germany, we can have 40-41 percent. This means that we can see a steady increase here too. As you said, this is due, inter alia, to the fact that the minimum wage and the minimum wage have increased significantly since 2010 in terms of both gross and net amounts, and this has, of course, brought with it the fact that gross and net wages have also increased significantly in the various sectors of the economy. This has been a steady rise in real wages for almost three years now. For example, the last time, the minimum wage and the minimum wage increased by 5.7 percent, and we have been able to announce in recent weeks that the net real wage increase was 4.2 to 4.3 percent in 2015. So you can see, Congresswoman, that when the economy's performance permits, the government and the economy will move and, if possible, raise wages, especially real wages, because the government can contribute to this real wage increase by reducing personal income tax by 1 percentage point from 2015 to 2016 - this has also contributed to a certain 4.3 percent real wage increase that I have just mentioned. So I don't think we should criticize [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] and it should not be possible to meet expectations, but it should also be assessed by you in relation to the strength of the economy. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-03-07-4	Speaking before the next agenda, Mr András Aradszki, on behalf of the KDNP, asked for a speech entitled "Climate Policy Directions," with strong Hungarian responses. You have the floor.
u2016-03-07-5	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Allow me to tell you about a recent international event in the world of energy, and in this connection I will share some thoughts with you. Last week, in Budapest, the OECD International Energy Agency presented its 2015 edition of World Energy Outlook. The annual publication presenting the directions for the development of each energy sector, as well as important and current energy trends, serves as a compass for decision-makers. László Varró, the leading economist of the International Energy Agency, held the presentation on an international level. Hungarian professional has never held such a high position at the International Energy Agency. Through its enjoyable presentation, which takes into account the principles of professionalism to a large extent, the participants were able to learn about the current energy processes of the world economy and the directions for future development. Climate change is the focus of the 2015 publication - one of the most important challenges of our time, affecting all our daily lives directly. Climate change is a global problem with serious environmental, social, economic and political consequences, one of the greatest challenges for mankind. Hungary is making significant efforts to stop climate change. However, not only Hungary and the European Union, but also the whole created world, must make a joint effort. As Pope Francis writes in his encyclical of the beginning of Laudato si, the mutual dependence obliges us to think in a single world, in a single project. I believe that Hungary has acted in such a spirit when, as a member of the European Union, it has made climate protection commitments in the context of the Europe 2020 strategy, the EU climate and energy framework until 2030 or together with the European Union at the UN climate change conference in Paris. To keep mankind well below 2 degrees Celsius the average temperature rise, and by 2050, all new climate-related human activities that nature cannot reproduce require great and combined efforts. Only together can we fulfil our ambitious, at the same time necessary, commitments that are essential to the planet's preservation. Decarbonisation, the transition to a low-carbon economy, is becoming increasingly important at EU level. As no Member State of the European Union can avoid these changes, Hungary will make appropriate efforts to facilitate the transition to a low-carbon economy. I believe that the efforts of Hungary and the European Union will result in the fight against climate change and that we can act effectively against global warming that threatens humanity as a whole. In my opinion, we can say that we are doing everything we can to combat climate change for the future of our children and future generations. As a result, I hope that many of us can continue to be proud of the protected, exceptional natural environment and talents of the Carpathian Basin for centuries. Dear fellow Members, Let me conclude my speech by saying one of the details of Pope Francis's encyclicals mentioned earlier: "Let us be protectors of the world, not looters! Let us be the spreaders of beauty, not of pollution and destruction. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Thank you for your kind attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-03-07-6	I give the floor to Secretary of State János Fónagy.
u2016-03-07-7	[[He's saying his speech without a microphone.]] Thank you, Mr. President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, The cooperation between Hungary and the International Energy Agency has a history of nearly two decades, during which we have closely monitored the detailed energy market analyses of the Agency. [[Dr. István Nagy gives the microphone to Dr. János Fónagy, who puts it on. The sound still doesn't work.]] There is a greater need to monitor the current global political and economic processes and their summaries than ever before. [[Dr. István Nagy gives another microphone to Dr. János Fónagy. The sound's working.]] Sorry, change of lines. [[Defiance.]] That is why we consider the findings of the annual World Energy Outlook publication mentioned by you as important guidance. The European Union's 2030 climate and energy policy has developed a complex framework over recent years, the energy elements of which play a very important role in preventing and tackling global climate change. EU and domestic energy policy has three adaptation points in relation to climate protection: the EU 2020 strategy, the EU climate and energy policy framework for 2030 and the policy concept of the Energy Union. Hungary has undertaken, in line with the Europe 2020 strategy, to increase the share of renewable energy sources to 14.65 per cent by 2020 compared to the 1990 base year and achieve a total energy saving of 10 per cent. I am pleased to report that Hungary is on the right track to meet these responsible commitments. Another important adaptation point is the EU climate and energy framework for 2030. In October 2014, the European Council approved four important objectives: By 1.2030, greenhouse gas emissions in the Union should be reduced by at least 40% compared to 1990 levels; 2. at EU level, at least 27 per cent of the energy used shall come from renewable energy sources; 3. the EU target is to improve energy efficiency by 27 per cent compared to the 2030 forecast energy consumption; and 4.The completion of the internal energy market should be supported by achieving the 10 per cent minimum electricity interconnection target as soon as possible and by 2020 at the latest, for which Hungary has already achieved nearly 50 per cent, and by reaching the EU target of 15 per cent by 2030. [[11.20]] Ladies and gentlemen, The European Union's Energy Union strategy for the transition to a low-carbon economy also contains important guidelines. The Hungarian position is that Hungary intends to achieve the climate protection objectives set and the transition to a low-carbon economy by using technologies based on the use of nuclear energy and renewable energy sources. The government considers climate and energy policy commitments as a priority and their implementation, and will take the necessary regulatory and investment steps in both nuclear and renewable areas in order to fully meet our responsible commitments. Thank you very much for your attention. Thank you, Mr President, for this opportunity. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-03-07-8	On behalf of Mr Tamás Harangozó, on behalf of the MSZP, the next speech before the agenda was put forward:. Undeserved situation, or is this how civil Hungary is built? It's an address. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2016-03-07-9	Dear Parliament, According to Viktor Orbán, the Election Office has developed an unworthy situation. It is an unworthy situation where leather-headed thugs prevent István Nyakó from taking a referendum initiative on Sunday's closing. It is fortunate that Viktor Orbán did not refer to the events that took place there as unfortunate events on Tuesday. The question is, of course, how did this unworthy situation develop? The story began with Fidesz abolishing the existing referendum law in 2012 and adopting this regulation, which the Prime Minister also referred to as the unfortunate one. Over the past year, a country has been paralysing how the law is played out, how people are deceived by fake civilians, by the active assistance of electoral bodies. Then, when it became clear to the people that the MSZP is not helpless, but here a whole system is trying to prevent a referendum from being held, the head of the National Election Office and András Patyi himself officially initiated a change of the law. And look at this: nothing happened again for six months. Last time, on that particular black Tuesday, what no one would have wanted to believe in Hungary happened: leather-headed thugs took over the National Election Office building and by force prevented István Nyakó from legally submitting his question. Since then, this has been stated in the final decision of the court. And what does the government do in the meantime? What did the police do, the D.A.'s office? Nothing, fellow Members. Where is Sándor Pintér? Where are Peter Polt and Imre Keresztes? The Hungarian state is under attack, and they stand by and watch? Do you want a country to believe that in two weeks they are unable to identify and locate a dozen skinheads who have been recorded by the entire Hungarian press and electoral bodies? Do you want us to believe that you can protect Hungarians against terrorist attacks, even when the people identified by the press by name are not found? Or aren't you looking for him? How is it that Marton Gulyás and his associates, who put posters on the NTI building to protest about what happened there, were almost half a department of police officers, and they are already being prosecuted for crimes? And no one's seen the Tibikes since? Dear Parliament, The fact is that until those responsible have been caught and punished until the role of Gábor Kubatov has been clarified and removed from the post of Vice-President and Party Director of Fidesz, a country has every right to believe that nothing else has happened here but that the referendum on the abolition of the Shop Lock on Sunday had to be prevented by Viktor Orbán's personal instructions. [[Zoltán Lukács: Shame!]] This instruction was carried out by Gábor Kubatov, the thugs connected to Fradi Security. That's what it looks like, and no one's ever denied it before. A few days after the attack on Tuesday, Viktor Orbán said in his usual year-end review that he is building now, what we think is a civil Hungary, a civil arrangement, a national Christian era, a Hungarian country. So is this how civil Hungary is built? Is this the national Christian Hungarian country? Sending leather-headed thugs to prevent a referendum and then accomplice to cover it up? Is this civil to you? Can those dozens of skinheads represent your national Christian stance? Where's Zoltán Balog at this hour? Where's Gergely Gulyás at this hour? Where are the Freedom Circles? What's with the silence, gentlemen? Are you guys up to your necks in this? This case won't be solved by sneaking around and covering it up. Here they crossed a line that caused scandal and fear not only among the opposition, but indeed among the supporters of the governing parties. We must therefore say that although there is a need for a normal and just new referendum law, this can only be discussed after we finally find out what happened on that particular black Tuesday at the National Election Office. Democratic and domestic can't even be an accomplice to those who want to cover up everything that's happened. Viktor Orbán and his government have no moral capital to discuss the future referendum law until their possible involvement is clarified. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, until the honour and sense of justice of Zoltán Balog and Gergely Gulyás are bound up by party loyalty, I will be handing over to Viktor Orbán today the prize of "Right Tire." That should remind you of what they're putting their names on. Thank you for listening. [[Dr. Tamás Harangozó puts a black boot on Prime Minister Viktor Orbán's table. A statement from the ruling parties: AVH... Noise. Dr. Tamás Bellozó goes to Miklós Soltesz and talks.]]
u2016-03-07-10	I give the floor to Mr Pál Völner, State Secretary. [[Constant noise, interruptions.]]
u2016-03-07-11	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, It seems that Congressman does not want to hear the answer; this is a somewhat strange question before the agenda. It was very strange that, with the unfortunate events, Prime Minister Viktor Orbán would have tried to express the state of affairs that had arisen here in Parliament on the day after what had happened at the office, and made it clear to the public that he considered the situation to be unworthy and initiated a re-regulation by the National Election Committee, where the MSZP also has a representation, so if you wish to use these events for any meaningful and non-false campaign, you can make a proposal. [[Zoltán Lukács: Boyfriend, shame on you slowly.]] As regards the amendment of the legislation: the Election Committee has received the request and I hope that the body led by Mr Patyi will soon put down its proposals, and on this basis we will be able to change the text of the law in February 1998 and thus in the time of the Horn government, which is the issue of the parallel initiative... [[Noise.]] I thought it was a valid question, but I'm trying to answer it properly. So the anomaly that existed since February 1998 would finally be resolved. [[Zoltán Lukács: Don't talk about it, tell us what happened last Tuesday.]] As for the long-standing legal institution: as I said, hopefully we will be able to resolve this issue. In the autumn, I myself initiated a five-party consultation when the referendum law was open, and the MSZP could have taken advantage of these proposals. At that time, Mr Fraction Manager informed me in his reply that he was only willing to sit at a negotiating table under conditions that could not be met by the government. Among other things, it was the redeployment of constituencies, the electoral law, the procedural order, the full law of referendums, and it bound the substantive dialogue to a complete change in the procedure associated with it. This is not constructive cooperation! Minister Antal Rogán also drew attention last week to the fact that, in contrast to opposition statements, there have been four referendum issues relating to the left in the last year, in which a complete collection of signatures was carried out, each unsuccessfully. Perhaps these failures also excite you, and that is why you cannot deal constructively with this situation. [[József Tobias: I am irritated by the way you speak, but it is very!]] As I mentioned, regarding the amendment. I do not think that your intentions are always met by the will of the voters. In itself, the question of how to benefit workers when working on Sundays is always turned out. Once again, I would like to point out that we recognise that the institution of the moratorium on submission currently in force, but particularly from the time of the Horn government, can lead to an unworthy situation. [[Noise in the ranks of the MSZP.]] [[Noise in the ranks of the MSZP.]] However, the law in force also protects against possible atrocities, so the Criminal Code provides for cases where there has been an infringement (noise in the lines of the MSZP). ) If persons obstructed by elections, referendums, referendums or European Citizens' Initiatives are affected by violence, threats, deception or financial benefits, it falls within the scope of the Criminal Code. It's going to be an examination. [[11.30]] With regard to the unfortunate events, I would again like to hold on to what Congressman said. This year is the 10th anniversary of the fact that you led me to say that police or squads, in the autumn, at the commemorations of 56 with state violence and thugs, beat up legal demonstrations when you didn't act against it. [[Continuous intervention from the MSZP fraction.]] They even set fire to cars as a provocation. What were the results of the investigations there? Why didn't they find the culprits there? Why was the police chief decorated at the time? And you talk about the rule of law? ! Are you talking about violence? Aren't you ashamed? ! [[Dr. Tamás Bellozó: Are you talking to me? Aren't you ashamed?]] Thank you for your attention.
u2016-03-07-12	Ladies and gentlemen, I need the MSZP fraction to calm down. We will continue with the speeches before the agenda. [[Constant, loud noises, interruptions.]] Madam Dóra Dúró asked to speak before the next agenda:. Education is not a gambling issue. You have the floor, Congresswoman.
u2016-03-07-13	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, There is also something that works in the KLIK; we could even be happy if it was not illegal re-employment, for example. The N1 TV Explorer shows that there is a district in Hungary where teachers are employed with a contract of assignment, while they also work for KLIK as a public servant. This procedure is quite simply illegal. Of course, it provides an extremely good opportunity for the money to be distributed, because in these cases it would not have been necessary to bring teachers from other institutions on the basis of the number of hours. The deputy head of the institution who reported these abuses at the school district was impossible, and when he submitted his new application to another school on the other side of the country, to Nagyatád, then the principal of the school district told him that recording proves that he would not evaluate him on the basis of his professional performance, and he would not want to ruin anyone's life, but it is not nice that this deputy head of the institution made announcements. It also proves that when he submitted his application to the high school in Encs, KLIK's colleague told him that he was trying in vain, because that job was practically posted on someone, so it doesn't matter that neither the head of the institution nor the principal of the district can find his application, nor can it be found in KLIK, nor can it be found at the school, because he already has the winner. Mr. Secretary. It is a shame that this situation has developed in education. It's a shame that the KLIK has such conditions. How do you think that educator felt, how did Diana Ablonczi feel, who, as a simple chemistry teacher, reported this situation to the authorities in accordance with her civic duty? What could you do? What could he have done as a teacher, deputy head of the institution, and as a citizen, besides trying to eliminate lawlessness and waste of public money? Technically, it was completely impossible to be a teacher in an educational facility for almost 100 percent disadvantaged children. This lady, this chemistry teacher, she came to me, she talked to me, and I felt like she was telling me these things, like I was in a surreal crime scene. But, Mr. Secretary, I wasn't in a surreal crime scene, I was able to see the everyday operation of the KLIK. I saw the questions I asked myself and the lady asking why I should do this. How can a district director be able to commit lawlessness and then evaluate the lady for the application, not on the basis of her professional performance, but on the basis that she dared to signal it to the authorities? In any case, Jobbik will press charges in these cases, since it is quite clear that it was lawlessness. Teachers shouldn't be silenced, they should listen to what they say. This lady was tried by the KLIK to silence her instead of eliminating this illegal practice. He turned to KLIK with a public request for data, and it is clear from the data that this illegal situation exists in this district to this day. It's a communist method, the secret police worked that way. As is the communist way in which they try to cover up the difficulties of the whole education situation and gamble around, they say something other than what they are doing. We may recall that a few weeks ago, János Lázár at the government briefing said that the problems of the KLIK are not personal issues, not the fitness of the head of the KLIK. One week thereafter, the replacement of the head of the KLIK was announced. János Lázár also said in the government info that the state reserve cannot be questioned; we now hear news that the whole system will be completely transformed from June, and the CLIK will no longer work in this form. But what is perhaps the most outrageous thing is that you are constantly talking about the fact that education is a highly important sector, compared with the Hungarian state spending 5.6 percent of GDP in 2003 in the education system, you spent 3.9 percent in 2013, which makes Hungary a driving force in regional comparison. If the future of children is really important and education is really important, then don't feel sorry for the money in this area! Thank you for listening. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2016-03-07-14	I give Mr László Palkovics the opportunity to answer.
u2016-03-07-15	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and With the marked title that education is not a gambling game, we absolutely agree. I think that the management and transformation of education is indeed not gambling, and if someone treats it this way, it is very, very wrong. For this reason, I believe that the processes that have characterised the transformation of the public education and higher education systems since 2010 confirm that education is not gambling. Having seen what has been done over the past period, which is precisely about process-based management and process-based operation, I would like to list some of these and get to the specific question. A large part of the schools have become state-owned. We've begun the transformation of the vocational training system. We've started catching up on the teachers' wages. We say here that we do not spend enough resources on the education system: to date, we spent 230 billion forints more than in 2013 only on wages. Different steps have also been taken to reduce the burden on families, partly through the introduction of a free textbook; changes to the content of school physical education have been introduced in relation to the health situation of children. We have introduced a compulsory preschooling system from the age of 3; we have started to deal with our actions to reduce early school leaving. I think that the transformation of the higher education system is based on a specific strategy in the field of higher education. That the government wouldn't have a dialogue in this? I think you can see the opposite of that. The round table of public education, whose legitimacy some of us are questioning, has begun this kind of consultation, precisely this type of wide-ranging social dialogue involving all interest groups in education. In particular, one of the very important elements is the review of the maintenance system. We introduced this system three years ago; like all such large systems, it needs constant monitoring and modification. The transformation of KLIK's organization has begun, and the communication we have had since the round table was established is clear. The task of the next four months is to relieve the KLIK of the burdens that have arisen in recent years. Specifically, to reduce the debt that was created by the end of February, the CLIK has taken these steps. I think it is also clear to everyone here that two weeks ago, in addition to KLIK's budget, HUF 38 billion was paid to KLIK, and they started to reduce it. The same is true to ensure liquidity for continuous operation. And what we have said, and we will continue to do so, as of July 1st, I would like to operate the state institutionkeeper in a different organisational form. What this form of organisation is, once again, formed in this social dialogue, as a working group of the Public Education Round Table deals with maintenance issues, which will then create the kind of system that will work after 1 July. [[11.40]] We will, of course, look at the kind of problems that the Congresswoman has mentioned here, and we will look at why this has happened. Indeed, that can't happen. This is also the subject of this issue. So I think that the open dialogue that we are conducting on matters of public education, the operation of the KLIK will bring the desired results. Thank you. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-03-07-16	Mr István Németh Szilárd applied for a speech before the next agenda:. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2016-03-07-17	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear Parliament, I would like to suggest to my fellow bellman that you go out to the Office-proofing Service and take over that bloody boot; it is probably missing from the feet of a 2006 thug you just planted here. [[Applause in the pro-government benches. A statement from the benches of the MSZP: Your feet!]] On the other hand, I would like to state before I say my speech that Prime Minister Viktor Orbán, the government and Fidesz-KDNP have repeatedly stressed and believed that he considers the referendum to be the strongest source of legitimacy, the strongest legitimation institution. [[Dr. István Józsa: That's why they don't dare say anything else.]] That is why, a few years ago, through the referendum institution, we managed to prevent comrades from introducing hospital daily allowances, visits and tuition fees. This is why we have initiated an internationalist cooperation, with Hungarian comrade support, to install and install illegal migrants who have been invited here by European leaders and left-wing politicians. [[Dr. István Józsa intervenes.]] Therefore, we will also decide against the compulsory resettlement quota in a referendum. And that is why we can say that if there is a referendum on Sunday's opening hours, then the decision made there will be fully accepted and supported by the government and Fidesz-KDNP. Dear Parliament, However, when we say that children should be at the centre of public education, we also say that the child is entitled to physical, mental, emotional security. It's in the best interest of the children at school. And it also means that adults cannot use children as a tool in situations where their insight cannot be expected from them, they would not be able to weigh it responsibly. A child knows the inner affairs of his family, yet he cannot be burdened with the choices his parents have to make. These include taking a real-estate-backed bank loan, possible solutions to parents' problems at work, but also deciding whether to take a holiday abroad with school organisation or to ask questions about their own health. Because the child is a minor and has limited legal capacity, under the law he has not yet matured to fully understand these issues, and carry the burden of these decisions, its responsibilities, or to commit to playfully, in good humor, without responsibility. Ladies and gentlemen, It can be said that, above all, it is the responsibility of parents, but also of teachers, in the context of school, not to bring children to a resolution on matters that require the consideration and decision of adults. Even if there's a dispute between them. [[Dr. István Józsa: Even when it comes to them.]] Family differences between the father and the mother, professional disputes between the director and the teacher, differences between employers and trade union interests should not be solved by children. Adult conflicts cannot be treated cowardlyly by hiding behind them or calculatingly referring to them. Children don't have to do justice in adult matters, and party politics definitely doesn't have a place in school. There were even first - grade children - not even one - who stayed home last Monday with parental approval. According to the news, the children protested that there was a lot of teaching material. However, based on didactics, the unity of teaching and learning, it is clear to everyone that the child can only judge from his own perspective what is much and what is little. Teaching requires professional knowledge and is a highly educated profession; since the world is a world, there have been no small numbers of multi-diplomatics, language-speaking teachers who are familiar with national expectations and international professional trends. But there was also a strange moment of this educating ceremony last Monday, the mandatory and the free lunches not canceled. In Csepel, the Mayor informed me that this cost a total of HUF 598 210 - HUF 598 210 in public money. Well, ladies and gentlemen of the opposition, honourable trade union leaders! This is the price they pay to bring politics into school, and that is the price they pay to encourage children to take on what adults should discuss among themselves. I think we can also state in this light that politics is not a place for school. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-03-07-18	I give the floor to State Secretary Miklós Soltész.
u2016-03-07-19	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, When we talk about the state of public education and education, and a left-wing faction initiated a special debate on this, it is worth looking at where we started and where we are now. And this is all connected with the idea world, the mentality that Mr Harangozó had done here in Parliament earlier, with the thought that we experienced here in Parliament during the parliamentary debate day, when the trade unions were sitting in the box of the socialists, whose leaders are unwilling to solve the problems that are there and to think together for the sake of the children, for the sake of the young people, for the sake of teachers, so that for the sake of the whole nation, it is really better to solve the problems that are there and to think together for the future. It's a big problem. Just because the Socialist Party, together with their liberal comrades, has done what it has done here in recent years, decades in the field of public education, public education, is characterised only by destruction. There was also financial destruction and destruction in terms of values. If you look at the values, the respect of teachers has completely disappeared over the last decades; a teacher, if he goes in to teach, does not get the opportunity and respect to raise and educate children. If that government had remained in 2010 - the socialist-liberal government - then from the autumn of 2010, the practice of gender theory would have started in kindergarten, again this madness would have been forced upon Hungarian society. [[Intercoms from the benches of the MSZP.]] They were the ones who completely destroyed vocational training, resulting in tens of thousands and hundreds of thousands of people, and especially tens and hundreds of thousands of low-skilled people, without work, unable to get a job. They were, by the way, the ones who reduced teachers' wages instead of educators' appreciation, by taking the 13th month allowance. [[Lajos Korózs: When did you give it back, Miklós?! You've had six years! Did you give it back? You've had six years. Why didn't you give it back?]] Contrary to all this, Comrade Korózs, listen to me a little bit, because then you will hear what we have been able to do in these four years, and what results have been achieved by the government that is now trying to attack from the left again. There is no discussion of a teacher's wage increase that increases the wages of teachers by 50 percent between 2013-17. [[Dr. István Józsa: I thought it was 2012.]] And we've already spent 234 billion forints on this. The fact that schools and public education institutions have renewed from more than HUF 200 billion, which they have not done, is undisputed. The fact that we consolidated the municipalities that were indebted to them because they had not received the aid in the socialist-liberal period is undisputed. [[Lajos Korózs: Because you bought bonds in the order of 100 billion, that's why!]] maintain their primary schools, secondary schools, vocational schools. And the fact that the second and third Orbán governments have increased their support for free food more than two and a half times over the last five years is undisputed. [[Lajos Korózs: There were so many starving children.]] This helped the poorest, most difficult young people in the lowest row. [[11.50]] The fact that over the past few years we have given children free textbooks in class 1-4 is also undisputed, thus reducing the burden on families. [[Lajos Korózs: You can't learn from it!]] They want these results to be taken to the left, they want to take back these results and bring the country back to a state that has caused and caused the total destruction of public education and education. Therefore, we can continue to say that we are on the one hand in favour of values and that we can do this at the negotiating table while maintaining values. We continue to call on all responsible people and responsible leaders who want to do things for the Hungarian people, whether they are young children, whether they are those young people, whether they are teachers or families who raise children, so that public education, public education - I would add, vocational training - should be at a level that can help save and further develop Hungarians. Thank you very much for what you said, honourable Member, because this is the responsible attitude, not to sit in a socialist box, but not to participate in the negotiations and not to think together for Hungarian public education and for young Hungarians. Thank you for listening. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties. István Tukacs: Shame on you!]]
u2016-03-07-20	Dear Parliament, László Varju, independent; Anita Heringes, MSZP; István Szávay, Jobbik; Előd Novák, Jobbik; Sebestyén Vágó, Jobbik; Lajos Kepli, Jobbik; Zoltán Magyar, Jobbik and Dániel Z. Karpat from Jobbik. Now, at 11:51 p.m., we will begin the discussion of questions and immediate questions. I would like to inform you that the Speaker of Parliament is the Rules of Procedure 121. Paragraph 4 (a), point 124. By exercising its powers extended by paragraph 1 of Section 1 of the Act, he rejected the following questions, as they are not the duties of the addressees: Mr László Varju, independent Member K/9190. on the written question addressed to the Minister in charge of the Prime Minister's Office, and Mrs Schmuck Erzsébet K/9478. He rejected the oral question addressed to the Minister of National Economy. Dear Parliament, First, I will give the floor to Csaba Tóth, a representative of the MSZP, who wishes to ask the Minister of Human Resources, what will happen to you, City Park? It's an address. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2016-03-07-21	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, In December, the government decided on the measures needed to implement the Liget Budapest project. If they had waited another month, they would have been able to make this decision in the light of the opinion of the people of Budapest. One of the public opinion researchers conducted research on behalf of the Air Task Force in January on the renewal and integration of the City Park. According to this, Városliget was the most popular, most visited place in Budapest in the last year, since more than three quarters of the respondents visited it. The poll researcher asked the capital in several ways, and it always came out that the vast majority refused to install the Liget. 83 percent - 83 percent - do not agree that the Hungarian National Gallery goes to Városliget. The residents of Budapest think that green spaces, playgrounds, sports areas and promenades need to be renovated. According to their three-quarters, only these renovations would be necessary, but not the construction of new structures. In view of these, I ask the Honourable Secretary of State: do they continue to insist on new buildings designed for the City Park, which are now clearly opposed by the overwhelming majority of Budapesters? What will actually increase the green surface when the construction works are finished, as Minister László Baán said, while planning to build more new buildings in the park? What can you promise the inhabitants of the capital and Zugló, considering when the Liget will be renewed, when will they get their public park back? What is the guarantee that students and residents of schools in the area, in particular, can play sports again, play in the park, and that those seeking rest here should not lose the opportunities offered to them by the Liget? And finally, how do you intend to manage the parking and traffic chaos that is expected to arise due to a significant increase in traffic in Liget? I'm waiting for your answer. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2016-03-07-22	I give the floor to Secretary Peter Hoppál.
u2016-03-07-23	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, Thank you very much for asking. When we discussed the Liget Budapest programme before the National Assembly, some questions and concerns were raised in the general debate, which we tried to answer according to objective standards. Obviously, the result of previous misinformation is that many still believe that this is a programme going in the wrong direction, while much has been clarified in recent months. So we are very confident that thanks to the Liget Budapest programme, both the Zuglós and the Budapest tourists in general, whether they are Hungarians or from abroad, will find that we have been able to help the capital and Hungary to create a new region based on the traditions and organically developing here. The direction is that buildings that can enrich the Hungarian museum world in the Liget were selected at a very serious international design contest. For these world-class buildings, which we hope will be a new innovation in Central Europe, the greening that we will be able to use will contribute to the benefit of the fact that at present about 60 percent of the green surface in the entire Liget region is currently around. The rest is paved with concrete, and at the expense of concrete, we can increase it to the green surface, so we can give the City Park about 65 percent of the green surface, i.e. 5 percent. Városliget Zrt. would like to carry out the constructions as quickly as possible. On the one hand, to make the living and the people who use the Liget less uncomfortable. We are confident that the new form of the Liget, which can be visited at the time of investment and reconstruction, will satisfy everyone. Thank you for your interest. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2016-03-07-24	Dear Parliament, Mr. Dániel Z., representative of Jobbik, wishes to ask the Prime Minister a question: "Whom can they deport? It's an address. On behalf of the Prime Minister, on behalf of Mr.Antal Rogán, Minister of the Cabinet Office of the Prime Minister, who is responsible and competent, will answer the question on behalf of Mr.Csaba Dömötör. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2016-03-07-25	Mr President, Dear House, Six months after Jobbik's first suggestion of issuing a national referendum on quota, the government seems to finally see the real weight of the problem. And we ourselves support your motion on this, because it is important to have a national consensus on this incredibly strategic issue. At the same time, we see two obstacles to the initiative. One is a legal one. In order to remove such obscurities, we tabled an amendment to the basic law, which has not been discussed by the Fidesz majority committee at its second committee meeting since then. Here, therefore, we expect their action. At the same time, we have a substantive concern, because we should not only fight quota, but also the mandatory quota, not even the world quota that you raise, but we also see that we should also take action against the constant threat of repatriation. After all, if you are fighting the quota, if there are no deportations, if the fence is working perfectly, the physical border lock is working perfectly, then how can you at this moment be caught up in the construction and construction of reception centres, so-called refugee hostels, in terms of Körmend, Szentgotthárd? And we've received several similar distress signals from several parts of the country. So we have a question: are you willing to extend the referendum issue not only to the quota, but also to all forms of deportation? So are you willing to prevent this catastrophic process from happening along the Jobbik line? How do they guarantee, in summary terms, that no aliens arriving here uninvited to Hungary will be deployed? Thank you for the opportunity. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2016-03-07-26	I give the floor to Secretary of State Csaba Dömötör.
u2016-03-07-27	Honourable Congressman, When we talk about the proposals on quotas, we need to clearly separate two things. One of the questions, one of the cases, is about the past. The European Union has previously taken a unique decision on the introduction of a total of 120,000 immigrants. Hungary, like Slovakia, did not accept this decision and filed a lawsuit against it. We believe that this decision has been unlawfully imposed on Hungary, and we want this to be stated by the European Court of Justice. The goal is to repeal this decision. The other proposal is about the future. The European Union now wants to force the countries of Central Europe to distribute them to other countries by binding force. [[12.00]] This would therefore not be an individual decision, as it was last year, but a permanent procedure. It is, therefore, that a permanent mechanism would be put in place to install immigrants who would not otherwise be admitted to Hungary. The government's position, Mr President, is clear: the mandatory quota increases the threat of terrorism and is also pointless, as it is an invitation to millions more. It is also illegal, since neither Hungarian people nor European citizens have been asked whether they support these ideas. The opinion of the Hungarian Parliament was not asked either. In addition, it is an issue that fundamentally affects the future of our continent. We want the Hungarian people to be free to decide who they want to live with and who they don't. Given that the compulsory resettlement quota has given way to this right, it goes against the fundamental democratic principles. For this reason, the government will act by all means against such quotas, against resettlement quotas, and will listen to any proposals that serve this purpose. This is also served by the referendum on this matter. A successful anti-quota referendum would be a clear message, the essence of which is as follows: the European Union cannot go beyond and go beyond the principles on which it was created. Thank you for your attention. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2016-03-07-28	Dear Parliament, Mr Bernadett Wind, representative of the LMP, wishes to ask the Minister for National Development: You have the floor, Congresswoman.
u2016-03-07-29	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, In 2010, the Orbán government declared war on the faceless salaries. Orbán himself said here in Parliament on 8 June 2010 that a monthly gross payment ceiling of 2 million has been introduced in the fiscal sphere, because he does not consider it acceptable that, I quote: today, these institutions also have payments of 4-5 million per month, or even 7 million per month. This was the position of Viktor Orbán in 2010. Now, the regulation has managed to keep the 2 million basic wages in practice, but the bonuses and other benefits have skyrocketed. It is no wonder that in 2012 the Hungarian government declared a fight against face toaster bonuses. Last year, however, there was an unexpected turn of events. In the face of what had already been done, the executive wages were unexpectedly increased, which now means that a state company manager can take home 10 million a month. At the same time, it was also stipulated that this should not be accompanied by an increase in the wage burden and that additional budgetary resources could not be involved. In other words, it looked like they were building up all the bonuses they had. I submitted a written question to Minister Miklós Seszták, and the answer was that most of the bonuses disappeared in 2013 and were incorporated in part or in whole into the lease and other benefits. What numbers are we talking about? For example, at the Hungarian Post, the Hungarian Post has one-on-one deposit of 21 million bonuses, but the 176 million premium of the MÁV leaders has increased partly the basic wage and partly the other benefits. Now, since you've only sent me aggregated numbers, and sometimes even the additions didn't add up, my request is to clear this up. If the bonuses were already built in in 2013, did the CEOs earn HUF 3-4-5 million a month already? And if not, how will management wages be raised without increasing labour costs? Will they touch the workers'wages or expect dismissals? I look forward to your honored and accurate answer to my question.
u2016-03-07-30	I give Mr János Fónagy the opportunity to answer.
u2016-03-07-31	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and For companies subject to direct and indirect ownership rights of the Ministry of National Development, the premium potential of senior employees between 2013 and 2015 was included in the company's business plan. Premium tasks or bonuses were not issued during that period, sometimes without a ministerial authorisation. In the case of senior employees, basic wages have not changed in previous years and bonuses have not been included in the basic wage. For each company, the overall amount of salary and other benefits varied due to organisational and personnel changes resulting from the operation. I'm assuming that's what you classified as a comparison error. [[Dr. Wind Bernadett:]] In order to implement the relevant decision of the government, Magyar Nemzeti Vagyonkezelő Zrt., Szerencségy Zrt., Magyar Város Művek Zrt. in the case of senior employees of companies under the Ministry of Development. and MÁV Zrt. With the exception of its number one leader, their basic wages and the total amount of premium that may be granted in previous years are lower in 2016 than in previous years. Thus, there will be no need for additional budgetary resources and there will be no negative impact on the workforce in any respect on the evolution of labour costs in line with the above mentioned changing rules. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2016-03-07-32	Dear Parliament, Mr László Vécsey, representative of Fidesz, wishes to ask the Minister of Human Resources:. Are there any further developments in the responsible portfolio in the 2014-2020 EU development cycle? If so, which areas of health do they concern? It's an address. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2016-03-07-33	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, The Hungarian proverb says that health is expensive when the disease is near. When a person becomes vulnerable, when he becomes in a state of death due to a disease, the health care system, a well - equipped hospital, which contributes even more, can contribute to the patient's rapid recovery. In my constituency, in the constituency of Gödöllő at the end of January, the office in Aszód and at the end of February the Flór Ferenc Hospital in Kistarcsa could take over the X-ray machines with the most modern technology worth hundreds of millions of forints, which are even more sparing to the human body. It is also very impressive in a national outlook that over HUF 322 billion has been spent on hospitals in the last five years, and 70 percent of the institutions have made significant improvements, partial or complete renovations. In addition, over HUF 100 billion worth of high-value machines and instruments were purchased in the healthcare sector. This picture fits with the fact that healthcare was the first sector where Fidesz launched a wage increase. The program constantly ensures higher wages for doctors and nurses. I would also like to express my thanks to health workers in the sector, who can see that we are moving step by step, of course, in line with the country's capacity to carry weight. In relation to these facts, I would like to remind you that, in contrast to all of this, the socialists have sent out health workers under their government, reduced their salaries, and, if this had not been enough, another 600 billion have been withdrawn from health care, indebted hospitals and even profited on patients. Dear Secretary of State, On this basis, I would like to ask you: is the responsible portfolio planning further improvements in the 2014-20 EU development cycle? If so, what areas of health are they in and what information is available in relation to electronic health services? Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2016-03-07-34	I now give the floor to Secretary of State Zoltán Ónodi-Szűcs.
u2016-03-07-35	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear House, Honourable Congressman, Thank you very much for the opportunity to report on the work and planning that we have done so far. As you have already mentioned, there has been more than HUF 500 billion of improvements in health care in the previous cycle, and we also have a strategic plan, the Healthy Hungary, which we would like to continue. Accordingly, from EFOP programmes, which include the Ministry's own programmes, more than HUF 90 billion will be developed in health care. However, this would not be enough for us, and we are already seeing HUF 22 billion in terms of development, which will be implemented in the TOP programmes, and what we do not know clearly yet, but also means a source for us, is the possibility of GINOP. I would like to make a few points for you, in fact, about what this development will mean. We will develop child emergency care, there will be a number of new skill labs in many places, as you know, our new callword is patient safety, and we would like to have as many skilled workers as possible in health care. We'll have child and youth psychiatric development, we'd like to renovate the nursing homes. We would like to improve the system of public health institutions. Overall, we would like to use more than HUF 100 billion of resources in the next year or two. [[12.10]] I would also like to answer your special question - I see that I have half a minute left -: I would like to finally put the electronic field of health into operation, because, as you know, the development of this has been completed at the end of last year. Thanks to God, the electronic ID card has also been activated, so the obstacle to using its hardware park for autorization, that is to say, to enter this space, has passed away from us. According to our plans, by the second half of 2017, all hospitals and all the pharmacy will join this system. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-03-07-36	István Tukacs, a representative of the MSZP, wants to ask the Minister of Human Resources:. Why does an on-call GP get 31,000 people? It's an address. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2016-03-07-37	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Secretary of State, it's nice to see you in Parliament after a few months. And I am also pleased to be able to talk about a topic that might encourage my fellow Member Vécsey to reevaluate his opinion, because it would be quite difficult to make it seem, my honourable fellow Member, that the result of socialist health policy is that from 1 January in the small region of Vécsey, instead of two general practitioners, there is a general doctor on duty. Since, in my mathematical knowledge, it's one less than two, it's definitely a deterioration compared to the previous situation. I do not deny, I asked why 30,000 people and 28 settlements now have one in writing instead of two general practitioners. The answer was that it was for the municipalities to solve it, and on the other hand, the ambulances are for those who are very sick to be transported away. Well, that, Mr. Secretary, is a little flawed. On the one hand, the municipalities will not solve this, they have no resources, they will not add a source in Hungarian, as my old mayor said, no - look at my gesture - they like it. On the other hand, the paramedics won't be transporting patients, because the chief of emergency services told me that they don't go to petty cases; that's okay. But they're not gonna make it anywhere in 15 minutes - that's not okay! On the other hand, I'm sure you know that there are patients who do not require emergency services, but who are unable to get to the center from 28 settlements, where the general practitioner must go. Once he's out, he can't take care of the people inside. Dear Secretary of State, I am asking this question - without hope, because it is obviously not going to propose a solution - to clarify: you are talking about the development of health care, people there in the eastern part of the country are experiencing the deterioration of health care; there too. Thank you for the floor, Mr President.
u2016-03-07-38	Once again, I give the floor to Secretary of State Zoltán Ónodi-Szűcs.
u2016-03-07-39	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear House, Honourable Congressman, Then let us put these in a factual order, because I think that is the most important thing to talk about in this House. In recent years, the primary supply has been 40 percent higher than before. So it's not less, it's more. What we are discussing here is the basic care system, and it is a fact and a fact that one of the small regional partnerships has decided - and I stress that a small regional association has decided - that instead of the previous two doctors, it will provide a doctor with its task system. This means that they have taken advantage of the opportunity given by the regulation since 2003 because the 2003 Decree provides that one doctor and one nurse under 40,000 are sufficient for on-call care. Let's just put it in its place. In the city of Debrecen, where I come from, there are three doctors for 210,000 inhabitants. So these are the levels. [[István Tukacs: This is 28 settlements!]] If I can finish it, I'll finish it. [[István Tukacs: Here you go. I'm just trying to help!]] So it's legal. The resources have been raised. I'd like to ask you not to ask us for anything that depends on other people's decisions. [[Interjection in Jobbik's ranks: The head quota cannot be increased! Intercoms in the lines of Jobbik and MSZP.]] So once again, over the past few years, the amount of funds in primary care has increased by 40%, and I stress that if someone needs emergency care that goes beyond the competences of primary care, the ambulances will obviously help. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-03-07-40	Dear Parliament, Mr. Lajos Rig, representative of Jobbik, wishes to ask the Minister of Human Resources a question: "It can't afford tea anymore - this 21st century? It's an address. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2016-03-07-41	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, I'm especially glad you came in, and I can hear from you the answer to my question. Health care is in ruins, with the money currently available, the healthcare system simply cannot function properly. As a result of serious under-financing, the presence of human and material conditions in the majority of hospitals is much less than necessary. Unfortunately, the purchase of the lowest cost and the most basic means is also causing serious problems for the majority of hospitals. The consolidation of hospital debt has not solved the problem, the debt is regenerating. The government forces hospitals to choose, because it is impossible to obtain all the necessary tools from the available management framework, and the lack of what is less bad should be considered. The situation has so far developed that the lips in my constituency can no longer afford tea at Magyar Imre Hospital. According to previous practice, hospital workers received 3-5 jugs of tea per class, which means about 20-30 jugs of tea per day. It can be seen that there is a cost, but it is not enough to provide a hospital with a solution to the problems. It also shows how miserable it is if hospitals have to start making such extreme savings in order to remain operational at all. The debts in another hospital in my constituency have been reclaimed. The outstanding debt of the Tapolca hospital to the Student Restaurant is 26 million and 7.5 million to the city management by consolidating these two hospitals in recent years. In this respect, I have two questions and I would like to have two answers. How is it possible that in the 21st century there is a problem in providing tea as a protective drink to a hospital? And most importantly, what measures is the government planning for the next month on the debt settlement of Tapolca Hospital? I'm looking forward to your reply. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2016-03-07-42	Once again, I give the floor to Secretary of State Zoltán Ónodi-Szűcs.
u2016-03-07-43	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear House, Honourable Congressman, Again, I just want to get to the facts, because I think that's gonna help us a lot. Over 500 billion improvements have been made in the past period, as I have just said. I think that this really makes sense when we add that this is 2.5 times more than the amount of development in Hungary in the last 20 years. You know, of course, that there was a HUF 2.3 billion development in Tapolca. In addition, you also know that last year 60 billion forints of extra resources were added to the system that did not come to us from the E Fund, so that we were able to achieve a significant reduction in debt. I'll give you two facts just to make that perfectly clear. In December 2014, the total debt of the institutional system was more than HUF 70 billion, this is HUF 38 billion in December 2015, and I would add that the cash stock of the institutions is now more than HUF 10 billion. So if someone says that debt hasn't been reduced, then I think it doesn't know the facts. The reality is, it's reduced. There may still be differences in places, but in terms of overall status, the institutional system is much further ahead than it was a year ago. As far as tea is concerned: I think that washing patients' tea with the tea of the workers, I think, in the first place, is a deceitful thing, and I also think that tea can be thought of as a small thing, but every forint that can be held in order to improve the care of patients is the task of every management. By law, since it wasn't too cold, hot tea wasn't needed. Let me protect management on this one. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties. Lajos Rig: And his treadmills...?]]
u2016-03-07-44	Dear Parliament, Sallai R. Benedek and Erzsébet Schmuck, representatives of LMP, wish to ask the Minister of National Economy a question: It's an address. You have the floor, Congresswoman.
u2016-03-07-45	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, According to the firm opinion of LMP, Hungarian public education cannot be made operational without substantial funding. We do not claim that the budget expenditure on education was adequate before 2010, as the figures of the HCSO show a decrease in public expenditure since 2003. The austerity policy accelerated in 2009 and after 2010. [[12.20]] If you look at the data of the KSH, the expenditure on education in terms of GDP has already decreased by 30 percent for the duration of the Fidesz-KDNP administration. According to Hungarian fiscal law, in 2010 the total education expenditure of public finances amounted to HUF 1571 billion. If every year at least this amount had been secured by 2016, it would now be nearly HUF 75 billion more in the education budget. Moreover, inflation was 16.8 percent during this period, which significantly reduces the value of educational expenditure. So there was no additional source in the system. The additional cost of a teacher's wage increase of 234 billion is financed at the expense of other educational expenses, with no extra money in the system. Of course, there was a need for a teacher's wage increase, but we need to see that it is calculated that hundreds of billions are missing each year from maintaining the school system. That's one of the main reasons that the Klebelsberg Institutional Center has failed today. According to LMP, despite the conversion plans for KLIK, the Hungarian school system will not work without the restoration of HUF 200 billion. Here's what I'm gonna ask the Secretary of State. Can future educational reforms be expected to restore, substantially increase education expenditure, raise funds for the safe functioning of the Hungarian school system? Thank you. I'm looking forward to your reply.
u2016-03-07-46	I give the floor to the Secretary of State, András Tállai.
u2016-03-07-47	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and First of all, I would like to clarify you as regards the educational expenditure figures referred to, since the public education expenditure concerned was HUF 1084.3 billion in 2014, while the expenditure allocation foreseen in the 2015 budget was EUR 1230.5 billion. I would also like to point out that this amount includes the additional training appropriations for the 2015 appropriation, which have been transferred to the National Vocational Training and Adult Education Office during the year. Based on the comparative figures, we can conclude that there has been an additional source of public education expenditure in the education system, amounting to HUF 146.2 billion, for example, to fund the teacher's wage increase. Contrary to you, we must also state that this is the reality and this is the fact that the institutional system of public education has been and is still operational after the transformation. However, it is also a fact that the completion of reforms is not yet complete, so it is in progress. Under different conditions, different sources can be used to achieve the objectives set in the country, so the system needs to be amended in several places and it needs to be changed. The preparation of the 2017 budget will be launched shortly before Parliament. One of the main priorities of this is the restructuring of the public education funding system. The government feels responsible for funding education and for the complete and optimal restructuring of the institutional system in terms of providing the necessary resources. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2016-03-07-48	MEP László B. Nagy, representative of Fidesz, wishes to ask the Minister of Human Resources: . In this way, the MSZP supports the development of our children by closing kindergartens with the title of Socialist City Leadership in Szeged. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2016-03-07-49	Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Women's employment is a record in Hungary for the last 20-25 years. This raises the need for parents to place children in a nursery or nursery as widely as possible. It is important for their parents to know that in kindergartens, their children are safe, in good conditions, and they also receive adequate education. In recent years, we have expanded the so far nursery facilities, along with the traditional nursery, the mini-cradle, the day-care center and the family nursery. According to our calculations, over the next three to four years there will be 17,000 new cradle seats, providing wider and much more flexible care and much better adapted to the needs of families. This is also supported by the fact that the child is now not only one year old, but also six months old. The form of support is also becoming increasingly popular, with an increase of 20-23 percent this year. Therefore, it is no coincidence that the country's preschool capacity was expanded by nearly 10,000 new preschool seats between 2010 and 2015. Dear Secretary of State, That's why what's going on in Szeged is incomprehensible. In eight years, the socialists had almost completely abolished the support for home creation, families were driven into fatal foreign currency loans; wage cuts, pension cuts, rising electricity and gas prices, debt was the result of socialist nationalism. This trend is continued by the Szeged city administration, as despite the parental protests, they have made a decision to close five kindergartens in the town of the Tisza Coast. Among the kindergartens to be closed, there is one that has been constantly over-subscribed, so it was one of the most popular and popular kindergartens in the city. And another is the only kindergarten in town that opened at 5:00 a.m. What should parents who go to work at dawn do next? I'd like to ask you to answer with respect. Thank you. [[Applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2016-03-07-50	I give the floor to Secretary of State László Palkovics.
u2016-03-07-51	Mr President, Dear House, Honourable Congressman, Kindergarten and kindergarten care not only serve to promote reconciliation between work and private life, but also constitutes a fundamental investment in the development of children, improving the future chances of disadvantaged children. In Szeged, there are 12 municipal cradles with 982 seats and 110 percent capacity utilisation, which supports the need for children's care. It is therefore incomprehensible why the socialist city administration plans to turn a care unit into a practice and eliminate 24 seats. The most important change in public education for the 2015-2016 education year was the introduction of a pre-school obligation extending from the age of three years. The measure paved the way for children to start education within the institutional framework with the same chance and access from their early years, as well as for early learning difficulties to be discovered; it is necessary to allow for early intervention, reduction of disadvantages and, not least, early development of talent to begin as soon as possible. The effectiveness of all of this has a significant impact on facilitating the transition to kindergarten and reducing the proportion of early school leavers in the long term. Therefore, when a local government decides to close its well-functioning kindergartens according to high-utilisation indicators, it threatens the future chances of the pre-school population in its own administrative area, increasing the factors of disadvantages. It is particularly necessary to mention that the measure resulting from its maintenance decision also shows a breach of the obligation of the Public Education Act, according to which it cannot impose a disproportionate burden on children as a result of the decision. It places a disproportionate burden on children when the conditions of education, education and education compared to the average circumstances make it significantly more difficult for the child, taking into account the age and specific educational needs of the student, or by taking action it causes significant cost increases for parents in the kindergarten of the child, while the sector, with the support of the government, provides support for the development of childcare facilities along the above objectives and for the sustainability of the creation of equal opportunities also from domestic sources. Thank you. [[Applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2016-03-07-52	Dear Parliament, Anita Heringes, a representative of the MSZP, wants to ask the Minister of National Economy:. The novel approach to dual vocational training through research areas that have so far been under examination, such as antiquity and Middle Ages. You have the floor, Congresswoman.
u2016-03-07-53	Thank you very much. Dear Secretary of State, The examination of the development of different disciplines and the comparison of present experiences is, in our view, an important issue, but it doesn't matter what money is intended for, and what is your priority. The government seems to be increasingly creative in using the tax forints paid by employers and workers, which should initially be spent on vocational training and adult education. As a priority, you have issued an application from the basic training section of the National Employment Fund, which examines vocational training and adult training in Hungary, after Christ up to 1500, especially in relation to the campaign, the beating of funds and the exchange of money. It seems that the dual-based system of vocational training in Hungary is already so perfect, and the situation of students in vocational education and training schools is so reassuring that the time has come when we can sit back and go back to the past - there is a need to have materials written about fighting and beating money and changing money, not the current system to be revised. [[12.30]] It spends 8 million HUF on this part of the training part of the National Employment Fund, which aims to re-light ancient and medieval vocational training and adult education in a novel situation. I respectfully ask the Secretary of State why they are looking for solutions to the deep and structural problems of vocational training and adult education in Hungary in ancient and medieval warfare, in money laundering or in exchange for money. How does the utilisation of the HUF 8 million grant help to improve the situation of Hungarian dual vocational training and adult education? Why not spend this money on research in vocational education and training to improve labour market positions? Why don't you take care of the kids to get training that will help you live? Why do we have to go back to the past, do we have studies, historical materials, about money change, money laundering and war? Live in this world! Thank you.
u2016-03-07-54	I give the floor to State Secretary Péter Cseresnyés.
u2016-03-07-55	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Unfortunately, I have to say that you have not been properly informed, because this proposal you mentioned and this future work will be part of a long process. [[Dr. Tamás Bellozó: Which part?]] The government's task is to create vocational training capable of meeting the needs of the labour market. The performance of the Hungarian economy can be improved if a sufficient number of skilled workers are placed on the market. It is also important to stress that research into the history of vocational and adult education is becoming increasingly important in Europe, in a Europe that you often see as an example. In the last decade, much of the research carried out in Hungary focused mainly on examining changes in regulation, typically not on the history of vocational and adult education. To fill this gap - and I would ask you to pay attention now, because I said that if you had read the material more carefully, you would have known that this was a part of a longer process - the research programme aimed at examining the links between vocational training, adult education and employability and the labour market, part of which is the historical examination of these professional areas. New results can, of course, contribute to attracting vocational training and extending dual training in the medium and long term. And then it is very important, because it was also a question of who was using this money and how: the research programme in question is primarily attended by young researchers, which we hope will contribute to their professional development in addition to a deeper understanding of the history of the field. 16 of the applicants will receive gross HUF 500 thousand research grants for a specified period. Thus, the HUF 8 million is not paid in one amount, but a number of young researchers can do effective and effective work. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause from the Fidesz ranks.]]
u2016-03-07-56	Zsolt Egyed, representative of Jobbik, wishes to ask the Minister of Justice:. What law can we expect to protect animals? It's an address. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2016-03-07-57	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, I look forward to seeing, along with my thousands of fellow animal-protecting citizens, what will happen in the bill on animal cruelty. We are now in the usual mechanism of sweeping the opposition's proposals off the table. I'm assuming you've consulted with the organisations, lawyers, to protect animals, and you're making a law that has the appropriate deterrent effect. Please also consider the fact that appropriate sanctions for the abuse of animals can also reduce and prevent the abuse of humans. Several studies have shown that anyone who tortures a dog is preparing for a human being, there is a high chance of assaulting a family member or other members of society after the animal has been abused. I would also ask the Secretary of State, in consultation with the Ministry of the Interior, to take more stringent and thorough action without causing further overload on the part of the detectives. The result is apathy, superficial investigation, possibility of error. We know that, at present, there are more issues to be dealt with by a detective than the norm - whether in the field or in the geographical area. In the end, I would like to say that I am skeptical about your coordination, because it usually turns out that the negotiation only affects a very narrow circle. Just to mention the bigger things: this is the cause of the catastrophic situation of health and education. I would also like to ask the Secretary of State that if you really care about animal protection, then the decisions of the animal protection round table that I set up in January, which I presented to the Hungarian Parliament in the form of a bill, please support me, because I have consulted many of these animal protection organisations. I would also like to ask the Secretary of State where you are in the negotiations and who you have sat down with. What are the priorities in the negotiations; what results do you want to achieve; what effect does the new law expect with its entry into force? I look forward to your honest and direct response. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2016-03-07-58	Mr Pál Völner, Secretary of State, has the floor.
u2016-03-07-59	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, Mr. Congressman, in your question, you mentioned a law on animal cruelty, but I would like to reassure everyone that there is no such law, and as long as Fidesz is on the government, there will be none. We have exactly the opposite objectives, because we want as few animals as possible to fall victim to mistreatment and torture. This is also the purpose of the Law on the Protection and Welfare of Animals and the relevant provisions of the Criminal Code. Many of the animal protection organisations that have recently moved from Western to Parliament have also stressed that Hungary is one of the strictest criminal law regulations in Europe in this respect. At the same time, there are still cases where vulnerable animals are brutally abused, and they rightfully upset all good - feeling people. The Ministry of Justice has announced consultations with animal protection organisations, and we have already started organizing this. We visit almost a hundred organizations for e-mail data reconciliation, and if everything goes according to plan, we can meet them in a short time. Obviously, there will also be organisations with which the Member will keep in touch. As regards the question of interest in the purpose of the negotiations, I think it is important to emphasise that, in addition to sanctions, we see a great, if not even more, focus on prevention, because the primary goal is that no one causes suffering to animals. I hope that we will be able to develop innovations as soon as possible with co-wallets and organisations with competence and expertise in this matter that will make our animal protection system more effective and refine existing legislation and practice in order to achieve the objective that the demonstration aimed at together. Thank you for asking. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2016-03-07-60	Sallai R. Benedek, Erzsébet Schmuck and Ikotity István, representatives of the LMP, want to ask the Minister of National Economy a question: It's an address. Mr István Ikotity has the floor.
u2016-03-07-61	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Possibly Other Politics has recently submitted a number of written questions about the activities of Andy Vajna and Gábor Sima near the government casino Caesars. According to Mr. Minister's answers, only last year's visitors had a record number of 1.2 million visitors in their arcades. This could generate a record turnover of approximately HUF 180 billion, after which only a few billion HUF will be paid into the budget as a toy tax. The gifted casinos are also a gifted free tax for your friends. Meanwhile, we have still not seen any meaningful progress in gambling prevention. The rules of the Player Protection Regulation are either complied with or not. To date, it is not possible to know what and how it will be spent from a dedicated source of 100-200 million. It is not in the government's interest to prevent it, so let's think about it, because let them spend as much as possible in Andy's casinos, that's their interest. LMP continues to say that casinos should be closed as long as they are not connected to the NAV, or until Gambling Control is on watch from 0 to 24 hours in the arcades, constantly checking the cleanliness of the toys. As long as these conditions are not met, only random tests are carried out - for example, they analyze images of cameras in corners on which there is obviously nothing to see - so it is reasonable to say that Andy Vajna and Gábor Sima's affairs are opaque. Dear Secretary of State, Doesn't it bother the government that friends get rich at the expense of gambling addicts? From the recent data, Andy Vajna's business is getting better and better, while the state is suffering more and more damage, as he is giving up billions of dollars in revenue, but it doesn't help many hundreds of thousands of gambling addicts' problems. I'm waiting for your answer. [[It's a rare applause from Jobbik's ranks.]] [[12.40]]
u2016-03-07-62	I give the floor to Secretary of State András Tállai.
u2016-03-07-63	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, I would like to inform you that, by the way, you are probably aware that in the second half of 2015, the Ministry of National Economy prepared a government decree on the new player protection system with the involvement of new player protection organisations and the relevant organisers. This government regulation fills a big gap, as this working system will replace a 20-year lag. Before 2016, only players under the age of 18 were protected by the system as much as possible. From 11 November 2015, the Government decree provides a 24-hour player protection green number for those affected. Over 150 calls have been made in the last three months and more than 300 persons have been registered in the so-called Player Protection Register. This is a great achievement, since let us think that this is a matter of restrictions, of persons under guardianship on the basis of a judicial decision, and in the other case - more - there are people who make a significant self-limiting statement. I think that this government decree brings a breakthrough in player protection, since three wallets combined, the Ministry of Justice, the Ministry of Human Resources and our wallet have developed a uniform concept, editing player protection notices that are published on the organizers' websites, making them available to players on the playgrounds and on the sales sites in print, free of charge. This system has just started, and obviously your experience needs to be appreciated. The first such comprehensive evaluation under the legislation will take place on 20 February of the following year, and this system may be revised and possibly amended. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-03-07-64	László Kiss, representative of the MSZP, wishes to ask the Minister for National Development: district experience. Is it expected to improve the problems? It's an address. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2016-03-07-65	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, It's no secret that there are many IIIs. The district dweller was waiting for the wobbly building of Buda. I, along with many myself, did not understand that Zsolt Láng II. The mayor of the district of Fidesz prevented this investment for so long, but I am glad that it has succeeded and that the tram sections have been passed on to traffic. Of course, as usual, there have been numerous complaints from the public about the renovation or the investment, and I would like to share their experiences with you. Let me just give you a few examples. At the Margit Hospital and the Stiavnic Street stops, on the Vienna road, the platforms were not raised, like the others, the defective asphalt was not replaced, and there were no rain-protected waiters, there were no guard rails, and the wheelchair was very difficult to move. That's very important because, once again, we're talking about sections connected to Margaret Hospital. When we contacted the BKK, they said that this solution could not be applied here, but interestingly, we managed to do it on another road with similar characteristics. In many places, the equipment of the stops themselves is fluctuating, for example, the illuminated information disputes are missing in many places. It is particularly painful to see the lack of construction of the Vienna Road terminal: at present, only a very small-letter timetable information can be found about where the two trams in there are going, which is not a good thing at a stop that is both a stop and a starting station. There is a lot of congestion, and it seems that these congestions have not been eliminated in any section, either on Kolosy Square or on Vienna Road, which causes very great difficulties. I therefore ask the Minister or the Secretary of State, who will answer whether they see these problems and whether it is possible to correct the investment in order for the spinning tram to be able to fulfil its role in accordance with Article III. In the life of the population of the district. Thank you for listening.
u2016-03-07-66	I give the floor to Secretary of State László Tasó.
u2016-03-07-67	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, We have also thanked the Member for his signals and information on his experience, and we will certainly convey it to the City Council, because they have powers and opportunity, but of course we will take into account the views of road users, and indeed we will integrate it into our next measures. We feel it is natural, regardless of the fact that in the first stage of such a large investment, there are problems and problems that need to be improved later. It is certainly important to return in time and not forget that between 2007 and 2013 all the resources of the Cohesion Fund were spent on metro 4 in Budapest. Other, just like this spinner investment, important development has been cancelled, there is no money left for it. Here, too, in order to complete the technical content, a compromise had to be reached and its technical content had to be reduced in order to make the investment even useful when it was completed. As you mentioned, however, the remodeling of the platform at Selmeci Street and Margaret Hospital wasn't even part of the plan. It is true, it can be done, and it can be done by moving the track, remodeling and removing a traffic lane, but this could be a more expensive technical solution, the rails should also be moved, and there is no source for it at the moment. The point is that this should have been included in the spring field in the 2007-2013 cycle in Hungarian, and it was not included. However, I will definitely inform you that the list of the integrated operational programme for the development of transport includes the construction of the external tram and the extension of the road. The line would go to the Golden Valley station, which is definitely achieved, and we could help reduce congestion. After April 30, 2016, Kolosy Square is expected to reduce congestion, because we will get there with the investment. And what is important: whatever mistake there is, we try to achieve, so what we start, unlike you, we finish, even in Budapest. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-03-07-68	István Szávay, representative of Jobbik, wishes to ask a question to the Minister without a wallet for national politics: . Does the government stand up for the status of Tőkés László and the state of defence? It's an address. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2016-03-07-69	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, The news has just exploded that Romanian President Klaus Iohannis has withdrawn László Tőkés from the highest Romanian state medal, the star of Romania. The current MEP's career after the change of regime may be a cause for debate, but it is indisputable that his courageous stand has played a key role in the overthrow of the national communist dictatorship of Nicolae Ceauşescu, which reigns with unprecedented terror. Therefore, the fact that László Tőkés received the mentioned medal on the 20th anniversary of the Romanian Revolution did not surprise me. The current withdrawal of the Romanian star system on a clearly political basis, another low point in Romanian-Hungarian relations, which are already in a state of loathing state, has begun to harass the Hungarian community in Transylvania with renewed momentum by Romanian state bodies, and in a short period of time many attempts have been made to intimidate the Hungarian community in Transylvania. All of this is because in 2013 László Tőkés suggested that Hungary should assume a protective status over the Hungarians of Transylvania and Transylvania, like Austria and South Tyrol. The suggestion contained in the 2014 election programme of the Jobbik Hungary Movement was then triggered by the hysterical outrage of the Romanian state power seeking to eliminate the Hungarian community in Transylvania. Since then, the various organs of the Romanian state apparatus have not only struck the most emblematic members of the Szeklerland autonomy movement on fabricated charges, but they have kept innocent Hungarian people locked away from their families in custody in Bucharest for months, not just anything, accusing them of terrorism. On the basis of the above, I ask the Secretary of State whether the Government agrees that Hungary must assume a protective status over Transylvania and the Hungarians currently living in Romania. Do you agree that László Tőkés, the star of Romania, has been withdrawn on a political basis for an anti-Hungarian reason to intimidate the Hungarian community in Transylvania? So does the government stand up for László Tőkés and the status of defence? I ask the Secretary of State to give me a clear answer to both my questions. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2016-03-07-70	I give the floor to Secretary of State János Potápi. [[12.50]]
u2016-03-07-71	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Honourable Congressman, Dear fellow Members, The public opinion of Hungary and the Hungarian government are incomprehensible before the awards of László Tőkés are withdrawn, given that, as you said, László Tőkés's decisive role in the Romanian revolution and the launch of the regime change is indisputable. The withdrawal of his medal is not only personal, but also the whole Transylvanian, but can be said calmly, offensive and provocative for the whole Hungarian nation. We strongly support the right of László Tőkés to state his position; this is the fundamental value of democracy. We agree that Hungary must also protect the Hungarians of Transylvania, Transcarpathia, Felvidék, South Hungary and Diaspora, as the Hungarian governments of the time have a statutory obligation to bear responsibility for the fate of Hungarians beyond the border. It is our duty to support the enforcement of their individual and community rights and the creation of their community self-governments. The Hungarian government also supports the autonomy efforts of Hungarians in Transylvania by all means. In favour of the Hungarians torn in Trianon, together with the majority of the nations, we must seek support for the legitimate and fair demand of Hungarians so that they can live freely, culture and language with the goods acquired by their ancestors in the 21st century. Practice and organise its own administration in an appropriate way for Europe of the century. Finally, we stand by the intimidated mayors, officials, János Mezei, Árpád Antal, Ráduly Róbert and their associates. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-03-07-72	Dear Parliament, Erzsébet Schmuck, representative of the LMP, would you like to ask the Minister of National Economy a question: "Are you really stealing an entire sector for the sake of the Prime Minister's daughter? It's an address. You have the floor, Congresswoman.
u2016-03-07-73	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Last week, Antal Rogán, Minister of Propaganda, denied that the centralisation measure in the field of tourism would be nationalisation. They're not gonna take anything from anyone, he said. This is obviously unreal, because it doesn't take ownership to destroy someone, it's enough to tell them centrally who can organize what festival, who can participate in it, or to make a law that excludes some people from the market. It's open, it's a much bigger intervention than it's ever been before. The state is relocating to tourism to absorb resources. They want to run the entire sector from a centralized organization. On the example of the CLIK, we have seen how well these centralized things work. Nationalisation of tourism is particularly interesting because it is a well-functioning sector. They're trying to help a sector that doesn't need it. They argue that the country is still not taking advantage of its potential and that this would be facilitated by a so-called flexible institution. But that's a lie. Everyone knows that they want to make room for the Prime Minister's daughter, Rachel Orbán, and a couple of dozen other Fidesz buddies, and they're grünning a state institution stuffed with billions of forints, which will build a brend for millions of dollars. In the meantime, he's trying to get the market players dependent, and that's a good deal for those close to you. Mr. Secretary. I'm asking you, are you really adapting the state organization to the Prime Minister's recently graduated daughter? Are they really capable of sacrificing a well-functioning sector? And how many people's wages are threatened by this centralization? I'm waiting for your answer. Thank you very much.
u2016-03-07-74	I give the floor to the Secretary of State, András Tállai.
u2016-03-07-75	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and The evaluation of the activity of the tourism sector is a matter before the government, the government has placed it on its agenda and has already discussed it at several government meetings. Currently, the regulation of the sector, its legal issues, the operation of public institutions, companies and development issues in the sector belong to the Ministry of National Economy, and the portfolio would like this to remain so in the future. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-03-07-76	Dear Parliament, Ildikó Bangóné Borbély, representative of the MSZP, wishes to ask the Minister for National Development:. All travel experiences with the MÁV? It's an address. You have the floor, Congresswoman.
u2016-03-07-77	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear fellow Members, Dear Secretary of State, There is panic, trains are late; storms have come, trains are late; trains fall three centimeters, trains are late; the MÁV leader raises his salary to 5 million forints, trains are late; or an overhead line just breaks, trains are late a lot, often in Hungary. The railway companies are working to make every journey an experience, said László Tasó, State Secretary for Transport Policy at the Ministry of National Development at 39. Travel to the International Tourism Exhibition 2016. He added that it is not easy to compete, but with the improvements made in Hungary, MÁV-Start has taken significant steps to win passengers. He also said that the design of elegant conditions is progressing well, and the Hungarian government provides as much of its own and EU resources as possible. I asked Mr. Secretary of State when he last took a train to see if he would experience these elegant conditions on these flights. András Csépke, MÁV-Start Zrt. His CEO said that he will increase the number of ticketers in 2016 by 150 to improve the quality of services and passenger information. I don't know if you know, Mr State Secretary, that more people are missing from the train station due to a serious shortage of specialists, but also from drivers; according to my information, more than a thousand professionals are missing from railway undertakings. Then these 150 people can only be a substitute for this system, not part of the development of services. I would also like to ask the Secretary of State that on 15 May 2013, when the additional charges were introduced, service development was promised, although this happened, not on the lines where the additional fee was collected, but on suburban flights. I would like to ask the Secretary of State when they will also be developing long-distance flights, and what he meant when he said that travel is an experience in Hungary if the Hungarian citizen is above the railway. I'm looking forward to your reply.
u2016-03-07-78	I give the floor to Secretary of State László Tasó.
u2016-03-07-79	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and I was amazed to read your question, and I hoped that it would be a little nuanced in words. You claim that the 38 thousand people who work on the Hungarian railway do not do their job, their work has no purpose, it is not the purpose of the Hungarian railwaymen to make every journey an experience. You despise and mock these people's work. This is a terrible big problem. But he probably doesn't even know the operation of the railway society, he doesn't even know the amount of resources the government has been trying to provide in recent years, and he's going to develop rail transport in Hungary in the coming years. Besides, he does not know how many people have concrete, serious, and responsible jobs to do by using the railway not only to go to work or to go to school, but also to take a vacation and rest with him, and someone who has worked the whole year is saying that they want to travel by rail and reach their goal in a rest. You have no idea how many people's work makes it possible to make such improvements in Hungary. And if you do, I'm telling you to remember that Hungary will spend 1800 billion forints on railway development. [[Dr. János Latorcai, vice-president of the Parliament, takes the chair.]] By the way, do you have any idea what you're talking about? ! Since Hajdú-Bihar County has existed, there has never been such a high level of transport development in that county. Do you really think that the MSZPs thought that you would have to represent the interests of voters in the way you do? You're destroying the county of Hajdú-Bihar with your provocations, with these comments. Shame on you. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-03-07-80	Welcome, fellow Members. We'll continue with the questions. Congressman Gergely Farkas, representative of Jobbik, would like to ask the Minister of Human Resources, "Why doesn't the teacher's ID apply to pedagogical and pedagogical assistants?" It's an address. Congressman Gergely Farkas has the floor. Here you go.
u2016-03-07-81	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, According to the current Public Education Act, it is possible to use teachers' IDs in the position of teachers, teachers' lecturers and teachers' experts, as well as in leisure-organizing jobs. At the same time, it is incomprehensible why pedagogical and pedagogical assistants were not included among the positions listed in the Public Education Act. [[13.00]] The teacher ID gives teachers discounts that can save up to 10 thousand forints per month. Travel discounts, access to museum, theatre and cinema tickets at a lower price and cheaper access to books are indeed subsidies that contribute to the appreciation of the teacher's profession and to the assistance of their work. Teachers' or pedagogical assistants are instrumental in helping educators with their essential activities. By carrying out care tasks, schoolchildren, often children with behavioral problems requiring specific education, make it easier to cope with everyday life. It should therefore be self-evident that they should also be able to benefit from the teacher's card, especially in the light of the fact that Jobbik has repeatedly initiated an increase in their salary, while they are humiliatingly low-waged. Dear Secretary of State, Jobbik considers it important to acknowledge and appreciate the sacrifices of educators. To express this, my fellow Member Dóra Dúró and I have tabled a legislative amendment proposal to extend the scope of the entitlement of the teacher's card so that pedagogical and pedagogical assistants can also apply for the benefits of entitlement. On this basis, I would like to ask the Secretary of State why the teacher's ID did not apply to pedagogical and pedagogical assistants. Will they support our legislative proposal? I look forward to your substantive answer. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2016-03-07-82	Thank you very much, Congressman. The answer to this question will be given by Secretary of State László Palkovics. Here you go.
u2016-03-07-83	Mr President, Dear House, Honourable Congressman, As you said, according to the National Public Education Act, the teacher has the right to visit libraries, museums, exhibition halls and theatres maintained by public bodies and local authorities by means of a certificate certifying his entitlement to statutory benefits. A teacher's card is entitled to a teacher's card regardless of the maintainer, in the position of teacher's lecturer and teacher's expert, further in the occupation of leisure organizer, as well as in the place of retirement or pre-age care from those posts. When the law was drafted, the intention of the legislator was to maintain, in addition to the introduction of the pedagogical career, the former benefits, such as the benefits that the teacher's card could benefit from, which the legislator wanted to continue to grant to the former category of entitlements in support of their work and in recognition of it. It is important to note, however, that the law also extended the benefit to the educational professions established in non-public education institutions for the purpose of child education and care, health care institutions, children's spa and correctional institutions. I agree with Mr President that, without the victimous work of those in the position to support education, the educational institution cannot function, but it was a financial obstacle to extending the scope of entitlement. In the case of teachers' assistants and medical teachers' assistants, a government decree provides for additional leave for educators and educators, which is 25 days a year in recognition of their work. Mr President, Mr President, Mr President, Mr President, Mr President, Mr President, Mr President, Mr President, Mr President, Mr President, Mr President, Mr President, Mr President, Mr President, Mr President, Mr President, Mr President, Mr President, Mr President, Mr President, Mr President, Mr President, Mr I think it is well known that the Government Decree on Passenger Travel Discounts in Public Traffic entitles all civil servants to a 50 per cent journey 12 times a year, regardless of their job. Thus, it is not the teacher's card that provides the travel discount, but the legislation under which public employees directly assisting the educational work benefit from these benefits under the same conditions as teachers. The fact that their situation must be reviewed, I must admit, also shows that one of the working groups of the Round Table on Public Education deals with their situation at a separate point, and that it will be resolved in the future. Last year, in 2015, in two installments, the institution maintainer provided them with an extra allowance of HUF 50,000. We will review this situation. Thank you. [[It's a rare round of applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-03-07-84	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Congressman Nándor Gúr, a Member of the National Assembly, representative of the MSZP, wishes to ask the Minister of National Economy:. Why do you allow well-trained, especially young professionals to migrate abroad? It's an address. Mr Nándor Gúr has the floor. Here you go.
u2016-03-07-85	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Today, the situation in Hungary is that there is already a labour shortage. The fact is that the economy is threatened by what is happening in this country, hundreds of thousands of people leaving it. You know very well, because you are the blacksmiths of this story, that about 600,000 people have left this country. They operate failed social policy, economic policy and education policy systems, and they create processes. I'll give you a specific example of information technology. There are more than 20,000 IT experts and 22,000 fewer in Hungary alone than there is any need and need. This situation is only worsening, simply because you do not provide sufficient resources in higher education or in the OKJ training system to increase the proportion of education, applications, recruitment, and, on the other hand, to leave training with an output and education that makes them fit for the labour market. Developers and administrators are needed, but unfortunately, we see that there is no source and that there is no training of the type as much and in quantity as this should be. Actually, you're driving everything towards the community service world, and it's a dead end. It is a dead end that Hungary's only option is to create a competitive advantage for itself with a higher-quality, higher-skilled workforce. What I would like to ask you is what you want to do to resolve the labour shortage that has arisen, so that the economy can be made operational. What's your answer to that? In order not to leave this country as many as they have left, what social, economic and education systems do they want to operate? When, in terms of funding, will the resources needed be added to vocational training? And when will they meet the need to actually pursue vocational training taking into account the needs of the economy? When? When? When?
u2016-03-07-86	Thank you very much, Congressman. State Secretary Péter Cseresnyés will answer you. Here you go.
u2016-03-07-87	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, Unfortunately, for the second time, I must tell you, a member of your faction, or you are the second to whom I must say that you have not been well informed. If you had been informed, you probably wouldn't have asked these questions. After all, over the past few years, there have been a number of steps that have been taken to improve your vocational training, to bring more quality workers into the labour market, and to leave the school bench as many young people as possible, or to become adults who can meet daily labour market needs. [[Nándor Gúr keeps interrupting.]] The answer to that question, which you asked, is that wages are growing properly, real wages are constantly increasing in Hungary. Between 2010 and 2015, if family tax relief is included, real wages increased by 15 percent. I'm sure you would have known that if you had looked into it. In addition, we have, of course, also changed vocational training; if you had been informed, you would have known that from 2015 a new vocational training model was introduced, which set itself precisely the objectives that you have just set out here as a question. The government aims to further strengthen the coherence between higher education courses and economic needs, and to develop training content appropriately. In 2015, the availability of dual training was also introduced in higher education, not only at mid-point. In 2016, the instructors-researchers were given a guaranteed life-time increase, and education is constantly being developed. The second profession in adult education can be free of charge, and we have extended the possibility of acquiring the first profession for 25 years. And I could mention a number of measures that might have been deliberately overlooked by you. But I suggest you continue to be aware that all the questions you just asked could have been answered in advance if you had looked into the existing materials. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-03-07-88	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Congressman Sebestyén, representative of Jobbik, who wishes to ask the Minister of Human Resources: Is this how it works to catch up with people with disabilities? It's an address. Congressman Sebestyén has the floor. Here you go.
u2016-03-07-89	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, A country girl wanted to study at the Budapest Economic College. It was recorded, but the second semester had to be postponed because it was wheelchaired and the college could not solve its placement. Last September, the family asked for the help of the EMMI, from which since then they received two phone calls in response, in which they were offered three colleges. But all three of them refused, because they didn't have access to any of them. I am not asking for help in the specific case, but, of course, on behalf of the family, I would also like to thank you for finding a solution to Vivien's problem. As long as I constantly draw the government's attention to the lack of accessibility and equal access in the proposals for people with disabilities, all I hear in response are good news stories of great results. [[13.10]] Like, for example, government windows accessible from billions of forints, while, based on the experience of those involved, the Győr government window is not accessible with wheelchairs. I wonder how many more people have the same problem. How many can be who, therefore, do not try to study or start with a disadvantage, no matter how good their results are, choose the expensive accessible apartment? Is this equality before the law, and is this the principle of equal access in higher education? Of course, what can we expect from a system where László Rajk can be an example in front of students as a name giver? Unfortunately, this story is not unique, we could also say that it is a veterinary horse of catching up. Examples of access to public education or the open labour market could also be introduced. How can we expect a more independent life from people with disabilities if we keep them from having access to the possibility of catching up? Dear Secretary of State, Do you not think that the untraceable part of the money from the rehabilitation contribution should be used to solve such problems, and that some of the EU's money coming in should not be fed to dooey and corruption, but should help to catch up with disabilities, for example by creating accessible dorm space? I look forward to your substantive answer. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2016-03-07-90	Thank you very much, Congressman. The answer will be heard from Secretary of State László Palkovics. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2016-03-07-91	Thank you. Mr President, Honourable Congressman, Dear Parliament, Appropriate education is also a prerequisite for equal participation in society. During the 2007-2008 academic year, 590 students with disabilities participated in higher education, whereas in the 2014-15 academic year, 2025 students were registered. Higher education institutions support students with disabilities through their information and advisory systems in the course of higher education studies and integration and progress. Students are supported by personalised services, which are supported by disability coordinators in higher education institutions. The 2011 CCIV on national higher education provides the specific infrastructure and material conditions to be ensured in the course of studies. Act 87/2015 on the implementation of certain provisions of Law 87/2015. It's a government decree. The establishment of an accessible space is therefore a legal obligation, and the legislation provides for a deadline of 1 September 2018 for higher education institutions to ensure the conditions. Until this is achieved, an institution without accessible seats may conclude an agreement with an institution with accessible seats on the placement of a disabled student as an individual solution. The Corvinus University of Budapest, the Technical University of Budapest and the University of Óbuda have access to accessible colleges and hostels in five places. It is also important to point out that the accessibility requirements have been fully complied with in recent state aid renovated institutions and that a number of accessibility proposals have been published in the previous 2007 and 2004 cycles in the framework of regional operational programmes. All content development projects of the social renewal operational programmes, as well as all investments in social infrastructure programmes, were subject to horizontal accessibility. The social security system supports it in several ways. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] persons with disabilities in their independent lives. If the housing of a disabled person cannot be otherwise achieved, an appropriate form of care may be provided by assisted housing, to which a flexible combination of different forms of housing services and assistance services can be applied. Thank you. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-03-07-92	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Congresswoman Márta Demeter, representative of the MSZP, would you like to ask the Prime Minister's Minister's Office a question about the speeding up or sabotaging of helicopter procurement by the Prime Minister's Office? It's an address. Congresswoman Márta Demeter has the floor. Here you go.
u2016-03-07-93	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Minister, More than two years have passed since Minister for Defence Csaba Hende announced a plan for the procurement of new helicopters after consulting the parliamentary parties. At the conciliation, the Ministry of Defence also outlined a specific timetable, according to which the tender will be launched immediately after the government has been formed after the elections in 2014. However, in the last two and a half years, despite numerous announcements, not only did the helicopter purchase not take place, but it was not even tendered. The Ministry of Defence claimed that the professional preparatory work was essentially finished, the tender is now subject to a political decision. However, this political decision is apparently not left to the Ministry of Defence, as a few weeks ago, the coordination of the planned procurement became the responsibility of the Prime Minister's Office. However, the issue of urgently needed procurement was not advanced by this decision either. In response to my written question, the Minister could not even draw up a draft timetable such as the one previously made by the Ministry of Defence. All this therefore raises the question as to why the Prime Minister's Office has brought this essentially military acquisition to the Prime Minister's office. Was it the speeding up of procurement or, on the contrary, the task of sabotaging it, because the latter would have been inconveniently embarrassing for defence management? If this is not the latter, and the Prime Minister's Office is really working on obtaining helicopters that are essential for the protection of the country, then I would ask you to inform the Parliament when the public tender promised for the summer of 2014 is expected. Thank you.
u2016-03-07-94	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. I ask for the answer, Minister János Lázár. Here you go, Minister.
u2016-03-07-95	Your Honour, Mr. President. Dear fellow Members, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Thank you for asking. First of all, I would like to say a few words about why the Prime Minister's Office has co-ordinated the procurement. Because Hungary has made a serious commitment to the development of the army for the next period, therefore your question is entirely legitimate, there are also civil needs within the Hungarian state organizational order, which cannot be separated from that. There is a professional consensus in that, and I think that those who deal with military or civil security issues in Parliament can also agree that Hungary's primary obligation in terms of its geographical conditions and security situation is to try to strengthen, increase and have helicopters; once again, not only in the military sector, but also in the civilian sector. This applies even to the question of saving. A few months ago and a few years ago, there was a big debate about how rescue services should be supported by helicopters in order to strengthen rescue. Disaster control needs helicopters, and the police need a significant number of helicopters. The government is convinced that the two things should be dealt with in parallel, if not together. The other question is what helicopters are needed, transport helicopters or combat helicopters are needed. That's a much more complicated question. It is clear that, with regard to NATO, the fulfilment of our obligations can also be achieved by the acquisition of new military transport machinery, and even by purchasing military war machines. In the spring of 2016, the Parliament will adopt a draft budget which will include an outlook of 17 and 18 and 19 and see whether economic growth will allow us to increase military expenditure or to increase the cost of civil protection in substance. For the time being, the coverage of this is not available in the budgets of 16 and 17 for the time being. Overall, we are talking about 150-200 billion. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-03-07-96	Thank you very much, Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, Congressman László György Lukács, representative of Jobbik, wishes to ask the Minister of Human Resources:. What is the truth about hospital infections? It's an address. Congressman László György Lukács has the floor. Here you go.
u2016-03-07-97	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, In recent weeks, there has been an increased interest in cases of hospital infections. According to a comparative article bringing media attention, more people die in Hungary today as a result of hospitalized infections than in car accidents. The statement was, of course, immediately denied by the head of the SAO, saying that in 2015, about 600 people died in traffic accidents, more than in hospital infections. The difference between the two opinions and the data is perhaps interesting because it also raises the question of the availability and transparency of hospital infections, i.e. whether they are accessible, whether the data available for this purpose can be easily and quickly understood, not only for professionals but also for one-time people. Maybe the answer is no. Available data on hospital infections are difficult to find. In addition, it can be said in summary that they are difficult to interpret. The other problem is, of course, the reporting system itself, where doctors agree that it is not everyone and it does not mean properly. However, it would be necessary for patients to see the full picture of each hospital, where and what dangers lie in their care. It would also be important to be able to make a decision on issues, or to see questions about whether or not the hands are disinfected before, for example, testing, or whether this could affect his health, or whether he could interpret the sad fact that in Hungary an average of 6 litres of alcohol hand sanitizer is used every thousand patient days, as opposed to the WHO's recommendation of 20 litres. [[13.20]] We can therefore ask the question, Mr Secretary of State: do more people really die in Hungary as a result of hospital infections than in road accidents? Does the health care-related infection reporting system work well? When will the infection reporting system be fully transparent, is it easy for patients to understand? And are patients as safe in Hungarian hospitals as in other countries of Western Europe? I'm looking forward to your reply. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2016-03-07-98	Thank you very much, Congressman. The answer will be heard from Secretary of State Zoltán Ónodi-Szűcs Gusztáv. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2016-03-07-99	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Honourable Congressman, Thank you for this opportunity to finally clarify, and I hope for the last time what is going on here today, because I believe that there is a lot of false and misleading information on the health situation. I think you should know that hospital infection is not a malpractice, it is a system-related problem that is not only in Hungary, but in all parts of the world. Even in the European Union, according to the European authority, 4.1 million people are infected in hospitals every year, with 37,000 people dying today from infection in the European Union. So once again, this is not a Hungarian problem. It is also obvious that washing the infection with your hands is also a simplification of the story, as it is not only about that, but also about the general state of the patient, how weak he is, and obviously it is clear to you that because of the excessive use of antibiotics in recent years, more and more strains of bacteria are becoming more and more difficult to defend against. This is not a Hungarian problem either. Speaking of reports, I have to say that there are very few countries in the European Union where data collection would be as extensive as in Hungary. What I can imagine is that you can argue why it's not displayed at the hospital and at the national level. There is only one reason for this: in many countries, they have found that if they went to hospital, the patient was scared of the number he saw, because he did not know that it was not only the hygiene that would depend on what he would see there, but also on the severity of the patient being admitted and treated by the class. So I have to say, I hope it's the last time I'm gonna have to talk to you about this. I would like to protect my colleagues and hospital staff: in Hungary, patients are not in greater danger than anywhere in the EU countries. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-03-07-100	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Congressman Imre Horváth, representative of the MSZP, would like to ask the Prime Minister's Office a question: When is the bureaucracy expected to be reduced? It's an address. Congressman Imre Horváth has the floor. Here you go.
u2016-03-07-101	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, In several cases, a bureaucracy reduction concept has been mentioned by several leaders in government circles. Let us remember the Prime Minister's earlier statement when he promised a tax return form the size of a beer mat. There has been no substantial change in this area. Prime Minister, we were accustomed to the fact that he was always speaking in the present time and did not remember what he had said in the past. Despite the operation of government windows and the institution of the customer gate, there are many examples, such as red tape in the management of pension matters. In the case of a request for a pension increase through a customer's door, 7 A/4 papers will be used and 2 return letters will be sent. It is bureaucratic in the case of tax returns, as well as in the case of handling or filing matters at the customer's door. I ask the Secretary of State when the bureaucracy reduction announced by the Minister will be felt among the Hungarian population. Thank you.
u2016-03-07-102	Thank you very much, Congressman. The answer will be given by Secretary of State Nándor Csepreghy. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2016-03-07-103	Mr President, thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, you have the opportunity to talk about an issue that I think is one of the most acute issues in Hungary, because we see that the competitiveness of the country in all the Member States of the European Union, including at home, is very much influenced by the state's competitiveness. The programme launched in 2014 was designed to make the state cheaper, more efficient and faster. That is why we have created government windows where citizens can handle nearly 600 cases today, and by the end of the year, by the time this process is fully completed, the number of cases will rise to around 2000. But, of course, cutting red tape is not just about creating new institutions. It talks about an institutional structure on how effectively these public actors can operate, whether or not there is a need for back-up institutions behind ministries. It talks about the rules that came before Parliament at the end of last year, some of which were also supported by the MSZP fraction, which regulated it and put the question on the agenda that we are really trying to simplify bureaucracy through the amendment of 110 laws. And it's also, of course, about what you asked when it felt for ordinary people. For example, as from 1 January, the number of cases within which the State or any other office has to decide within 8 days has increased from 1 January to 21 days in the case of more complex cases. It can also be felt in ordinary people's lives that we are able to promise, for example, free identity cards. You can also feel that moral certificates can now be requested free of charge in Hungary. It can also be felt in the decision in which, in the case of residential property of less than 300 square meters, there is only a requirement to notify and to do so free of charge and can be felt when any member of a family applies to higher education, he can do so free of charge. We are asking you and this is what we are asking Parliament to propose in the coming months. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] support, thereby further reducing red tape in Hungary. Thank you, Congressman. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-03-07-104	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Congresswoman Loránt Hegedűs, representative of Jobbik, notary of the Parliament, wishes to ask the Foreign Minister of Foreign Affairs and Trade a question. It's an address. Congresswoman Loránt Hegedűs has the floor. Here you go.
u2016-03-07-105	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear Minister, On 25 February, the General Assembly of Szombathely confirmed its intention to sell real estate in the Northern Industry area, including Söpte's administrative area. It is well known that one of the most important steps necessary for the development of these areas is the modification of Söpte's spatial planning instruments, on which the two municipalities concerned have already concluded an agreement. At the same time, this plan gives rise to serious concerns for a large part of the residents of Szöpte, as it is clear that the planned zoning standards provide an opportunity for a public waste-fired power plant to be implemented there. It is known that decisions on the preparation of the area will be taken on the basis of specific investor interests and in line with the fact that these investors wish to invest in Szombathely or Szöptén on the basis of the recommendation of the National Investment Agency, HIPA. Therefore, you, as the Minister responsible for the management of the Agency, obviously have accurate information about who and for what purpose you intend to purchase land on the properties concerned. So please share this information with the public. Szombathely's decision to determine the price of real estate also raises the question of what conditions and requirements the Agency informs potential developers of. For example, will investors be informed that, in some way contrary to the municipal decision, according to the relevant provisions of the law on national assets in force, the transfer of ownership of national property can only be carried out by means of competitive tendering, to the most advantageous bidder, with the value of the service and remuneration? Also, do investors know that the transfer of ownership of national assets can only be made to a transparent organisation? Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2016-03-07-106	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. The answer will be given by Minister Péter Szijjártó. Here you go, Minister.
u2016-03-07-107	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Thank you very much for asking. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and We are currently in competition for more large investments. Several large investors are looking at Hungary as a possible location, which are not only European but also well-known companies worldwide, and they would bring millions of euros and euros to Hungary and create hundreds of jobs. The decision of the General Assembly of Szombathely relates to the possible investment decision of such an investor, who also investigates Hungary. [[13.30]] Without prejudice to the interests of Hungary, I would like to say that the company we are currently discussing bringing a large investment into Hungary and potentially bringing this investment to Szombathely has nothing to do with the incineration of waste. Therefore, there is no waste incineration project in or near Szombathely in the portfolio of the investment agency or in the projects discussed by the investment agency. So from that point of view, I'd like to reassure you. In that regard, I would like to assure you that the investment we are discussing is currently investigating two potential locations in Hungary, competing with a third location, not in Hungary. And I would also ask your patience to understand that you would like me to name this otherwise well-known investor, company, which would perform manufacturing activities, in no way waste incineration or municipal waste treatment, but I cannot do that yet, given that the company will only disclose its decision if it has been decided by the supreme decision-making forum. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] Any contrary behaviour on my part would reduce Hungary's chances of winning this investment, so I ask you to be patient, but I assure you: there is no incinerator. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-03-07-108	Thank you very much, Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, That concludes the questions. Now we move on to immediate questions. Congressman Gergely Bárándy, representative of the MSZP, wishes to ask the Minister of Justice an immediate question:. Do you think that is acceptable? It's an address. The Minister has appointed Mr Pál Völner as Secretary of State to respond to his urgent public mission. [[For signal:]] The congressman has already indicated that he accepts the person to whom he is responding. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor. [[Mrs. Loránt Hegedűs will be replaced in the notary seat by Adam Mirkóczki.]]
u2016-03-07-109	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, As has already been said today, on 23 February 2016, the fighters hired by Fidesz were likely to forcely stop István Nyakó to submit his referendum initiative on Sunday's mandatory store closure. This is unprecedented in the history of Hungarian democracy. Government parties have forcibly prevented someone from exercising their civil rights. The Minister of Justice must be the guardian of democratic and rule of law within the government, but not only that, but they are also slumbering in the Ministry. Do you think that's acceptable? Almost six months ago, the President of the National Election Office said this, and you know it, because he has also told you that it is necessary to amend both the electoral law and the law on referendums, because they give rise to abuse. I'd like to ask you, Mr. Secretary, why you didn't do this if you've known this was a problem six months ago. And now they're pretending to be faced with this problem for the first time - pretending like a child to be amazed at it: They've known for six months, Mr. Secretary. This issue is not simply a matter of police or law enforcement, so I am not asking the Minister of the Interior about it. People's faith in democracy was shaken when they saw these recordings. The hired thugs attacked democratic state operations. As Deputy Minister for the Rule of Law within the Government, what do you intend to do about it? Has it been mentioned at the government meeting to examine the extent to which the prominents of the governing parties are responsible for what has happened? Indeed, Mr Secretary of State, it is a prerequisite for us to take part and even consider drawing up an amending proposal to prevent these, and for the perpetrators to be punished. Thank you very much.
u2016-03-07-110	Thank you very much, Congressman. I give the floor to State Secretary Pál Völner. Here you go.
u2016-03-07-111	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Honourable Congressman, Prime Minister Viktor Orbán may have heard the words of Prime Minister Viktor Orbán, when he stated and made clear to the public the next day that he considered the place that was established and initiated by the National Election Committee to analyse the situation and to propose how we should change the legislation that was laid down in the law adopted in 98 on the exclusion of parallel motions, which was adopted in the Horn Government. In the last autumn, I myself initiated a five-party consultation when the referendum law was here before the House, to which we invited the parties' representatives - there would have been a way to discuss these amendments there. At that time, József Tóbias, Head of the Group, wrote me a letter in which he raised all sorts of preconditions, as is the Member now, from drawing the boundaries of the constituency through the amendment of the electoral law, until the rewriting of the full referendum law. It is therefore very difficult to discuss matters, by the way, and professionally, if you continue to cover yourself in political declarations and try to make the situation appear as if the evil government were preventing us from negotiating, even though at this morning's five-party consultation on other subjects, such as the courts, the MSZP did not appear, the other parliamentary parties were represented; again, these are the preconditions that were raised. So you're asking for requirements that you're practically not involved in, and the set of requirements that you're putting in place without consulting, apart from being unrealistic in size, wouldn't be possible anyway. I hope that they will be more positive in the future. Thank you. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-03-07-112	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. A one-minute rejoinder from Congressman Barondy. Here you go.
u2016-03-07-113	Thank you very much, Mr. President. In a word, you didn't answer my question, so I could just ask you to do it, please, for the next minute, and don't talk about anything else. And I also know another sentence by the Prime Minister: do not listen to what I am saying, but what I am doing. Maybe that's what he said, but he didn't do anything about it, but you should at least do it as the Justice Department. And my question again is, why haven't you done it before, Mr. Secretary? That discussion you were talking about, you know exactly that wasn't about that question. If you want, you can find out what those papers were about. We also suggested that this should also be the case, which you refused to discuss. And if you are referring to the fact that the entire Hungarian legal system has been rewritten, including the questions concerning the referendum, that it was regulated this way during Gyula Horn's time, but that proves one thing with eloquence, Mr. Secretary of State, that until now power has not abused it. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] And now he's using his powers and powers. Thank you very much.
u2016-03-07-114	Thank you very much, Congressman. The Secretary of State is also entitled to a one-minute rejoinder. Here you go.
u2016-03-07-115	Thank you very much. The Member's statement proves that he knows very well that the Ministry cannot act instead of the National Election Committee or Office; obviously, we have our responsibilities in legislation. [[Dr. Gergely Bárándy: That's it!]] Which we are trying to do, especially if the opposition is constructive. We're talking about two-thirds laws here. In this case, this has not been achieved. The case is also being prosecuted, so it is clear that the proceedings must be completed. In the field of legislation, an invitation was made to the Election Committee, where the MSZP will also be represented, and I hope that they will be more constructive and there will be some positive results. With regard to the qualifications that were born in connection with the rule of law, I also mentioned in the previous speech on the same subject that ten years ago, when the '56 commemoration was held in 2006 and there were atrocities during the government you led, there was no such sensitivity. [[Dr. Gergely Bárándy: The perpetrators were brought to justice there! I hope it's here, too. It's gonna be the same here, isn't it?]] I hope that there is similar activity in that case as well. [[Dr. Gergely Bárándy: Just as you were there! Nothing else, just the same.]] They'll show you in the future. Thank you. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-03-07-116	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Mr. President Novak, representative of Jobbik, wants to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question: why can Andrew Vajna, a two-armed robber, build the media empire of Fidesz with public money? The Prime Minister appointed Mr János Lázár, the Minister in charge of the Prime Minister's Office, to answer his urgent public duty. I respectfully ask the Member if he accepts the person who is responding.
u2016-03-07-117	Mr President, if the issue was forbidden by journalists at Fidesz press conferences on this subject, I would at least wait for the Prime Minister here. Thank you very much.
u2016-03-07-118	Thank you. He'll wait for the Prime Minister. The Prime Minister must respond at the hour of the third immediate question. Congressman Tibor Bana, the representative of Jobbik, wants to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question, 'Do words and actions part again?' It's an address. The Prime Minister has appointed Mr János Lázár, the Minister in charge of the Prime Minister's Office, to respond to his urgent public mission. I respectfully ask the Member whether he accepts the person who is responding. [[For signal:]] Congressman says he'll take it. Congressman Tibor Bana has the floor. Here you go, Congressman.
u2016-03-07-119	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Minister, I'd like to begin with quotes for an immediate question. We must ask whether a refugee policy can be right if it is contrary to the will of the people. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. [[13.40]] Orbán said this on Friday at Kossuth Radio, and the Prime Minister added that on fundamental issues which determine the fate of peoples, the question is not what we think, but what people think. They must therefore be asked, heard and their opinions and decisions accepted. This is what was said in Kossuth Radio, and in any case we can see that words and actions are once again not in harmony with one another: the loud promises made by the government and the reality are as far apart as Mako Jerusalem. You are initiating a referendum on the quota system. Not only does Jobbik support this, but we raised the need for the referendum six months earlier, we even said that we should also take a substantial action against repatriations, and at municipal level our representatives also made their proposals regarding Körmend and Szentgotthárd, that not only the deportations but also the representative bodies should stand up against the possibility of re-establishing refugee camps in these cities, in my home town, in Körmend and in my city, in Szentgotthárd. We protested last autumn with all possible means, but unfortunately now we have to see that the situation can be worse, because things are clearly pointing in the direction that migrants can stay longer in the two cities, Körmenden, within the city area, in the Ministry of Interior, while Szentgotthárd is very close to the city of Szentgotthárd, and last year this has caused serious problems. Still, we protested against it with flashmob, protests, and it was János Lázár who acted in his own constituency to close the Nagyfai camp. What we see now is our fear that migrants will be transferred here, and even calls from the Vas County Government Office have been made, where various jobs have been advertised: a social worker, a caretaker. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] So I would ask you, Minister, to clarify the question of how reality is in line with what you have said. Thank you. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2016-03-07-120	Thank you, Congressman. I give the floor to Minister János Lázár. Here you go, Minister.
u2016-03-07-121	Thank you very much. Your Honour, my fellow Member. Dear House, The most important question on immigration is to clarify how many immigrants there are in Hungary today. While there are millions of immigrants in Germany in the number of tens of thousands in other countries, people who have come as refugees or economic immigrants in Hungary, we can say that, in principle, there are a few hundred people in the territory of the country. Out of the 28 EU Member States, Hungary is in an exceptional situation and in an exceptionally safe situation. This is the result of the immigration policy that was able to reduce the pressure on Hungary last year with the security lock, with the legal instrument that you helped the government receive from Parliament, and with the help that the police and the soldiers provided at the border. In 2016, there is a danger that last year's events will be repeated, and in the order of hundreds of thousands, in the Balkans, due to Brussels' failed immigration policy, immigrants who come for economic or social policy purposes and are not political refugees, so we must also prepare for the protection of the Hungarian-Croatian border section after the Hungarian-Serbian border section. Hungary does not set up a single immigration point, an immigrant camp. We hold secure temporary accommodations where the border is temporarily placed illegally, illegally crossing. The purpose of the temporary accommodation in Szentgotthárd and Körmend, which was otherwise agreed with the municipalities, is a guarded transition point, a good example of which happened at the Keleti Railway Station. At the Keleti railway station, we gathered the people and then transported them to Hegyeshalom on a temporary basis, for the few minutes they were still in Hungary. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-03-07-122	Thank you very much, Minister. A one-minute rejoinder from Congressman Tibor Bana, please.
u2016-03-07-123	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Minister, As to how temporary this accommodation will be, the already mentioned closure of the Nagyfa camp, as well as the promotion of social worker, financial administrator, caretaker and similar functions for both cities, are planning to place immigrants in the two settlements in the longer term. We will seize every possible means to prevent this. The country is in an exceptionally safe position, says Minister. That's not the case. That's not what the Körmendi and the Szentgotthárdi feel. Now, compared to last autumn, we will have to face even worse conditions if we let this happen, and that is why we have called upon the Fidesz mayor of Körmend, István Bebes and Gábor Huszár, who is pro-government mayor of Szentgotthárd, to resign because they do not represent the interests of the population, they did not stand up for the people of Körmend and Szentgotthárd. The Fidesz faction also made a strong statement last week on who can decide where migrants should arrive. On the other hand, we see that, as a result of your decision, they will now be reprimanded in the western section. The Prime Minister's warlike words remain inconsistent with reality. Protect the Körmendi, protect the Szentgotthárdi, protect the Hungarians! [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] Thank you very much. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2016-03-07-124	Thank you very much, Congressman. Minister János Lázár has the floor, please.
u2016-03-07-125	Thank you very much. My dear fellow Member, This is all very nice, and basically we agree, but the question of how long immigrants stayed in Körmend or Szentgotthárd last year must be clarified. I don't think the lives and quality of life of those living there have been affected. If a critical situation arises, we will create temporary shelters and, of course, we will negotiate closely with the local government in Szentgotthárd and Körmenden in order to cooperate and even to meet the demands of the local authorities - so that this does not mean the least of the pressure on the population. Moreover, we fully agree with the voters of Körmend and the voters of Szentgotthárd that there is no place for an immigration camp in any city. Temporary shelters that provide short stays for a few minutes may, I believe, be necessary. We're preparing for the worst. We hope that Brussels will have a successful immigration policy in 2016 that this will not be necessary. [[Applause in the pro-government benches. Intercoms from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2016-03-07-126	Thank you very much, Minister. Congresswoman Erzsébet Schmuck, notary of the Parliament, and MEP Sallai R. Benedictek, representatives of the LMP, wish to ask the Minister of the Interior an immediate question: It's an address. The Minister has appointed Mr Károly Kontra as Secretary of State to respond to his urgent public mission. I respectfully ask the notary whether she accepts the person of the response or asks the Minister for an answer.
u2016-03-07-127	Thank you very much. We'll wait for the Minister.
u2016-03-07-128	Thank you very much. I would like to inform the House that the Minister must respond at the next hour of immediate questions. Dear Parliament, Congresswoman Bernadett Szél, representative of the LMP, wants to ask the Minister for National Development an immediate question: 'Does the reduced energy security worth 450 billion losses to taxpayers? It's an address. The Minister has appointed Mr András Aradszki Secretary of State to respond to his urgent public mission. I respectfully ask the congresswoman if she accepts the person who is responding. [[For signal:]] The congresswoman says she'll accept it. Congresswoman Bernadett Wind, please.
u2016-03-07-129	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Government, Dear Parliament, According to recent news, the Hungarian state and the Hungarian tax-payer community, which fully finances public spending, have paid grossly for one of the most unthinkable energy policy adventures of the Orbán government, the purchase of MOL shares and gas reservoirs in Hungary. Back in the day, when we remember it, no one could understand why we had to buy the MOL paket of Surgetnyeftyegaz completely suddenly, well above the market value at that time. Orbán had a completely false argument, which no one has believed since then, because the Prime Minister said that it is in the interest of national security to push the Russians out. After you have captured and linked the country to a nuclear power plant project built on Russian credit, using Russian fuel and building on Russian technology, I believe that Prime Minister's argument at that time was no longer valid. It is important to see that you have done a favour to a money-stricken Russian economy, in which Hungarian taxpayers have lost about HUF 200 billion without any reduction in Hungary's vulnerability to the Russian energy sector. But there's the other completely false attempt to buy strategic gas reservoirs. They spent 265 billion forints on this. These strategic reservoirs are now ringing empty, with virtually no gas in them, with a few hundred million cubic meters of gas in them, while winter is returning and the heating energy demand will increase. Moreover, the situation with regard to energy dependence has become even worse, because after you bought the reservoirs for expensive money, for an incomprehensible reason, some of the capacity was transferred to Gazprom. This does not make any sense at all, because it was given to the company who has already monopolised the Hungarian gas supply to an unhealthy extent. So you spent 450 billion forints. I would like to know what justified these abnormally expensive purchases, which are only favourable to the Russian party, who will be held responsible for this and who will be held accountable for it. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] that virtually 450 billion forints of taxpayers were thrown out of the window.
u2016-03-07-130	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. I now give the floor to the Secretary of State, András Aradski. Here you go. [[13.50]]
u2016-03-07-131	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Thank you very much for the question, honourable Member, because it gives us an opportunity to explain what happened on this front. However, before I begin to say that you are actually not telling the truth, I must add that this question also gives me the opportunity to point out the deceitful conduct of the LMP. There is a typical broker's view behind this question. A broker's view in such a way that he made comments on the exchange rate gains. He said MOL shares are cheaper now than when we bought them. With all due respect, Congresswoman, this is a broker's point of view, not a strategy or a security of supply. We have to add: in the case of MOL, this is a long-term investment, which is also indicated by the fact that since then the Hungarian State has received a dividend of HUF 40 billion on the basis of MOL's ownership of MOL's shares. I must add that it is quite different to compare a risk you mentioned in connection with the Paks Nuclear Power Plant. Another company that controls the production of Hungarian natural gas, such as MOL, and another Paks Nuclear Power Plant, as the Paks Nuclear Power Plant has to replace the fuel every 15 months, can be stored in advance for two years, so there is no way to talk about security of supply in this respect. While the Surgutnyeftyegaz would have had the MOL shares and the oil source in Russian hands, which we have to bring in daily gas sources, yes. This is why the purchase of MOL shares was strategically important and commercially profitable, but the same could be said for security of supply, because we would still have been vulnerable to security of supply by private companies. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2016-03-07-132	Thank you very much. A one-minute rejoinder from Congresswoman Bernadett Wind.
u2016-03-07-133	I could also say that the answer to provocation is provocation, but now let's try to clear things up. What you call a broker's view is actually responsible for managing tax dollars. Don't hold that against me. Be so kind. I'm sorry you threw 450 billion forints out the window. Let's look at the questions again because you didn't answer them, Mr. Secretary. Why did you pay above market prices for these gas reservoirs, if you don't use them for anything after that, there's no gas in it, and they're even giving it back to the Russian company to store gas in it? What's the point of this transaction? My second question is how much Hungarian interest is an empty gas reservoir if Russian gas is involved. Be kind and light this up, because we just don't understand. In addition, if MOL has a problem with Russian influence, why is Russian influence not a problem for gas reservoirs? In fact, who do you fear for the security of gas supply in Hungary outside Russia? It is also necessary to see that the gas reservoir is a special piece of property, which has been severely regulated by who can store it and what it can be regulated by the Hungarian government. And you don't really think anyone's running away from the country with a gas locker, do you?
u2016-03-07-134	Thank you very much. A one-minute rejoinder is for Secretary of State András Aradski.
u2016-03-07-135	I would like to clarify what the Congresswoman has to say. It is not true that there is Gazprom gas in the Hungarian reservoirs! Nor is it true, honourable Member, that we bought these gas reservoirs unduly, because when a decision was taken, the construction of the South Stream was under way, and the construction of the Northern and Southern Channels was under way. It's been built. It is not our fault that our Croatian partners have failed to fulfil their obligations. In this respect, a process has now started between the countries of south-eastern Europe and Central Europe that a gas pipeline system from south-eastern Europe is coming in through Romania, Bulgaria and towards Austria. These all justify the installation of gas reservoirs here. We must add that gas reservoirs served Hungarian security of supply very well this winter as well. In order for us to sleep peacefully all winter, we needed the gas reservoirs in Hungarian state-owned hands. Understand that, and you may not ask such questions. Thank you for your attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2016-03-07-136	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Congressman Vas Imre, representative of Fidesz, wishes to ask the Minister of Defence an immediate question: what measures will the government take to safeguard the safety of Hungarian people? It's an address. The Minister appointed Mr Tamás Vargha as State Secretary for his reply in order to carry out an urgent public task. The congressman indicates that he accepts the person who is responding. Congressman Vas Imre has the floor. Here you go.
u2016-03-07-137	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, On Friday, in the Prime Minister's usual radio interview, he made it clear that Hungary would not allow anyone into its territory without an inspection. He also made it clear that there will be no fence breakouts, immigrant riots, burned-out refugee camps in our country. [[György Szilágyi: That's the answer!]] And all kinds of gangs will not hunt Hungarian women, our wives, our daughters. In other words, there will be no events in our country that may have occurred in other Member States of the European Union. The Prime Minister stated that it is better to act separately than to remain inactive together, with which the vast majority of Hungarian citizens agree. The Hungarian government continues to support Macedonia, who is making serious efforts to control the migrant mass flooding Europe. We provide police assistance and technical tools for border protection to Macedonia, who currently considers the masses of illegal immigrants to be unique. Hungary has provided the full costs of domestic protection against migrants to date, which has now reached HUF 85 billion. The Union has contributed little to this. This is how we know the burden of the crisis on transit countries, including Hungary. Dear Secretary of State, In the interview, it was said that the government was also prepared that if the Hungarian-Romanian border section of Hungary is under pressure, we could build a physical border lock in two or three weeks and further strengthen our existing border sections, especially the Hungarian-Serbian border section. In view of this, I would like to ask Mr Secretary of State what new measures the government is taking to ensure the safety of Hungarian people. I'm looking forward to your reply. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2016-03-07-138	Thank you very much, Congressman. I give the floor to the Secretary of State Tamás Vargha. Here you go.
u2016-03-07-139	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear Parliament, The Member's findings are absolutely correct: Hungary's Government is committed to protecting the safety of Hungarian people to the farthest possible extent. Everything the Hungarian Government has done or does has done and is doing today to protect Hungarian citizens and to guarantee the safety of our families and children. We cannot and will not allow, nor will we allow, similar acts of violence to take place in Hungary, here in Hungary, and that anyone in any Hungarian city, village or settlement must live in fear. The government is prepared to deal with the crisis and, at the end of the last year, it has set up a three-part line of defence that has successfully dealt with the emergency caused by immigration. This works well. If we see an increase in the number of immigrants and an increasing number of immigrants are disrupting this physical line, then we must be prepared to confirm that, and we will do so. [[In the notary seat, Adam Mirkóczki is replaced by Loránt Hegedűs.]] It cannot be excluded that immigrants are moving towards Romania, so we are prepared to build the temporary safety barrier at the Hungarian-Romanian border section, and all the necessary preparations have been made for this. These measures are what guarantee the safety of the Hungarian people. If we look outside Hungary, we can see that politicians across Europe say something different than they said a few months ago. We can safely say that there is no doubt that the Hungarian government's actions were correct and correct, what we will continue to do in the future, and anyone who says otherwise is putting the safety of the Hungarian people at risk. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2016-03-07-140	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. A one-minute rejoinder from Congressman Vas Imre. Here you go.
u2016-03-07-141	Thank you for the Secretary of State's reply. We see migrants entering Europe through Greece. With this, Greece is clearly violating the Schengen Agreement, allowing migrants to enter, not taking any more serious measures to stop migrants. Therefore, all I have to ask the Secretary of State, for the second time, is that if Greece took more serious measures, in particular, to protect the Schengen area at the Greek-Turkish border, it would be better to have fewer migrants in the European Union. Thank you. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]] [[14.00]]
u2016-03-07-142	Thank you very much, Congressman. Mr. Secretary of State will take the floor for a minute. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2016-03-07-143	Thank you very much. On the question of the honourable Member, it also has the answer, which, of course, is yes, and indeed, the greatest riddle of this migration crisis is Greece, as it raises serious security issues as to why Greece, also endangering the security of its own citizens, allows the flow of people to reach Europe, including Hungary, through Greece. There was an example that the ferries between the Greek islands and Greece hadn't been there for a few days, and immigration almost stopped. So if Greece were to move, act and close its borders, defend the Schengen border, as Hungary has done, we would be much ahead of it now. It is indeed better to act separately than to do nothing together, and at today's European Union summit there is an excellent opportunity for the European Union to take action. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2016-03-07-144	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Member Nándor Gúr, representative of the MSZP, notary of the National Assembly, wishes to ask the Minister of National Economy an immediate question with the title "The Friends." Mr. Minister has appointed Mr. András Tállai Secretary of State to perform an urgent public task. With all due respect, Congressman, do you accept... [[Nándor Gúr: Andrew, of course, of course!]] Thank you very much. With all due respect, I'm asking you to mark the Secretary of State under your full name another time. Thank you very much. Congressman Nándor Gúr has the floor. Here you go.
u2016-03-07-145	Thank you very much, Mr. President. For my friends, everything, and for the rest of us, nothing - it's okay, it's your philosophy, I see. Rogán had previously appointed such offshore backup companies to sell the settlement policy, leading the Economic Commission. 300,000 euros today is the amount for which a bond is sold, 34,000 of which are being mowed by offshore companies. The guys are there, they're gonna make sure the money's in the right hands. These guys also charge administrative costs, earn about 25-30 million forints for a bond - it's good for them. Customers don't get hurt either, they get their money back after five years, but those 34,000 euros - about 10 million forints after a bond that these offshore companies get - are paid back by taxpayers. Not others, the taxpayers! Do you understand? ! The buddies you got, they're gonna pay you back. It would be cheaper for the state to finance its business from the market, and it wouldn't be about buddies and God knows who else is doing well. But let's just think about it, that's the greatest level of meanness. Taxpayers get people to pay back what's going on with their buddies. And who controls these offshore companies? How do you check it? Is there any way to control these financial movements, Mr. Secretary? Or are they creating a hotbed for corruption? Why do people make people pay for what's going on with their friends? I expect very simple questions, very fair, fair answers from the Secretary of State. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2016-03-07-146	Thank you very much. State Secretary András Tállai will respond. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2016-03-07-147	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Mr Nándor Gúr has already asked this question at the previous Parliament meeting, and we have answered it, and we will do it now. But hopefully someday you'll understand what this is really about. [[Dr. István Józsa: Understand!]] , because it can be seen that you are not sufficiently informed about this bond sale and settlement option. So let me get this straight. First of all, the company that is applying publicly, so publicly... - defined by the Economic Committee and published the terms and conditions. Under the conditions, it is clear that it is necessary to indicate who are the owners of the company in an identifiable manner. So it's not offshore and offshore; it's completely publicly known who the owners are. The decision is public, as it is made by the Economic Committee and will be published on the website. Nor is it true that here taxpayers pay whatever they pay from this system, because when a person buys a Hungarian government bond, it is obvious that when a person hands over his private capital to the State, certain costs arise in form of interest or in the form of other benefits. Nothing else happens in the present case than the fact that a company operating abroad buys a Hungarian government bond and pays the commission on the government bond, the interest, after the expiry of the period, after five years. Therefore, taxpayers are not harmed in any way in this respect, nor are they paying any other costs to the relevant distribution company. So the congressman's statement is not real. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2016-03-07-148	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. A one-minute rejoinder from Congressman Nándor Gúr.
u2016-03-07-149	Thank you very much, Mr. President. It's like, you know, when public information is encrypted or public money, public wealth, it's impossible to control it, it's impossible to control its use. This is also the case when they want to spend resources without Parliament's approval, no matter what, how much or when. That's right. In the past, this appeared to be a category of Btk. So, it looks like the laws are being put in place to make sure everything's okay, the possibility of corruption is being expanded, and the ground for free robbery is being set up. It's a very simple story. You can tell me anything here, Secretary of State András Tállai, you can tell me anything. Stealing is stealing, you have to treat your story as a moral issue, and not just within the framework of the law. And don't let your friends' money be paid by other people and, above all, not by your tax-paying citizens. You know, if this is how it's gonna work, then it's gonna be possible to talk about how Hungary is doing better and how reforms work out other stories. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2016-03-07-150	Thank you very much, Congressman. Mr. Secretary, I'd like to speak to you for a moment. Here you go.
u2016-03-07-151	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Well, we need a little more modesty on the part of the congressman, because not long ago, the following people sat next to you, I say their names: Gábor Simon. Does it mean anything to you? Budget fraud. Hundreds of millions can't account for it. Or Miklós Hagyó. [[Nándor Gúr: They asked you, and you answer, that's your job.]] He was sitting next to you recently in the faction. Before you talk about corruption, account for the credibility of your party, your faction. I think that these accusations and accusations thrown at the government should be considered first, since they are not based on facts. The two people I've told you who were sitting next to you recently, but this is so factual that a final court ruling has stated that these people are corrupt. [[Dr. István Józsa: Absolutely not! There's an accusation, not a judgment. A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2016-03-07-152	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Member Márton Gyöngyösi, representative of Jobbik, wants to ask the Minister of Foreign Affairs and Trade an immediate question:. Why does Hungarian diplomacy leave the indigenous Hungarian communities fighting for autonomy? It's an address. Congressman Márton Gyöngyösi has the floor. Here you go, Congressman.
u2016-03-07-153	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Minister, The national policy of the past decades was based on the illusion that European Union accession is a cure for the tragedy of Trianon and the centuries-old wounds of Hungarians beyond the border. This illusion has been fueled by all governments, the governments of Fidesz, since the change of regime. [[14.10]] The steps of Hungarian diplomacy were exhausted by the fact that, on the one hand, they offered strategic partnerships to the governments of the neighbouring countries that suppress Hungarians and, on the other hand, they built political and economic cultures in the communities of Hungarians across borders, while the existence of national identity is a huge challenge in every Hungarian community across borders, while Hungarians can choose between slow assimilation and emigration. Orbán-Fico friendship and migration do not forget that there is a Beneš Decree declaring collective guilt in the Highlands, while the Slovak state language law prohibits the use of mother tongue in the Highlands. In general, against Hungarian symbols, it is constantly offensive, and the blocking of restoration around street and local signposts is continuous, and Hungarian language education is constantly blocked by the neighbouring countries, as well as the use of official language, while politicians and journalists are constantly saying anti-Hungarian outbursts. Romania is the peak, or it can also be said that the low point in anti-Hungarianism, although we know that Hungarian anti-Hungarianism is the national minimum, where Bogdan Diaconu has submitted and adopted a bill with the parliament there which prohibits the use of minority language in public education offices. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] I ask you, Minister, what do you say? What measures are being taken to combat discrimination and violations against Hungarians? In addition to Hungarian autonomy, when does the Hungarian government stand firm? I'm looking forward to your reply. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2016-03-07-154	Thank you very much, Congressman. The answer will be given by Mr Péter Szijjártó, Minister of Foreign Affairs and Trade. Here you go, Minister.
u2016-03-07-155	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Deputy Chief of Staff, He raised a very important issue, which I think we should not spend six minutes in the Parliament as a whole, but we could talk about it for days or weeks, and that would not be excessive given the importance of the subject. Therefore, let me now be limited for two minutes to tell you that one of the most important objectives of Hungarian foreign policy is to continuously strengthen Hungarian national communities living across the border. I think that an important instrument of this - not exclusive, but one - is to normalise our relationship with those countries where our national communities live, and indeed try to take this to a strategic level. Sometimes this is successful, and there are positive feedback, and there are places where we must admit that partner governments are not partners in building such a type of cooperation that is on the ground of common sense and favourable to the national community. There is no doubt that the Vice-President of the Group has identified negative processes, and I agree with some of them. I agree that a number of decisions have been taken in Romania in recent years either at national or local level, which is difficult to deny that they were directed against the Hungarian national community. I think that a significant part of the proceedings currently conducted against corruption in Romania have an anti-Hungarian voice, which is quite clear, these institutions, called anti-corruption, are targeting primarily the organisations of the Hungarian national community, or the state or local offices managed by them, and we find this unacceptable, and we have repeatedly expressed this. At the same time, I think it is also undisputed that decisions have been taken in several neighbouring countries - here primarily, let us say, Serbia is worth mentioning - which have been specifically for the benefit of the local Hungarian national community. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] Since the first half of the impossible mission is over, the remaining one minute I will try to continue to answer or answer your question. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-03-07-156	Thank you very much, Minister. Congressman Márton Gyöngyösi has the floor for a one-minute rejoinder. Here you go.
u2016-03-07-157	Dear Minister, I understand that you try to normalize your relations with your neighbours and to establish a relationship and make it better, but it is not possible that the interests of Hungarians across the border will be further reduced than the desire of a strategic partnership or the need to normalise relationships. I know that there must be a balance somewhere, but the order must never be replaced, just as the European Union's expectation that collective rights should not go beyond a certain level here in the periphery and in the European Union cannot go beyond the expectations of the Hungarian interests. It is necessary to see how others in Western Europe fight for minority rights - in Northern Ireland, Scotland, the Catalans in the Basque Country - to see what a real national stand is and to compare it with what is happening here in Hungary. We are still waiting for the Hungarian Ministry of Foreign Affairs to stand up for the reprimanded representatives of HVIM, because we did not hear the voice of Hungarian diplomacy, just as we did with regard to the autonomy efforts of Transcarpathian Hungarians or with regard to autonomy in Szeklerland. I look forward to your rejoinder. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2016-03-07-158	Thank you very much, Congressman. The Minister has the floor. Here you go, Minister.
u2016-03-07-159	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Deputy Chief of Staff, I would like to assure you that when we make decisions or decide on a policy to be taken and pursued in cross-border Hungarian national community, we always do so after consulting the organisation representing the local Hungarian national community. [[It's an intervention in Jobbik's ranks.]] So in each case, when we have to take a stand on a cross-border issue with Hungarians, we ask the local Hungarians' organization what they think we should take a position on. You know, Deputy Group Leader, I do not want to put this debate on a party basis here, because I think this is a much more important debate than the fact that we are now starting to party here, but it is quite certain that you have repeatedly asked us, in recent times, for measures or revelations that, when we asked about the representation of the Hungarian national community in that country, they told us not to do so, because if we do it, it will only make it worse for them. So I am asking you, Vice-President of the Group, always to shape our policy with regard to neighbouring countries in the interests of local Hungarians. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] However, I must say, Mr Vice-President of the Group, that in many cases, of course, we agree on issues relating to Hungarians across borders, in some cases we do not, but we can always discuss them either here or in other formats. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-03-07-160	Thank you very much, Minister. Dear Parliament, Congressman Mátyás Firtl, a representative of KDNP, wants to ask the Minister of Agriculture an immediate question:. By what means does the government help milk producers? It's an address. The Minister has appointed Mr István Nagy State Secretary to respond to an urgent public task. [[For signal:]] Congressman says he'll accept [[Mátyás Firtl: I'd love to.]] the identity of the responder. Congressman Mátyás Firtl has the floor. Here you go.
u2016-03-07-161	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, The demand for milk and milk products on the world market has been declining in recent years. Of the main dairy importers, both China and Russia's purchases were lower than previously experienced. The problem in China is the slowdown in economic growth, the high stock levels, while in Russia the still alive embargo on agricultural products is widespread. Dairy products will thus remain on the European Union market, which will further reduce buying-in prices in the EU and in Hungary through external trade processes. While in February 2014, the producer price of raw milk was HUF 109 per kilogram milk, currently the price of raw milk is HUF 60-65 for small producers and HUF 80 for larger producers. According to the government's decision, the Ministry of Agriculture provides an additional HUF 11.4 billion in 2016 to help dairy farmers and, given the considerable difficulty of the sector, the Ministry has started to draw up a milk strategy, which includes concrete measures along market and sectoral situation analysis and the available financial and legislative framework. Dear Secretary of State, What concrete action can be expected in the context of the preparation of the milk strategy? When can these measures be implemented? Also: what other means does the government plan to make milk production profitable again in the long run? I look forward to your reply, Secretary of State.
u2016-03-07-162	Thank you very much, Congressman. The answer will be given by Secretary of State István Nagy. Here you go, Secretary of State. [[14.20]]
u2016-03-07-163	Thank you very much. Your Honour, Mr. President. My dear fellow Member, First of all, allow me to express my appreciation to Hungarian dairy producers for their perseverance, that they are now producing and maintaining below the cost price level for the longest time. I very much hope that their perseverance will also result in the future as a result of the government's actions and the improvement in the world market. Of the additional funds, the amount of extraordinary temporary aid to dairy producers is expected to be paid in March, starting from April and the last week of May, from HUF 11.44 billion from the national budget. This is a virtually HUF 25 per litre of aid for dairy producers. The provision of regular scheduled resources has also begun for milk producers, as our aim is to pay all available resources to ease their financial situation. This represents a total of HUF 38 billion. The payment will be made continuously in 2016 and will amount to another HUF 25 per litre of milk. In addition to and beyond these subsidies, the portfolio considers it important to present policy issues in the milk and milk products sector in a solid sectoral strategy, with particular emphasis on improving the sector's organisation, transparency, the performance of the manufacturing industry and the promotion of consumption. The strategy was started with the involvement of all stakeholders. The crisis in European decision-making forums will soon be the subject of a Council meeting of the Minister of Agriculture. Member States, including Hungary, have also submitted a number of proposals for discussion. We also consider it important to put in place another crisis response package. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-03-07-164	Thank you very much. A one-minute rejoinder from Congressman Mátyás Firtl.
u2016-03-07-165	Thank you for the floor. Dear Secretary of State, Indeed, there is recognition for milk producers. It is very important for us, who have lived a few decades before, so that the situation in Hungary cannot happen again, that an entire livestock will be cut down because of problems that we are dealing with in an inadequate way. That is why what the government has indicated and what the agricultural portfolio is doing is important. I would put more emphasis on, as you have said, the ability to sell as much milk as possible through any system - school milk, social sector - to increase consumption, and to give farmers the opportunity. But it is equally important for me - although the Minister for Foreign Affairs has already left - to look for markets in the external economic field that can provide the opportunity to place Hungarian milk in the future. These are the points where we should be able to get ahead.
u2016-03-07-166	Thank you very much, Congressman. A one-minute rejoinder will be followed by Secretary of State. Here you go.
u2016-03-07-167	Mr President, My dear fellow Member, I fully agree with you on the proposals outlined, and I would like to add so much to what you have said that we should not even increase consumption, although it would be very good. Only when the consumer responds and reaches for milk on the shelf, we ask that he chooses Hungarian milk, because we produce exactly as much milk as we can use and the Hungarian dairy industry is processed and placed on the market. It depends only on whether our consumers support Hungarian dairy producers by buying Hungarian milk. And in the European Union, we represent raising the ceiling for de minimis aid, making the conditions for intervention and private storage systems more favourable, providing new promotion opportunities, precisely to alert consumers to the usefulness of milk. In addition, strengthening contractual discipline and strengthening and recovering important export markets are all priorities. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-03-07-168	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, Member István Ikotity, representative of the LMP, wants to ask the Minister of Human Resources an immediate question: why can't the government fulfill its promises in education? It's an address. Minister has appointed Mr László Palkovics Secretary of State to respond to his urgent public mission. I respectfully ask the Member if he accepts the person who is responding. [[For signal:]] Congressman says he'll take it. Congressman István Ikotity has the floor. Here you go.
u2016-03-07-169	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, Why is it that you can't fulfill any of the government's promises fairly? Even the little that has been promised in education after a long time has not been solved fairly. I'll give you a current example: at the end of last year, the higher education wage increase was ringed. That didn't happen. Compared to the original plans, they finally received a bonus at the beginning of this year only from universities and colleges. At universities and colleges, teachers were not increased in basic wages, but they had everyone sign a contract to pay the allowance for their wages. These are temporary contracts ending at the end of the year. Like public education, teachers were deceived in higher education, and they received nothing from central support. Dear House, Contrary to the Fidesz-KDNP period, LMP claims that Hungary needs high value added jobs rather than assembly plants. To do this, we need to invest in education, including higher education. Quality education is a prerequisite for a sure existence of university and college workers. Dear Secretary of State, Are you surprised at the demonstrations when it has been clearly proven that only the joint cooperation of the participants in education, the exemplary standing of teachers, teachers, parents, students or students can bring results? Are you surprised that you do not believe the government's promises and appearances when you experience that positive changes are not being properly implemented every day? Dear Secretary of State, Why hasn't the higher education wage increase been achieved? I'm waiting for your answer.
u2016-03-07-170	Thank you very much, Congressman. Secretary of State László Palkovics responds to what has been said. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2016-03-07-171	Mr President, Dear House, Honourable Congressman, Thank you for asking. I think I've been given an opportunity to answer that. The government has kept all the promises that we promised last year in relation to higher education wage increases. Let's go over what we talked about. The promise was that the salaries of teachers, researchers and teachers in higher education will increase by 15 percent from January this year, by 5 percent from January next year and by 5 percent from January 2018. Once this amendment has been included, a technical solution to this is the Regulation Enabling that determines, for the year 2016, the supplement, which, by the way, amounts to the same amount, which settles this situation until the amendment of the Finance Act or until the 2017 budget. We agreed on this with the unions, and I think that the academics agreed on this in the same way. His second question is the development of the income of non-teaching, non-research and non-teaching staff at the university. Here, we also agreed with stakeholders that we would set a minimum salary increase, 150,000 forints, which is precisely because universities are not similar to each other, we left it to universities to figure out how to do it. Universities in the last two months, and I think that this will soon appear on the income papers, have agreed with trade unions on the form in which this increase appears differentiated, due to the structure of the university. I think the government has fulfilled the promise we made here. Universities will pay this amount, and their resources are also available, the resources that come from a stronger and better management of universities. Thank you. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-03-07-172	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. A one-minute rejoinder is the word of Congressman István Ikotity. Here you go, Congressman.
u2016-03-07-173	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, Several university instructors contacted me by showing this contract, which states that the basic salary will not change, but will receive a bonus by the end of the year. You may have agreed with the unions, but the press all over the place said so, and the academics knew that they were going to get a raise. The reason why a substitute is not a wage increase is very well illustrated by what has happened in public education in recent years: when they took away their allowances, it was not mentioned in a word. When this 15 percent supplement is frozen or taken from them, it will not be necessary to mention it, so you can take it away from them with the same momentum. You say that a wage increase has been granted, but there is no wage reduction, but you notice from one moment to the next that you will receive 15 percent less. Secretary of State, in higher education, educators should be lured into this career, not be deterred from this career by low salaries, to go abroad or to try to make a living on the market.
u2016-03-07-174	Thank you very much, Congressman. A one-minute rejoinder from the Secretary of State. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2016-03-07-175	Thank you very much. Mr President, Honourable Congressman, Dear House, I think that this issue will be clarified in a few weeks, when it will be clearly visible when planning the 2017 budget. I believe that the trust that has been established between the government and higher education institutions over the past period shows the adoption of a higher education strategy and the respect for the elements that the government is undertaking. I think that gives us enough ground to bridge the next three weeks in this way. Thank you. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] [[14.30]]
u2016-03-07-176	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Congressman Lajos Kepli, the representative of Jobbik, wants to ask the Minister of the Interior an immediate question: It's an address. Minister Károly Kontra has appointed Secretary of State to respond to the urgent public task. I respectfully ask the Member if he accepts the person who is responding. [[For signal:]] Congressman indicates that he accepts Mr Károly Kontra as a replyer. Congressman Lajos Kepli has the floor. Here you go.
u2016-03-07-177	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, In recent months, thanks to Fidesz, Siófok has been at the centre of the media's interest with negative news. There has been a series of corruption-suspecting cases linked to the previous city leadership, the former mayor of Fidesz, and you are unable to accept the loss of the city's mayor's seat, and you are constantly trying to discredit the current legally elected mayor whose biggest crime is to defeat the Fidesz and to increase its popularity in the city. And most of the Siofoks seem to be behind him. The latest scandal was that, last week, the police captain of Siófok, who had served as police captain in the city for years and whose activities had never been subjected to any negative criticism, both the county commissioner and the council accepted the city's public safety report with complete unanimity. By the way, he had a good relationship with the city's leadership, and he was good at working with the mayor. What's worst - because the Ministry of Interior has jurisdiction, Mr. Secretary of State, is to say when and who you put at the head of a city as police captain - that the mayor had to hear from the press that they were going to replace the Commissioner. Usually, it is appropriate to inform a mayor in advance at least by a short letter or verbal notice that the police department is preparing for such a thing, especially when the tourist season begins in a few months' time. We know Siófok is one of the busiest tourist destinations in Hungary, where there have been a large number of cases within the police. That's something to be prepared for months before. There have been all kinds of consultations between the local government and the police department. That's why the city's leadership, Mr. Mayor, doesn't understand why this exchange of police captains could have happened without warning. We would expect some kind of answer, a justification from the Secretary of State. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2016-03-07-178	Thank you very much, Congressman. I give the floor to Secretary of State Károly Kontra. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2016-03-07-179	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, We don't know that you claimed that most of the city is behind the current mayor of Siófok. We don't know if that's true, but it's clear that you're behind it. [[Intercoms from Jobbik's ranks.]] This can be seen not only from his present revelation, but also from his previous attitude, but also from his previous attitude, which seems to be in line with reality. Honourable Congressman, I would also like to state here that the police in all the settlements of Hungary are taking decisive action against all criminals for the sake of the safety of people's lives and property, public order and public security. I would also like to state that the police, the Hungarian police, will act without party influence in the performance of their tasks as defined in the Fundamental Law. It is the task of the police to ensure the right of defence, to prevent crime and to apprehend criminals. Today I requested information from the National Police Headquarters on personal changes in Somogy County. With effect from 1 March, two precincts, Siófok and Nagyatád, were involved. According to the information, the staff of police headquarters were informed of the changes on 1 March due to 29 February, namely the possibility of implementing and implementing them by means of the management orders provided for by the Act of Service. As regards the mayor of the four district headquarters, namely the mayor of Nagyatád, Csurgó, Tab and Siófok, the county chief of police also informed on the telephone about the personal changes that had been made, of which Siófok also informed the mayor of the city of Siófok. It is true that this information was given in order in the case of Siófok at the latest, but only because the mayor was not available. Thank you very much.
u2016-03-07-180	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Congressman Lajos Kepli has the floor for a one-minute rejoinder. Here you go, Congressman.
u2016-03-07-181	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. At least now we've found out what the Mayor of Siofok's crime is. The Jobbik support him. By the way, not only does Jobbik support him, but he's every good-hearted Siófok man who's had enough of a lot of corruption in recent years linked to the Fidesz city administration. And it is simply not true, according to the Mayor, that you informed him. He learned from the press that the police captain was being dismissed. In hindsight, he himself called the county commissioner and asked for information as to what the truth was about. They said it was the police's internal affairs, so don't interfere. Of course, it is part of the case that he knows exactly how this is going to happen, because he has served as the city's police captain for years, Mr. Mayor. He was introduced to the mayor in the proper manner and manner before the change took place and was appointed chief of police. This can and can be done as you do now, that neither the city's inhabitants nor the city's leaders have anything to do with who they put in the mayor's office. accept it up to two months before the beginning of the season, and there will be something. If public safety gets worse, they'll swallow it. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik. István Bol.István Bolog: The mayor is elected.]]
u2016-03-07-182	Thank you very much. A one-minute rejoinder from the Secretary of State. Here you go.
u2016-03-07-183	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, There are so many changes in your attitude that so far we have seen in Parliament that they do not support the law that strengthens order and public security. [[Intercoms from Jobbik's ranks.]] We could list a long register in the last six years, wouldn't we? But they didn't go as far as what you did today, Congressman, to attack the police. I'm asking you to stop this. Once again, the police carry out their tasks under the Fundamental Law in all areas of Hungary, including the city of Siófok, free of party political influence and party influence. I'm asking you to leave the police alone. The public interest is that the police perform their work effectively and serve the safety of people's lives and property, public order and public security in all the settlements of Hungary. I ask you not to lead your incompetence to the police. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-03-07-184	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, This brings us to the end of the immediate questions and thus to the end of the discussion of our agendas today. It is now time for the speeches after the agenda. I would like to inform the House that László Varju's statement after the agenda has been withdrawn. After the agenda, Mr President of the Jobbik Group, Member Novák, will be speaking:. Why did you wait a year to accept the proposal for a better one to reduce internet prices? It's an address. I'll give you the floor in a five-minute time frame. Here you go, Congressman.
u2016-03-07-185	Dear Parliament, In the debate of the NMHH's annual accounts, in its usually overnight debate, I talked about how expensive Internet usage charges are in Hungary every year. For example, I said that the third lowest share of mobile broadband users in Hungary in the EU is the third, and I also said that the government announcement that broadband will be everywhere by 2018 is misleading, because it will only be where they can pay the extraordinarily high internet charges, which are extremely high in international comparison. Let us see that domestic mobile internet charges are more than three times higher than Slovenia and the Czech Republic compared to gross average income, and the prices here are 23 times higher than Denmark. I also raised this problem in the debate on the advertising law, in which László L. Simon acknowledged, and I quote:. The Romanian mountain shepherds in the Fogarasi snows use the internet cheaper than we do here. 'This will cause a serious competitive disadvantage if we do not change in this area,' said the Secretary of State. All I can quote from him, Mr. President, is no need to be alarmed, no need to withdraw, no need to be obscene. The problem is that they did nothing after that statement. Although Marcell Tokody, representative of the Parliamentary Assembly of the capital of Jobbik, decided last April to investigate the possibility of free WiFi throughout Budapest, much has not happened since then either. That is why we continued to exert pressure until the government finally backed away, including from Jobbik's last spring signature collection action, one of the four questions of which was aimed at making the basic internet free. [[14.40]] The government therefore announced that it was planning to reduce VAT on internet charges. So last spring, I asked the government an immediate question, and I quote: "Do you know that the so-called VAT directive within the EU does not allow us to apply a reduced rate on the Internet? If they know that, what are they planning? That's what I asked, but we didn't get a meaningful answer. It took more than a year or nearly a year to read more specific thoughts about this from Tamás Deutsch today. Even last summer, I initiated a consultation with Tamás Deutsch, but the Prime Minister's Commissioner responsible for the national consultation on the Internet decided to cancel the meeting at the last minute, citing his job accumulation. After that, he referred to his long vacation, or to Jobbik's refusal to consult - and to add it ever since. It is correct that, despite its earlier promise, the prime minister responsible for the consultation refuses to consult in the system of national cooperation which has been mentioned a lot. [[Happy Stephen intervenes.]] He added that he had proposed a debauched version of Jobbik's proposals, without prior consultation, as in the case of the Internet tax. The government's slump is therefore not only uncredited but also unprofessional, as the reduction of the VAT on Internet charges is contrary to the VAT Directive of the EU, so that, by doing so, it is not possible to lower the extraordinarily high tariffs in the EU comparison, which would cause a serious competitive disadvantage for Hungary even with 18 percent VAT. However, from the advertising tax previously proposed by Jobbik, it would be possible to make the basic internet free of charge for which [[Happy István and György Szilágyi intervene.]] Wifi in the main squares of the settlements is a good step, as Tamás Deutsch recently suggested, since the best-run municipalities have already been tested for success under the auspices of the Internet-friendly settlements movement, but the Prime Minister has forgotten to refer to this. Since contracts were concluded for consultation on the Internet with a record VAT envelope of HUF 113 million, when I last looked at them, who knows where they are, I think it should have been agreed with an interested parliamentary party concerned. Instead, we read today from Tamás Deutsch's statement, for example, that the minimum goal in Hungary is to reach the EU average of 85 per cent in three years, 63 to 70 per cent of Internet users today. Let us add that some 40 percent of households in Hungary do not have the Internet, so I think this issue should be dealt with in a more specific way. However, in today's declaration, we could not see the deadline for the government to take the move, either in the European Union, to change the VAT directive, but this would be extremely urgent, because Hungary is now at a very serious competitive disadvantage because Viktor Orbán and his generation are actually unable to grasp the benefits of the Internet - it sees a danger in this, which is more a tax. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] He'd drop me off. That's why I'm asking you to accept Jobbik's suggestions. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2016-03-07-186	Thank you very much, Congressman. On behalf of the Government, Mr Csaba Dömötör, State Secretary, responds to what has been said. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2016-03-07-187	Honourable Congressman, The government pays particular attention to digital developments, so allow me to report on what is happening, where we are in this area. In the last year, the Cabinet has indeed conducted extensive consultations on the future of the Internet, involving tens of thousands of people, citizens, professional organisations and civil society organisations alike. Based on the responses received, it is clear that Hungarian people want a fast, super-fast, cheaper internet, which is accessible wherever possible. [[Mr. Novak intervenes.]] Steps must also be taken to improve the online administration and a comprehensive digital public education strategy is needed. At its December meeting, the government discussed the package of measures based on the results of the consultation on the InternetKon. One of the most important tasks of the coming years is the implementation of the Digital Prosperity programme. We really expect broadband to be available everywhere in Hungary by 2018, perhaps for the first time in Europe. [[Ancient Novak: At what cost?]] The government has designated Nyíregyháza as the location for the launch of the program, where this work is already under way. [[Dr. István Józsa: I'm sure it will work!]] In addition, the Cabinet commissioned the Ministry of National Economy to examine the possibility that the 18 percent VAT rate would cover Internet services. [[Dr. István Józsa: I need zero!]] Consultations with the competent bodies of the Union are also necessary in relation to how this is done. [[First of Novak: When does it start?]] The government would therefore also like to encourage the use of the Internet by means of a tax reduction, and this would also reduce prices. These tax reduction plans would otherwise fit in well with the general tax reduction philosophy of the government. As is known, from January onwards personal income tax has continued to decline and family tax incentives have been extended. As far as the general seriousness of Jobbik's proposals is concerned, you have previously laid down a statute banning job accumulation. Compared to this, the good-looking mayor of Ózd soon made a salary from five places. [[Interviews from Jobbik benches, including Dr. Gábor Staudt: How does that come about?]] Honourable Congressman, The government takes its own commitments rigorously, since creating digital well-being is one of the most important tasks of the coming years. We think that without this, the civil arrangement cannot be complete. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the benches of the governing parties. First of Novak: When will this happen?]]
u2016-03-07-188	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Mr Sebestyén Vácsó of the Jobbik Group applied for the post-meeting speech on the title of the situation report in Dunaalmás. I give you the floor. Here you go, Congressman.
u2016-03-07-189	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, Last Saturday I had the pleasure of attending a public forum in Dunaalmás village, a meeting of its representatives, which focused on events of the past few weeks, which shuddered the mood of the inhabitants of the village and the surrounding area. It was said that recently the mayor was contacted by a company called Homatech, which wanted to set up a reference plant in the administrative area of the village, not far from the village. This company belongs to Csányi's empire, and they wanted to set up a tire processing plant there. It is important to know about the history of this company that they have already tried to set up this rubber processing plant in Hungary once, in Százhalombatta, where they also wanted to set up this company in an industrial environment and set up this plant. Interestingly, this was rejected by the House of Representatives of 100halombatta. If it was rejected in that context - the suspicion of five local government representatives in Dunaalmás - should they be allowed to do so? If this was not allowed in the industrial area of an industrial city, why would a settlement on the Danube, once called the pearl of the Danube, do so? The company's reference plant is already in operation, not in Hungary, but in Dunaszerdahely. Two out of the five representatives, including Zoltán Vajas, a bajikos municipal representative, traveled to Dunaszerdahely, took pictures, interviewed the residents, and found that on the one hand, the plant is a very ugly sight, and they showed us pictures of it, and we could be sure of it; on the other hand, sometimes black dust covers the area; on the third hand, in Dunaszerdahely, you can sometimes smell an unbearable stench that flows from the direction of the plant to the city. This story raises some interesting things, otherwise it has a lot to do with it. Perhaps this is the result of one of its developments, as the mayor, Mr. Mayor Czeglédi, wanted to put this under very fast and very fast. That's why he called an emergency meeting. Of course, the municipal representatives knew what this was about, and five of them boycotted this municipal meeting, so there was no decision there. The mayor saw very well that he couldn't play politics by force, and he couldn't do it. Besides, it is also a question of why he wanted it so urgently, and why he wanted this plant to be installed at all costs in the vicinity of Dunaalmás, which is harmful to the environment and to the inhabitants. As a result, as he saw the opposition and saw the emotions and emotions that he generated either within the village or within the body of representatives, last Thursday at an extraordinary meeting, the municipality dissolved itself and informed the population that within 90 days the election office would issue the early elections. Of course, there are always consequences to rushing. There are consequences to this haste. It is not yet legally clear whether this self-disbanding of the municipality was legal. I'm not sure there's gonna be any early elections in the settlement. And what raises the question is this: on the one hand, once the company has been rejected in Százhalombatta, we can imagine the environmental impact of this. At this residential forum, environmental experts, chemical professionals and chemists also spoke, and they said that there is no such type of plant that is not harmful to the environment. The question is how the possibility of setting up such a plant in Hungary under current environmental standards could arise. [[14.50]] The question arises as to whether there is any connection between the authorisation of planting and the fact that the company empire, which is a member of this company, is one of Fidesz's known interests, belongs to one of the well-known oligarchs, one of the good people of the government. And that it belongs to his interest, and if there are no such observant municipalities as we have seen in Dunaalmás, can such a plant be installed next to the Danube, next to the now established, environmentally and naturally outstanding bicycle route, in the Danube river basin? From here I would also like to draw the attention of the local authorities in the surrounding settlements to keeping an eye on them, and if this company tries to do so in the near future, because they failed in Dunaalmás, say no, take an example of Dunaalmás. We don't want a plant like this around here. Thank you for listening. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2016-03-07-190	Thank you very much, Congressman. During the administration of Fidesz, Balaton has become a driving force on the development ranking of the Hungarian tourism regions, with the title Jobbik Group's MEP Lajos Kepli applying for the post-meeting address. Here you go, Congressman.
u2016-03-07-191	Thank you very much. Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, Mihály Witzmann, our pro-government colleague, sees and declares with great hurraoptimism the results of Balaton tourism in 2015, but let's face it that the pro-government representatives in this area also speak differently than they do in reality. [[This is a joke!]] A year ago, I also drew attention to the fact that, in view of the growth of the tourist regions in Hungary, Lake Balaton became an army driver. Unfortunately, I can't tell you anything else now, because in 2015 the region was only able to register a 1 percent increase, which is virtually within the margin of error, so it couldn't register any growth. Here in Parliament I told you last September that there might be trouble, as Balaton was also the only Hungarian tourist region in the first half of the year, where my guest night was falling. Each time the members of the government refer to the decline in my Russian guest nights in Hévíz, fewer Russians arrived in Hévíz, and therefore the total tourist season in Balaton decreased. But that is not true, because if we remove Héviz from the Balaton region and treat it separately, we managed to register a maximum 2% increase. The other argument is that it is already a tourism-developed region, where to grow here, everything is already at the top and at the top. This is not true because then we look at Budapest: the number of guest nights in Budapest is also not negligible, and yet it was able to increase even further by 6 percent compared to the previous year. Or we look at Balatonfüred within the Lake Balaton, which is a special case, since he was able to increase the number of guest nights by 9 percent in a single year. So only 1-2 percent of the total Balaton is included in this Balatonfüred plus 9 percent. I would add that if the mayor of Balatonfüred had managed the entire region with the same heat as his own city in previous cycles, the entire Balatonfured result would probably have improved, and not all the resources would have ended up in Balatonfüred. However, this shows that if there is an intention and an idea, there can be a source. You and the previous left-wing governments have completely abandoned the Balaton region, the necessary improvements have been missed, and this is now returning in these data. Now, when they got involved in applying for EU funds of around HUF 300 billion in the 2014-2020 development cycle, the rush started again, and at various Balaton Development Council meetings and other meetings they had ideas about what to do, to spend this 300 billion as if it were already in our pockets and could be spent on anything. But then it turned out that it could not be a Balaton dredge, which would be one of the most important problems; it could not be used, for example, for water level and flood protection solutions, which would now be a very important problem for southern coastal settlements in these rainy periods, since it is under half of Fenyves when there is a stronger northern windy sun. These problems should also be resolved, and many other problems that the Union simply does not support. It does not support, for example, tourism development, and investment in tourism development can be made on various detour routes. You would like a second ferry to Lake Balaton, whose economic return and justification are highly questionable, because the distance between Fonyód and Badacsony, while a ferryway does so, can also drive around Lake Balaton, and its fare, as the distance is much greater, would obviously be much greater than the ferry between Szántod and Tihany. Therefore, we consider this second Badacsony ferry to be an unrealistic and vicious idea, at least we have not yet seen any economic calculations. In relation to the reduction of the powers of the Balaton Development Council. You have now figured out that the three counties will have to coordinate the distribution of development money, Veszprém County, Somogy County and Zala County, which seems to be funny because, if this term can be used at all, since the county authorities have been completely discredited, there are no adequate administrative staff or resources available to carry out this activity. We don't know what's gonna happen, but I don't think you can see it yet. The point is that the Fidesz-led county authorities will land these funds, at least for you. The Balaton Development Council also received more resources in the 2016 budget because our amendment was swept off the table, but then, as its own motion, the budget support of the Balaton Development Council was slightly increased. However, it will not play much role in the distribution of money here. So there are no real ideas. You are planning a war factory for Balatonfűzfő, planning various industrial investments that are not from the Balaton region, but the development of tourism is not, and the figures show that your government policy has failed in this respect as well. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2016-03-07-192	Thank you very much, Congressman. After the agenda, Mr Zoltán Magyar, Member of the Jobbik Group, has applied for a new national treasure that has been destroyed. I give you the floor, Congressman.
u2016-03-07-193	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, We have talked several times, we have argued here between the walls of the House and at the Committee on Agriculture, about the reason why the Hungarian countryside, contrary to your communication, is not progressing, but rather moving backwards. Basically, there are three tools for governments at all times to interfere in the affairs of Hungarian agriculture and the countryside: property policy, support policy and the legislative environment that the current government is developing. Many times and many examples have shown that all three areas are going downhill, and Jobbik's strong opinion is that both property policy and support policy and the legislative environment point to the fact that the Hungarian countryside is considered by the government as a secondary area, from which resources are mainly transferred rather than, as it has promised and as it communicates today, developing this area. In addition, these are not just the three priority areas that we have mentioned here, but also agricultural innovation, research and development, I think you are losing in the past period. I would like to support it with a specific example, which was first published on Friday in the Hungarian Nation, and then the continuation of the article was published in today's news. This is Hortobágyi Nature Conservation and Génmegvédő Nonprofit Kft. I would like to raise your case, and I think that the story is worth it, that we should try to talk about it here within the walls of Parliament, and I hope that the Secretary of State will be able to give a substantive answer to this question. This is the state-owned nonprofit company, which recently had to give back its hard-earned bio-rating, at least that's what the news said, that he didn't want to give it back, but he did. Perhaps the Secretary of State will have an answer for what is behind it. With previous land lease applications, it is now only 8 000 hectares instead of 16,000 hectares. However, we know that this amount of land would be sufficient to provide a sufficient amount of feed corresponding to its own production of feed, but they claim that the fleet is not available, but that they are not able to do so, although the area is there, but they are not able to supply this livestock. And so the bio-rating failed, too. About 3,000 gray cattle, 1100 racks of sheep and mangalica, and nearly 300 horses are held by the company. So they say they don't even have grass plows and they're unable to clean up their feed. And, and I can believe that, because of the public procurement procedures, the process is that by the time the tender is announced and the winner is announced, six months will pass, and there is nothing left to make. In recent years, there have been constant changes in leadership. It is difficult to judge how well they were professionally founded, but knowing your policy, there could be doubt about that. In any case, by the time the new leader could have developed his own strategy, he would have been replaced. And the return of the bio-rating is also the result of this confusion. In fact, the company could say goodbye to its biggest customer, the baby food company HiPP, which bought the biomaterial from them, and which has been related to this company for two decades. Among other things, thanks to this cooperation, the Hungarian grey beef survived at all, as the Hortobágy company, in cooperation with HiPP, was able to expand this stock significantly. [[15.00]] HiPP Kft. Besides, grey beef and Hungary have also brought their reputation to the world, since 85 percent of their products are exported, proudly saying that their products come from our small country. This company is now forced to sign with new suppliers - we may also be able to look for state motivation here, but perhaps the Secretary of State will be able to answer that question - he will be able to obtain from new suppliers the 40-50 tons of meat they have obtained from this company each year. Foam on the cake the annual loss of HUF 240 million, which will also be sensitive to the body, would have received this amount as an additional premium for the production of organic feed. These two items will result in a half billion HUF loss. And then there's a few questions that I hope I'll get some answers to. With regard to these facts, the question arises as to what Hortobágyi Nature Conservation and Génmegvédő Nonprofit Kft. will be. His fate. Doesn't the Secretary of State see any sanda intentions in the background? Who, what government buddy needs the Hortobágy land? Or who's going to deliver the gray cow meat to the HiPP? Which government leader was looking for the bonus? How much loss does the Hungarian nation actually have from losing this company's bio-rating? And, Mr. Secretary, we'll keep the usual recipe. [[The President shall ring a bell to indicate the expiry of the time limit.]] I mean, the loss is always one of them, and the profit is always yours? I look forward to a meaningful response to these. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2016-03-07-194	Thank you very much, Congressman. On behalf of the Government, Mr István Nagy, State Secretary, responds to what has been said. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2016-03-07-195	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear fellow Member, We don't agree on everything, of course, and that's why I have to answer some of your questions. He says that the Hungarian countryside does not work, does not evolve. Immediately this first statement, allow me to deny it, because it is a serious statement that virtually everything shows the opposite. That there are difficulties and difficulties and that there is work every day, that there is a need to transform the estate policy system in order to create a new survival in the countryside, I think it is a natural process, as we move forward in time, as we do in the 21st century. We are entering the century, new and new challenges must be met, new and new expectations must be set for people living in the countryside as well. I think it was exactly this government. [[Adam Mirkóczki's intervention.]] which, in the greatest resistance, was able to reverse the policy of support, not to support the great estates, but to support the small ones. It supports and creates support for young farmers precisely because it has created an educational system so that as many people as possible can participate in Hungarian agriculture, i.e. the possibility of living in rural areas. I must say to you, we often argue about how the proportion of small plants and large plants should relate to each other. I would definitely like to make it clear that all of them are needed, because the large, leading, innovative, inspiring economic form can attract Hungarian capital, attract the knowledge industry that can arise either at the Hungarian Academy of Sciences or at the Hungarian Universities of Agricultural Sciences, and receive technical innovations that are naturally already available today, and this is absolutely necessary. It is what Hortobágyi Nature Conservation Nonprofit Kft. It is happening in his life, showing very well the difficulties he has to cope with, how he needs to find new and new answers to new challenges. I must say to you that the government's activities are very well characterised by its success in the field of nature conservation, its expansion of the areas of nature conservation itself. If you look at the narrowest Patriot, the Szigetköz, there is also great progress to be made, because if everything goes well, by the end of 2017, we can present the area of Szigetköz as a naturpark, of course with tens of thousands of hectares of land. I don't think that's gonna make it to the house. We are struggling with difficulties, and there are situations, situations where we may have to take a step back to gain strength and take two steps forward, and these processes are right now. He senses, yes, there are difficulties, and there are even tangible difficulties that often there is no grass scythe, but that does not mean that there will be no grass scythe. So, my fellow Member, what I can tell you is that, if there is a temporary difficulty, all the efforts show and aim at how these processes should come. Allow me here to reject these issues that are obviously arising from the opposition, their anger, their malice. Is there a sanda intention in this regard? I have to say to you that these nature reserves are so heavily protected that any government in Hungary would not be able to touch the nature reserves, so this is all under strict protection. Who delivers to HiPP? HiPP will decide, since it will be awarded public procurement, raced, and whoever can make the best offer will deliver, and when Hortobágyi Nonprofit Kft. will deliver. He'll be in a position to become a supplier again, then he'll be in the ring. I have to say, it wouldn't really be his job, it would be the production of breeding animals, the supply of breeding animals, that genetic conservation should be so high and so safe, because there is also a scientific activity there that we can be proud of, and I think we can show it as a guarantee in the future, preserving that value. Thank you very much for your questions. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-03-07-196	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, How much longer? Mr Dániel Z. Kárpát has applied for a speech on the agenda with a title from the Jobbik Group. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2016-03-07-197	Mr President, Dear House, Although I do not seem to be able to expect an answer, I am quite determined to bring the issue of those who have suffered foreign exchange credit back into Parliament again and again, since this problem is unsolved. Although the government announced on billboards that it had the banks accounted for and carried out a quote-marked account, statistics are stubborn. The figures of this show that the proportion of non-performing debtors unfortunately climbs to the level that was seen before the quotation. We can also see perfectly that although this government refused to extend the eviction moratorium by 1st, despite Jobbik's call, its gestures and rhetorics do not protect Hungarian families who are about to be evicted. We are quite amazingly concerned that he would allow more families to be evicted by the government of Hungary now than the banks want. After all, the representatives of the banks and precisely one of the leading bodies of the Hungarian executives explained, in a quotation sign, that we do not have to worry so much, because, according to an optimistic estimate, this estimate is optimistic on their part, there would only be 600 evictions this year. The Government of Hungary has given much more opportunities under quotas. We say that this number is incredibly high, you cannot allow hundreds of Hungarian families from a multi-thousand hat or even tens of thousands of hats to be at risk, and stand on the brink of inability to do so, to the very least, without their own fault. When I say that, for the most part, we always add a half sentence that, for example, we do not want to support arbitrary homeowners in their activities, so we do not want to extend the moratorium on eviction to them until the end of time, but indeed to those Hungarian citizens who follow the law who are in a very, very difficult situation because of banking, financial institution practices and games. The government's forinting action did not take place at the rate of the day of admission, as Jobbik suggested, but in such a way that hundreds of billions of forints were unduly credited to the banks from the money of foreign exchange lenders. Compared to this, we had to conduct a brief debate this morning in a parliamentary committee where the private failure was put at the forefront of interest as an institution to help victims. Here, too, we have mentioned that it is amazing and pathetic that, in all this time, all one or two hundred people seem to have been able to help, let's say, to conclude a contract with them on this subject. And instead of admitting that this otherwise highly transformable institution does not function in this form, it does not work, it simply made the victims responsible for not knowing enough and enough about this system on an extension of a deadline, obviously not in large numbers. [[15.10]] It did not even occur to the majority of government representatives that the victims might not come because, in the vast majority of cases, the free-spendable income per capita is less than the monthly wages of a public worker on the basis of the current private institution, and no one from debt slavery would want to be enslaved to such slavery and put their own heads under the gallows. That is why we can say that this system needs to be redesigned along Jobbik's trail, that it could still be redesigned in such a way that, on the one hand, a free-sourced, legalized family helper helps victims to communicate to the creditor's financial institution, clean these contracts together, recover as much money as possible for the victims. On the other hand, free retraining programmes should open the labour market to those who show any willingness to do so. At the same time, we have to tell you that there would be plenty more to do; with the encryption repulsive play around the Hungarian National Bank and its foundations, which the government is conducting, it will take hundreds of billions of forints to spend behind the curtain, or for good purposes or bad things. We're not gonna find out, because they're gonna keep it a secret. We have strong assumptions that those who spend it will not only walk in the path of honor - but what? The money of those who have suffered foreign exchange credit. After all, this benefit, which is public money, clearly results from the conversion of the so-called settlement of credit victims, a realised exchange rate gain, which Jobbik will place in a compensation fund, if it is possible, and from this we will help those who have been evicted or their families torn apart or put in such an impossible position - I say once again: they are in an impossible situation without their own fault - from which a responsible and national government would have a dog's duty to help them out. The Jobbik is determined to do so, and if you have to wait for you, we will take these essential steps by government. Thank you for your attention. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2016-03-07-198	Thank you very much, Congressman. Ladies and gentlemen, We have reached the end of the speeches after the agenda. I would like to inform you that the next Spring Session is expected to take place on Wednesday 16 March 2016. Thank you for your two weeks' work, this meeting is closed. [[The meeting ended at 3:12 p.m.]]
