u2016-11-23-0	[[The people in this room stand up and greet the voters' community. When the chairman of the meeting takes his seat, the people in the room will sit down.]] Dear Parliament, The 25th day of the autumn session of the Parliament is hereby opened. I would like to inform you that Mr Attila Móring and Mr Nándor Gúr will be here to assist me in leading this meeting. Welcome to our guests and to all those who monitor our work. Dear Parliament, A general debate between the Government of Hungary and the High Command for Allied Transformation and the European Supreme Command for Allied Forces on the publication of the draft law on the provision of national support for NATO operations, exercises and similar military activities until closure follows. Government referral T/12915. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, I give the floor to Mr Tamás Vargha, Secretary of State of the Ministry of Defence, author of the item on the agenda. Secretary of State, please.
u2016-11-23-1	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear Parliament, When we are discussing the proposal to announce the host national grant treaty, we are fulfilling our duty under the North Atlantic allies system. Host nation support is an important part of NATO's military activity. All civil and military services provided on an international stage by an host nation to the armed forces of another nation stationed, operating in, or passing through its territory in peacetime, crisis and conflict situations. In practice, the presence of two allies in each other's territory is either settled by specific agreements, international treaties, or general framework agreements facilitate cooperation. The aim of the agreement on general permanent national support before us is to reduce the time needed to negotiate agreements and to apply as a framework agreement both in practice and in the interest of allied forces passing through any operation, i.e. to have an immediately applicable agreement at any time. The Contracting Parties to the Agreement are the Hungarian Government on one side, as well as the two strategic headquarters of NATO, the command of the Alliance Transformation Supreme Commander and the European Supreme Command of the Allied Armed Forces. The text of this Agreement was finalised in spring 2016 and the Agreement was signed on 5 July 2016. Pursuant to Act L of 2005 on the Procedure for International Contracts, the entry into force of the Agreement requires recognition of its statutory publication and its binding effect. On the basis of the principle of responsible ally thinking in NATO, no State can profit from the inclusion of the association's activities, since they are always related to the common defence capability. The same principle does not only favour the NATO military force abroad in Hungary, but also favours the forces of the Hungarian Defence Forces on a reciprocal basis if they operate in the territory of another Member State on the basis of the agreement concluded by the other Member State. The purpose of this Agreement is to establish directions, procedures for the establishment of operational sites and the provision of inclusive national support, in which NATO forces in or from the host nation are assigned to NATO military activities. That is to say, this agreement creates a general framework for the implementation or transit of the forces assigned to NATO-led operations in the territory of the host nation to ensure real logistical support for the forces, while using the resources of the host nation, in this case Hungary. Host national support should implement the principle of ensuring the necessary financial resources and services in a timely and timely manner, taking into account cost-effectiveness. This agreement is, of course, in line with NATO Doctrine and Guidelines and provides an umbrella agreement and a system of operations for receiving national support. This Agreement alone does not provide for specific measures to be taken with regard to host national support or for the level of national support. For each specific activity, it is necessary to conclude agreements at a lower level. However, they can be concluded much faster in the case of an inclusive national grant agreement which has already been concluded and entered into force. As is known, the government decided in 2015 to set up an integration unit of NATO forces in Hungary, which will be a command in the structure of the NATO military force, partly with Hungarian and partly with foreign personnel. The preparations for this are in an advanced state. After the preparations, the organization set up in Székesfehérvár was activated by the North Atlantic Council with effect from 1 September 2016 and the ceremonial transfer of buildings to which the unit, briefly called the NFIU, will be settled took place in Székesfehérvár on 18 November. The main task of this organisation is to prepare and support NATO's practices and operations in Hungary. In order to fulfil the task of the NFIU, it is also essential to have the agreement contained in this bill, since the legal framework for receiving practices or operations in Hungary is set out in this agreement. That is why I respectfully ask my fellow Members to support the legal publication of this agreement by voting in favour. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-11-23-2	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, The speeches will now be held by the keynote speaker. I give the floor to Mr Zsolt Csenger-Zalán, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2016-11-23-3	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear fellow Members, As the Secretary of State said in his expo, the Act on Host National Aid before us is a very important document in our cooperation with NATO. Hungary joined NATO in 1999, and the first joint document on certain host national aid was adopted in the old NATO Member States only in 2004. The first initiative from SHAPE, the European High Command to Hungary, was concluded only in the following year, i.e. 2005. The negotiations were held around 2009 and the negotiation and conciliation of this international convention started again in May 2014 in the Ministry of Defence, which was completed by spring 2016. The General Permanent Host National Aid Agreement is therefore a general framework and aims to shorten the time needed to negotiate current agreements and to apply as a kind of umbrella or framework agreement both in the implementation of practices and in the implementation of operations, at any time an immediately applicable agreement and an applicable agreement is available. The present agreement was signed on 30 June 2016 by Dr. Zoltán Oros, Deputy Chief of Staff of Honvéd, and General Werner Freers on 5 July 2016 by Chief of Staff of SHAPE. [[8.10]] The parties to the agreement are therefore the Hungarian Government on one side and the two strategic headquarters of NATO on the other side, namely: the Supreme Commander of the Allied Transformation and the European Supreme Command of the Allied Armed Forces, this is the SHAPE in Belgium. The rule in NATO is that no state can profit from the inclusion of federal activities, since they are always linked to the common defence capability. The same principle favours the Hungarian Defence Forces on a reciprocal basis if they operate in the territory of another Member State, on the basis of their own agreement between the other Member State and SHAPE, i.e. a similar agreement. The agreement is therefore, once again, a framework document on the basis of which the parties undertake to carry out the tasks related to the host national support, to fulfil their rights and obligations, with the condition that, in the light of the specific task, the details are determined in the form of specific documents, with their acceptance. The Agreement establishes a general framework for the implementation or transit through the territory of the host nation of the forces designated in NATO-led operations to ensure real logistical support for the forces, while using the resources of the host nation. Support for the host nation should implement the principle of ensuring the necessary financial resources and services in a timely and timely manner, taking into account cost-effectiveness. The agreement sets out precisely the forces to which the law applies and this memorandum: all components of NATO-led forces which include all personnel, animals, tools and supplies, together with the civilian components of these forces. The concept also includes all ships, aircraft, vehicles, supplies, equipment and ammunition, as well as all means of air, land and sea movement. It also defines the acts to which the Agreement applies. The scope of the Act covers practices, training, operational experiments and similar activities, or the performance of military, military, service, training or administrative tasks carried out by forces, the process of continuing the fight, including attacks, movement, care and all operations necessary to achieve the objectives of an act of war or campaign. I would particularly like to stress that the agreement aims at cost-effectiveness, and accordingly states that, in the interests of support, the host nation will consult with support sources, including civil and commercial resources. Aid from trade shall be obtained by tendering procedure from the lowest bidder. For the purpose of determining the reimbursement of resources to the forces, the host nation shall keep administrative and financial records. The records used to document transactions financed from NATO's budget should be made available to NATO upon request for audit and the agreement also states that the quality of the products and services supplied by the host nation corresponds to the follow-up document, i.e. the detailed conditions set out in a separate document. I think it is very important that environmental protection is also mentioned. In drawing up the follow-up documents, i.e. special arrangements, the host nation shall provide the NATO Commander with a copy of the rules on health, safety, environmental protection and agriculture in the English language which may relate to the NATO military operation and those relating to the storage, movement and disposal of dangerous substances. To sum up, the negative changes in the security environment in the transatlantic area, and in particular in Europe, require the most effective and close military cooperation in NATO Member States. As a member of the Alliance on the eastern and southern borders, it is particularly important for our country to create the conditions for close and effective cooperation required by the situation. The signing of the Host National Aid Agreement is a major step forward to this end. The National Assembly hereby authorises the recognition of the mandatory scope of the Agreement between the Government of Hungary and the Supreme Commander of the Allied Transformation and the European Supreme Command of the Allied Armed Forces on the provision of national support for NATO operations, exercises and similar military activities. I therefore ask, with respect to my fellow Members, that T/12915. Please support bill number 1. Thank you very much for your attention. [[It's a rare round of applause from the pro-government ranks.]]
u2016-11-23-4	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congresswoman Márta Demeter, the lead speaker of the MSZP Group. Here you go, Congresswoman.
u2016-11-23-5	Thank you very much. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Secretary. Since the beginning of our NATO membership, a number of improvements have been made in Hungary, and many of the positives that this membership has already brought to Hungary. So I would like to highlight international practices, the implementation of developments, the introduction of strategic planning and culture in Hungary and its continuous development, and in any case we must highlight it, as NATO is not only a military but also a political alliance, that Hungary's ability to assert interest has, of course, also increased greatly, as we are talking about an intergovernmental organisation where everyone is an equal party to joint decisions. As we have seen in recent years, our security environment has seriously deteriorated, and we have faced many new challenges. Following the events of recent years, two, we can say, historical summits took place in Wales and Warsaw. At these summits, there have been particularly positive decisions for the future, decisions to ensure that we move towards security, and it is natural that all Member States must strive to implement these decisions according to their best knowledge and resources. In these decisions, I would like to highlight what Mr. State Secretary has already mentioned in part, both in the VGTF and in the NFIU, which I think is very welcome. One is to participate in the practices and activities of the very high-prepared, multi-national forces, and the other is to create an element integrating NATO forces here in Hungary and Székesfehérvár. So it is clear that, because of changes in the security environment, we need to strengthen NATO's defence capabilities and, of course, Hungary is also involved in this. In order to achieve this effectively, it is necessary to strengthen or expand the existing legal framework, as it can ensure that we both strengthen protection and enhance practices, prepare for possible operations, and, of course, training is an extremely important element. [[8.20]] Several people have mentioned the host national support before me, which is of course one of the foundations of our participation in the Alliance. We also need to strengthen this further. The document before us is a framework document between the two strategic headquarters of NATO and Hungary, which does not regulate all the details, but it is natural to increase efficiency in time and give stability that is absolutely necessary for the future. So far, such an agreement has been concluded with 23 Member States. The host national aid must implement the principle of providing the necessary financial resources and services in a timely and appropriate place. The coverage of the insurance resource will be regulated in a bilateral or multilateral follow-up document and, of course, all parties will be involved. This is a very important point, and not only in increasing the efficiency of the alliance, but I also think that this is an appropriate incentive for the Hungarian government to provide adequate resources. The Convention will be concluded in such a way that, of course, both parties are committed and both parties are granted mutual benefits. This is therefore an absolutely balanced initiative. In the explanatory memorandum to the proposal before us, the government mentions the NATO measures introduced as a result of the crisis in Ukraine. In this context, we can also talk about the NFIU, which, I think, is a very positive initiative, and it is a good thing that this is happening. I would therefore like to point out here that, as I said, this agreement is welcome, the MSZP will certainly support this. As I have just mentioned, the situation in Ukraine is referred to by the government, but I would like to point out that this should not only be implemented by such measures. I'm obviously moving to a political level here. It was very sad to see that, following the Russian aggression in Ukraine, the Hungarian Prime Minister did not clearly condemn this act of Russia. I hope that in the future it will also be more stable in favour of Ukraine and Ukraine's territorial integrity. With regard to the Convention, I would like to point out that we have obviously all heard a lot of comments about why any development is needed here, since NATO will protect us. It is important to clarify that NATO is ourselves and that the host national support is a foundation for our country and for the protection of the Alliance. In the same way, resources are needed to ensure receiving national support, just as it is necessary to maintain the functioning of the Hungarian forces and to continuously develop their capabilities. In this way, it is also positive that the government places greater emphasis on receiving national support. I hope that it is indeed a motivation to finally increase defence expenditure more effectively and to a greater extent. I am sure that my fellow Members have been used to trying to draw attention to the developments and steps that are needed in relation to the Hungarian Defence Office in order to maintain operational capacity and to further develop. I would like to point out that, although the Government committed itself in 2016 in a resolution to increase the GDP-to-GDP budget by 0.1 percent, I think that this increase is not enough, a more marked increase would be needed. In this way, the government has a plan until 2026. I would like to point out here that we are familiar with Article 5 of the NATO Treaty and we mention it a lot. Collective protection is a fundamental foundation for NATO and is indisputable. However, politics often forgets about Article 3, which is about maintaining national forces, improving their functioning and improving capabilities. We have to keep an eye on this. I therefore believe that the defence budget needs to be increased to 2 percent of GDP as soon as possible. This is not only an ally requirement, but it is also clearly in our own national interest to have an effective and modern defence that can meet the requirements of the 21st century. The challenges of the century. However, in order for the budget to reach 2 percent of GDP, the 2026 or a later date is very far removed from the current state of the force, therefore a more marked increase is required. By 2022 at the latest, the Hungarian Defence Agency's budget should reach 2% of GDP. There is also a need for a change of perspective, which is closely linked to this. So we need task-based planning, not scarce resource-based, to see how much money we've been able to squeeze out of this, and what we can do about it. I think that this approach cannot continue. I would also like to mention for a moment the importance of strategies, as this obviously requires a strategic approach. I understand that both the national security strategy and the military strategy are being modified and adapted. I stress that every strategy is worth as much as the resources are assigned to it. That's his alpha and omega. This is the basis for the implementation of any strategy, and I very much hope that this will be taken into account in the process of strategy-making. At least as important is the use of resources within the structure, because if there is a sharper increase in the defence budget than it is now - we know that, unfortunately, in 2017 only 0.94 percent of GDP will be the Hungarian Defence budget - so if there will be an increase, which is absolutely necessary, then these resources will have to be used efficiently within the system. So it is clear that increasing defence expenditure is nothing more than a matter of political will. I think that there is a growing decline in the resistance of the population to increasing defence spending across Europe and the world. It is high time that the policy paid off its debt to raise defence expenditure. I would like to draw the government's attention to this. The specific proposal on receiving national aid before us is, of course, fully eligible by the MSZP fraction. Thank you very much.
u2016-11-23-6	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr Firtl Mátyás, the lead speaker of the KDNP Group. Here you go.
u2016-11-23-7	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Dear House, In a changed security environment, NATO, along with its allies, must address new challenges. These include the war in Ukraine, the activity of the Islamic State, illegal immigration, increasing terrorist threats, energy security, and the stability of the southern and south-eastern part of Europe, the Western Balkans, its security policy issues. In addition, technological progress has involved new areas of protection and security, including the protection of land, seas, air and cyberspace. In the critical security situation, it is important for the strong military, political NATO alliance that 28 countries, and soon 29 countries, are able to fulfil their mission in a coordinated manner with close cooperation and a modern tool system, with a fundamental aim of security and defence. Europe and the Member States of the European Union must make continuous efforts to guarantee the protection of themselves and their citizens. [[8.30]] Here's a thought I'd like to make. Just now, my fellow Member has long described how to make a 2-percent budget contribution to GDP. This is indeed necessary, and I say so, but here in Parliament we say that Hungary is not the only country, and countless other countries do not do the same. I agree that this must be done, but I would like it to be said in Parliament that Hungary is not the exceptional example, but Hungary is one of them. It is not for nothing that I have just said that the European Union's states must also do their best to do so. Responding to new security challenges should also be given to Hungary in a close federal system, in which the effectiveness of cooperation is essential. We can say that Hungary, as a member of the NATO Alliance, is the originator and creator of the strengthening of European security, in line with NATO doctrines and guidelines, but also, where appropriate, taking into account the reception declaration. The host national grant agreement, which is a framework document, represents another significant step forward in fulfilling our NATO federal mission, as has already been said. Thus, T/12915. The aim of the agreement on the provision of host national support in the implementation of bill No 3, NATO operations, exercises and similar military activities is to establish guidelines, procedures for operational sites and the provision of host national support. In the NATO environment, the principles of host national support should be applied by ensuring effectiveness and cost-effectiveness, while taking into account the coordinated planning of NATO-led military activities, the needs of the sending nation, and the means available, and making it clear. It is important that planning and development prior to the actual need for use of assets will enable the host national support, i.e. all available civil and military services, to be implemented as effectively as possible in terms of the effectiveness of cooperation when the need actually arises. Ladies and gentlemen, I think it is important, too, and I would like to call on this House that last week the creation of an Element integrating NATO Forces in Székesfehérvár is another important confirmation that our country is a committed and prepared ally of NATO, which will enhance Hungary's security and sovereignty. We also believe that cooperation between NATO and the EU is crucial, with Hungary also fulfilling its obligations as an ally. This is why we should thank all our Hungarian countrymen, Hungarian soldiers, who serve in NATO alliances. I also mention that last week took place in the 20th. For a NATO conference here in Budapest, which indicated, among other things, that Hungary is a committed, solidarity-based, cooperative, reliable ally to NATO, it will fulfil its commitments both now and in the future. This will be further strengthened by the agreement to be concluded. Among the three pillars of Hungary's security, in addition to our NATO alliance relationship, the sacrifice of Hungarian citizens, we must also mention the process of improving the ability of the Hungarian Defence Agency, which strengthens our commitment, reliability and professional recognition within the federal system. The aim is to ensure sufficient protection, stability and tranquility not only for Hungary, but also for Central and Eastern Central Europe and its development. Ladies and gentlemen, The KDNP faction is convinced that the changes in the security environment in the transatlantic area, and in particular in Europe, can be adequately addressed by the military cooperation of sufficiently prepared, effective, close and coordinated NATO Member States, in order to ensure the security of all of us. Therefore, on behalf of the faction, I recommend to Parliament the bill. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-11-23-8	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr Gergely Kulcsár, the lead speaker of the Jobbik Group. Here you go.
u2016-11-23-9	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, The bill before us was presented in quite detail by the speakers before me, so I wouldn't go into the details. Of course, Jobbik also acknowledges that as members of the military alliance, as members of NATO, we have obligations and have repeatedly underlined and spoken about the changed security environment in Europe, such as the crisis in Ukraine, the recovery of the Islamic State and other matters. Our NATO membership and NATO obligations are recognised by Jobbik and we can support the proposal before us. However, I must draw attention to the fact that there are also serious problems in federal policies of the current government and previous governments. We believe that the Orbán government and the previous MSZP governments are pursuing a failed federal policy. We have often noticed that the government has acted as a minister of foreign interests in this area. What I mean about recent issues and the current Fidesz regime: foreign missions. Jobbik's firm position was that we should not send Hungarian soldiers abroad. Just as we do not want foreign soldiers stationed in our country, our soldiers do not participate in foreign missions that are not for the benefit of the nation, but for foreign interests. What exactly am I thinking? Mostly to fight against the Islamic State, ISIS. Our soldiers will be sent to Iraq, in a very dangerous field, and we will endanger not only their lives, but also the security of our country, putting Hungary at safety risk. In addition, we believe that participation in Baltic airspace protection is also a serious mistake on the part of the government. This is not an international obligation, it is not a NATO obligation, it is a voluntary task, but it is also a wrong move for the security of our country. The government is acting in accordance with the geopolitical interests of the United States, and this is not really a friendly move against Russia. I would like to mention one more thing in this row, which is also one of the flaws of federal policy, and this is a story from a few years ago, relating to the V4 battle group. In the Visegrád Four battle group, there was an opportunity for Ukraine to be included in this battle group. Even then, Jobbik has spoken against it, because Ukraine is not a member of the V4 and the military alliance in which we are. It's also a step that the Russian lion's mustache is being pulled by the government. In this regard, too, we have been told that this is indeed a necessary and appropriate step. We also believe that this was a serious mistake. Returning to the proposal: it is indeed necessary for NATO Member States to cooperate effectively and closely in today's situation, and Jobbik will therefore support this proposal. I would also like to comment on what the previous Member, Márta Demeter, has already mentioned, and this is the NATO forecast that Hungary has not been doing for many years, decades. This is a 2-percent national defence expenditure, which is less than 1 per cent now, and we believe that it should indeed be directed towards achieving this 2 per cent in the foreseeable future. But in six years, we didn't see much progress during the Fidesz government. [[8.40]] With all due respect, I would like to ask the members of the government, Mr Secretary of State, to keep up with the development of defence, as the states in our environment have taken the steps to improve and strengthen their forces. We are lagging behind in this area, and there is also a need for serious action to be taken. I would like to stress once again that we will support this proposal, but in defence policy we need serious changes, so that Hungary has a serious, serious army and military force. Thank you so much for listening. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2016-11-23-10	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. Independent Members shall not take part in the debate. No one came forward for a two-minute speech. I now give the floor to Mr Béla Turi-Kovács, the Member has asked for an opportunity to speak in a normal time frame. Here you go.
u2016-11-23-11	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I think that there is an exchange of views here on something far more important than some would think. The state and state of the Hungarian army must be constantly concerned not only with the government but also with the public. It is obvious that the kind of danger that threatens Hungary on the one hand by terrorism, but on the other hand, the conflicts between the great powers in which we do not wish to participate, but in which we do have to be marginally present, clearly require that the Hungarian forces have a much better supply of equipment than the current population. This can only be supported. In my view, this is a step, not a big step, but it is an important step, which is now included in this proposal. I agree that, at this time, the Deputy Staff must be strengthened, of course the Honvéd staff, and the officer staff can play the role to which it is called. But this does not mean that this development needs to be completed, it does not mean that it does not need to be continued, on the contrary: if we succeed in raising the deputy officer's staff and there is a well-trained deputy officer's staff, this will in itself require that appropriate officer's staff, young officer's staff, be returned. Consequently, I consider the development of the force not a step, but a process. I believe that it would be appropriate and appropriate not only to define this process, but also to define its direction, including its theme, and the future periods. This is of primary importance for those who have chosen this career as a career in life. For them, this is not a cycle of opportunity, but their lives will take place here, the part of the worker, the part of which he will be able to actively act in the field of defence. I therefore believe that we cannot be small-handed here in this area. And yet another very important issue here, which must not be forgotten: public opinion is not sufficiently informed about how important this is. Indeed, it must be made clear to the public that Hungary's security of these future victims - because I am convinced that there are also sacrifices to be made in order to improve - is not being aimlessly and not being unreasonable, but because it is strictly necessary. I would like to draw attention to what Jobbik's representative has said here, namely: Russia's role here today, in Europe and in the world. I think that this is also a question that is carefully, according to party policy, who so, who so appreciates it. I say it's worth looking back to history. It is quite clear in history that Russia has its potential for expansion, and it always tries to make full use of it, except for a short period of time. It is no coincidence that the targets on his part take place in two directions, traditionally to the Baltic States, but also to the Balkans traditionally, and indeed, I must say that in both its denominational, religious contexts and historical contexts, these are even somewhere understandable from the Russian perspectives. It is quite clear that when Izvolsky once expressed the Russian position that Russia's security is somewhere in the Balkans and therefore cannot afford Bulgaria, they cannot afford Serbia, I think these truths are still valid today. Consequently, Hungary must be prepared to be able to defend its borders with a sufficient and strong force and to be clearly placed within a federal system that can contain guarantees. It doesn't mean anti-Russia, it doesn't mean anti-Russia. In the area of Hungary, every time it began to pursue an anti-Russian policy rigidly, it always struck back. When we clearly took a position in favour of bismarcky policy and put down the garast with Andrássy, there was doubt, even under other conditions, whether the Western system of relations could be dropped, then French. We're in a much luckier position today. I have to say that the Hungarian Government's ambitions that clearly show that it is committed to NATO and that the European Union has started - and this must also be said - an initiative which must, sooner or later, necessarily create an EU force, are the government's declaration and the kind of commitment that we want to be not only a part of this, but also an important initiative, should be strongly supported. I am convinced that NATO's role in the coming times, I do not want to go into such far-reaching discussions, but obviously, since it is a transatlantic organisation, and although it was originally specifically for the protection of Europe, NATO is now in the world and not only in the area it was originally created for, and therefore Europe must also ensure that it can protect its own borders and its own security. This was the subject of the Prime Minister's many misinterpreted statements in which he clearly supported the creation of this force. For my part, I believe that this dual task cannot be fulfilled without improvements. I repeat, if this is a first step and as a first step it means that we want to continue this in the coming time, then this proposal is really sensible and good. Dear House, I would suggest that, in the coming times, I should say, first of all, that somewhere in the area of declarations, we may need to be more careful. In the field of what role we wish to play in those colonial post-war fights - I like to call them - it is basically about this in many parts of the world, whether in this area, where we have never otherwise been interested, what role we should play. I believe that, as a result of the position of an ally, the exclusion of engagement cannot be required. It would simply mean breaking up the alliance, but the efforts in this area can and must be presented in such a way that it is clear to all Hungarian citizens that what is really happening is that we will strengthen Hungary's security by strengthening the alliance. During the next period, I believe that action that is successfully and effectively carried on in many parts of the world, obviously on the part of a small army, should be made more public, so that it is clear that it is not their job to solve the situation there, but to protect the country through these solved tasks. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-11-23-12	Thank you very much, honourable Member. Dear Parliament, I'm asking if anyone else would like to speak on the agenda. [[No signal.]] I don't see any contact. The general debate is closed. I give the floor to Mr Tamás Vargha, State Secretary, who wishes to respond to what has been said in the debate. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2016-11-23-13	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Thank you very much, thank you for the supporting contributions, we had a really important agreement, we had a debate. We have succeeded in this debate more excitingly than we could have expected from the title of the proposal. We agree on a lot of things with my fellow Members, even with opposition representatives. Certainly not on one thing; in the case of Ukraine, Prime Minister Viktor Orbán and the Hungarian Government have said very strongly that we stand for Ukraine's territorial integrity every time that was necessary. [[8.50]] In fact, he added that we have added every time that the situation of minorities in Ukraine, in Transcarpathia, is very important to us, and that is also a very, very important issue, and that is why we are doing so. We talked about the defence budget of 2% or not 2% of GDP. We must know, and we must not forget, that in 2010 this government took over Hungary's governance in a completely different economic environment, and in the situation that we inherited this country, there was no other option, no possibility; it was possible to maintain the defence budget at that time. I recall that in 2012, the government committed itself to an increase of 0.1 per cent of GDP, which it then extended on a later occasion. So every time we saw that Hungary's economic strength and performance enabled us, we took action, and this is certainly going to happen in the future. My colleague Mátyás Firtl is absolutely right, two or three of the NATO countries account for 2%, the others are far, far below him, so we are not in the minority club, but in the majority club. Of course, this does not excuse anyone from failing to comply with a requirement, but in order to make the situation clear, this is part of it. Of course, we also agree that the development of forces is necessary, and we also agree that Article 3 is very important in addition to Article 5. It is a bit strange for me to draw attention to the importance of Article 3 from the benches of the MSZP, since between 2002 and 2010, it was precisely the government led by the MSZP that had developed this defence not only in numbers, but also in strength, since complete non-weapon cultures disappeared with arms, or removed those which now need to be rebuilt by 2010. But we agree that Article 3 is as important as Article 5; it is not possible in an alliance to just and exclusively expect and build that someone will come and protect us, and we must, of course, take part in this. I trust that the congresswoman will support the ideas for the development of forces and the concrete steps when they come before the Parliament or the committee, and we will not be in the position that we were put in yesterday, the day before yesterday, that she has called so much upon us in the matter of compensation for the victims of the Honvéd Health Fund, and when we have taken the decision and submitted it to Parliament, we have not received the support exactly from where we were most asked to take this step. Honourable Congressman, Federal policy was not defined by governments - the Hungarian people decided to join NATO's federal system in a referendum. And the suggestion or opinion you've given me about the mission role, specifically the fight against ISIS, I beg your pardon, I can't call it anything other than the nonsense you're saying when you say it's dangerous to fight. Yeah, fighting is dangerous, and it's a security risk that ISIS is fighting a terrorist organization with the coalition of about 60 countries. That is precisely the security risk, honourable Member, if everyone is saying that it is dangerous to fight on the one hand and that it is a security risk to my country, they will not go there or fight. It is a much greater security risk if no one defeats that terrorist organization, because they will be here in Europe in a few days without any control or resistance. So the exact opposite is true: challenges must be faced, bravely. In the Baltic airspace protection, the Hungarian Defence Office has protected the airspace of NATO countries, excellently; thank you very much for the excellent work of both pilots and technical staff. We do this every day to protect NATO's unified airspace, they are on duty to Grip every day, and we provide not only Hungary, but also Slovenia's airspace protection every day. I think it deserves more recognition than criticism. As far as the concrete proposal is concerned, I think it is very important that, in many cases, logistical support, formerly known as military food support, is not widely acknowledged, forgetting its importance. Let me remind you of just one example: in World War II, after the landing in Normandy, the excellent army of General Patton met with difficulties precisely because it was moving forward very quickly, because it had an excellent army and excellent soldiers, and the difficulties were precisely caused by the lack of logistical support on the extended supply routes. Therefore, logistics is very important, and this proposal before us is therefore important. Once again, I would ask my fellow Members to vote in favour. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-11-23-14	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, The amendments may be submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. Dear Parliament, Next up is the 35/2013 Hungarian Defence Office, which has a detailed breakdown. General discussion of the decision amending the decision until closure. The government referral is H/12926. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, I give the floor to Mr Tamás Vargha, Secretary of State of the Ministry of Defence, author of the item on the agenda. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2016-11-23-15	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, The aim of the proposal before us is to correct the authorised number of Hungarian Defence Forces. Pursuant to the Act on Defence and the Hungarian Defence and Measures in Special Law, the National Assembly determines the number of the defences, including the voluntary reserve soldiers, with a detailed breakdown. This obligation was fulfilled by the Parliament in 2013 in its Parliamentary Resolution No. 35. In more than three years since the date of entry into force of the Decision, changes in the security environment, the development of defence organisations on the basis of government and sectoral decisions have led to the need to review and change the number of authorised numbers, the number of numbers. Therefore, the government is proposing to the Parliament a resolution to change the authorised number of defence officers, to increase from exactly 29 700 to 31 080, and thus this resolution, if the Parliament accepts, corrects and improves the internal personnel ratios of defence, as it leaves the authorised number of officers unchanged and increases the number of permitted statuses by 1380% in the Petty Officer and Crew Group. I would like to stress that the decision does not relate to the actual number of defences, but to the determination of the maximum number of posts that can be organised in the defence organisation. Some concrete improvements, decisions that underpin this shift in numbers. [[9.00]] The changes to the tasks of the Hungarian Defence Health Centre have been carried out at several stages, so in connection with the partial transfer of the tasks of some hospitals, civil servants have been organized and military status has been organised as a result of the transformation of the defence-health task system. In order to optimise garrison, police and accident crime scene tasks other than basic orders, these tasks were transferred to a new central military organisation and new military status had to be organised to ensure centralised garrison, police and accident location tasks. The Hungarian Defence Office II was founded. Árpád Vitéz is a special regiment of Árpád Vitéz, who had to grant new status in order to establish his management and insurance bodies. In order to reduce the lack of peace in the army, we have strengthened the military organization that recruits the military, and we have created a new mid-level organ of complementing and training. In some defence organizations, we have also confirmed the necessary security and service functions, without the need for completeness, these measures, these improvements justify a change in the authorised number. Of course, since we have heard the question or speech here in Parliament many times concerning the vacant posts, I would like to advance this question now, and it will certainly be said why we want to increase the number of frames when there are uncharged posts. A hierarchical organization that is built pyramidally, such an organization, for example, consists of three stages of the century, a section of three divisions, and if there are uncharged posts in it, we must strive to fill these uncharged posts. It's a recruitment issue, but if it's necessary to create assignments for another unit, another unit, then we can't take it from this century, because if we take it away, then the squadron is no longer a phase, the century is no longer a century. So we must strive to fill up the existing organisation and build up new organisations with this increase in the number of employees. That is why this proposal for a resolution before us is very important, and I call on my fellow Members to support it with their vote. Thank you very much.
u2016-11-23-16	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Now we're going to hear the speeches from the lead speaker. I give the floor to Congressman Vas Imre, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group. Here you go.
u2016-11-23-17	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, The proposal for a resolution presented by the Minister for Defence would increase the upper limit for regular posts in defence organisations, as Mr Secretary of State said, from 29 700 to 31 080, which represents an increase of some 138 percent, which, by the way, means an increase of 4.6 percent in the number of staff. This does not include voluntary reserve staff, provisional staff and health modification in the Honvéd Hospital for the benefit of the population. The Secretary of State also gave a number of reasons why it was necessary to change the staff base, set up new organisational units, but let us not forget that, in line with the challenges arising from the migration situation, the development of defence organisations and the task system provided by military organisations have been significantly altered, as well as the new tasks to be carried out in the terrorist situation have been added to the defence task system. These amendments were necessary because the threat of terrorism in Europe, including our country, has increased significantly. In order to manage illegal migration, soldiers, in cooperation with the police, control and protect Hungary's borders. These are another task for the army. Ladies and gentlemen, The Fidesz faction supports the adoption of the resolution proposal, because the Hungarian soldiers guarantee the security of our country and the security of Hungarian citizens. I would also ask you to support the adoption of the resolution proposal, so that the regular number of defences can be changed as of 1 February next year. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-11-23-18	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congresswoman Márta Demeter, the lead speaker of the MSZP Group. Here you go, Congresswoman.
u2016-11-23-19	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Secretary. It is clear that it is in Hungary's interest that the Hungarian forces should not only be operational but also constantly developing, and that their abilities should be constantly evolving. This requires an increase in spending on Hungarian forces, which is already necessary to reach 2% of GDP by 2022. This requires an extra headcount, which means a real upload, and it is quite natural that technical modernisation, in which I think the government has very, very much to do. Because let's see what state the Hungarian Army is in right now! After 2010, the defence budget has fallen below 1 per cent of GDP, which has never occurred since the change of regime. The government withdrew more than HUF 200 billion from the Hungarian Defence Fund, and it is clear that this also led to the loss of capabilities. We need to see that if a skill is lost, its restoration in the future will not cost as much as the withdrawal of resources, but as a multiple of those who have performed this task, naturally or within the army, they will be more fortunate to be able to continue working in another position or to leave most of the army. Therefore, both the stock must be replaced and there are the costs of training and the purchase and modernisation of technical equipment. We therefore need to see that the measures between 2010-14 have clearly brought the Hungarian Defence Forces to the limit of their inability to function. The shortage of numbers has increased dramatically. This concerns the real number of defences, and here, according to the Chief of Staff's own declaration, the lack of military personnel reached 5,500, and some expert estimates establish a much higher shortage of personnel. It is clear that it is necessary to modernise the technical equipment, since not only has it lost its ability, for example, the fighting helicopter capability, but it is clear that both the rotating wing and the rigid wing transport capacity are now on the verge of failure. Therefore, it is absolutely necessary to obtain such technical equipment, but these can only be carried out in a procedure that ensures real competition and in the framework of a tender, with maximum transparency in mind. Here, in a few sentences, I mentioned the air force in particular, but we could also talk for a long time about my land force, where we are faced with an incredible depreciation of technical equipment. Therefore, much more attention should also be paid to this. Mr Secretary of State mentioned earlier in debates what the government cycle, which lasted until 2002-2010, looked like. It is clear that a number of improvements have also been made in our NATO membership, and it is clear that the transition from the mass army to the professional force has gradually taken place after the change of regime. I think that none of us are questioning the need for a professional force, not a mass army. A number of improvements have been made, such as the establishment of the papal base airport, the launch of the operation of the Heavy Air Transport Regiment and, by the way, it is precisely the current government that has been able to expand these tasks in Papa in the past days, obviously because this capacity has been created in cooperation with 12 nations, which I think is a very forward-looking thing. [[9.10]] In addition, a number of things could be classified from the development of Kecskemét airport through the barracks reconstruction programme, which was implemented before 2010. If we are talking about the development of the Hungarian army, we must clearly state that the army has the greatest strength and strength. The Hungarian Army must be valued not only in words but also in actions. Since 2008, there has been no increase in the salary of the military personnel. Last year, the government started to develop a salary for professional staff, which I believe was already the minimum that could be expected from the government, and we express our hope that this will continue smoothly in the future. However, let us not forget that there are currently around 6500 employees in the Hungarian Defence Agency. This 6500 has received a gross increase of HUF 16,000 in the last 6-7 years. Their salary is calculated from the civil servants' pay table. Action must be taken immediately on this matter. By the way, of course, I mean not only the military staff, but the wage growth of civil servants is already needed immediately. Part of the appreciation of the stock is that if they are hurt, something they cannot do, they will receive assistance and compensation. For example, I am thinking of the injured members of the Honvéd Health Insurance Fund, whose savings for the purpose of health preservation were taken by the scandalous bankruptcy of the Buda-Cash Broker House. It is natural that neither the military nor the police forces could have done anything about it. We've been fighting for a year and a half to make their compensation. A year and a half ago, I asked ten written and oral questions about when the government would finally act, and I think that this work was a result, because we have come to the point where they have noticed the problem and dealt with it. A year and a half ago, and even six months ago, a number of efforts could be seen that led to the conclusion that otherwise the government would not carry out any action on this matter if it was not on the agenda. After a year and a half, we finally got to the point where the government started legislating. I would like to say here that compensation could have happened without legislation, but I would say that this, that is already being done in legislation, is a good thing. Of course, we supported this measure. While this legal option was very well described in a half law on the part of the Ministry of Interior, the legal status law, the Ministry of Defence Act opened the possibility for soldiers, which is a two-thirds law. And here I would like to say that while this was one positive, forward-looking measure and a socially necessary measure in the Defence Act, the amendment of the Defence Act contained a number of other unacceptable and illegal provisions that would allow abuse. Therefore, these legislative changes were not supported by the MSZP faction, but the MSZP faction supported the section giving legal opportunity or framework to compensate the injured members of the Honvéd Health Insurance Fund. I am expressing my hope that the actual payment will be made as soon as possible. We have submitted a decision to pay the Hungarian Defence Office by 31 January. And if we were talking about the real situation, I think we can see what the problems are, and we need real solutions, not pretend measures. Mr Secretary of State, unfortunately, I must say that the increase in the number of Hungarian defences on paper is in no way a real solution. At present, there are 29 700 people, an approved number of people, which ensures full coverage of the basic tasks of the defence. There are at least five thousand people now, but some estimates suggest that up to eight thousand people may be shorthanded by what we are talking about. So, what we have here is not about filling up real numbers, it's about raising a framework. I have a feeling that the government is trying to reassure itself that it's going to increase the number of defenses on paper. Let us consider the reasons for this. For example, correction of stock ratios. I think that the stock ratios really need to be corrected, and we have said this many times. However, this proposal does not solve this. So I'd like to ask you here what changes will be made in the stock table, because if there isn't, then there's really nothing to talk about. What might justify, or at least, the government believes, this frame increase - which, once again, is not about real numbers, would increase the number of forces on paper, and will not make any more soldiers - is another argument that this is related to the formation of military organizations carrying out new territorial protection tasks. I suppose you're referring to the voluntary protection units you'd like to set up, which, I think, is also a problem. Therefore, the current professional staff, the current army staff, must be developed. The current modernisation needs must be met, not set up a system that clearly distracts resources from the now vital developments needed by the Hungarian Defence Office. At the moment, as I mentioned, there is even a problem with maintaining skills, let alone creating a new organization. It is clear that, in terms of skills, a voluntary reserve mammoth system cannot replace professional forces, professional personnel. If the government moves in this direction, it will clearly lead to further weakening of defence capabilities, thereby increasing security risks. A capacity development reserve of 300 people is mentioned in the explanatory memorandum. As I mentioned, there is a problem with maintaining abilities at all, not developing new tasks or new abilities. So I think that it is absolutely necessary to concentrate on the real uploading of the stock, not on what other systems the government would otherwise try to set up. He mentioned, Mr Secretary, that the platoon is not a phase, the century is not a century, if we withdraw from there to carry out new tasks. This is not why the platoon is not a platoon, and this is not why the century is not a century, but because their stock is not charged brutally. That's why. So I think we need to work on this, so that this upload happens in reality, actually. The previous increase in the number of staff was the result of the military element of the Honvéd Hospital, with the exception of an increase of 1040 persons, and it was already included in the justification of the bill that it was not planned at the same time to actually increase the number of staff at the same time. By the way, you have just said this explanation for this proposal, Mr Secretary of State, which, I think, is also inadequate and unacceptable. We have already submitted several proposals for a decision in the last year and the previous year to ensure that the government now does not deal with fraud, but actually increases the Hungarian Defence Office's staff, the real stock needs to be increased, not the framework, and now there is a shortage of staff, which could jeopardise the performance of the basic tasks, by the way, so that the Hungarian Defence Office also encounters a number of new tasks. [[9.20]] That is why, according to our proposal for a decision, the government must act immediately and support this proposal. If it is actually intended to increase the effectiveness of the defence, then you must support our proposal for a decision. The actual number of crew members shall exceed 7100 on 31 January 2018. From the 2017-2018 academic year, the government will increase the number of students educated in the training of officers by at least 10 percent and increase the number of students educated in the course of secondary education by at least 20 percent from the 2017-2018 academic year. If the intention is real, Mr State Secretary, this proposal for a resolution is supported. We cannot support an increase in the number of people on paper, that there should be continuous withdrawal of funds and that all kinds of mammoth systems should be set up in such a way that the functioning of professional forces is in danger. Thank you.
u2016-11-23-20	Thank you, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr Firtl Mátyás, the lead speaker of the KDNP Group.
u2016-11-23-21	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, In 2013, the National Assembly decided on the detailed breakdown of the Hungarian Defence Forces. The risks associated with migration in our region, which has increased significantly since then, and the security challenges associated with other unpredictable global processes, have multiplied, so that the role and tasks of the Hungarian Defence Forces have been changed, and the new tasks to be carried out in the terrorist threat situation have been added in accordance with the Fundamental Law. Appropriate responses to new security challenges, as well as tasks related to the national security strategy and the national military strategy, will require and justify an increase in the number of authorised personnel and a correction of the ratios between groups of stocks. Therefore, the amendment to the decision on the agenda proposes to increase the number of authorised military status from 29 700 to 31 080, and to allow for the correction already mentioned which represents the internal personnel ratio of the defence by leaving the number of officers unchanged and increasing the number of officers and crew. The new 1080 status is needed because of the formation of military organizations in the defence of new territorial defence tasks, and the tasks related to the migration challenge, the change in security situation and the development of individual military capabilities. In addition, a further capacity development reserve of about 300 people was needed, which is an increase in crew military status, but is organised at the actual appearance of the task, in line with the capabilities development goals set by the NATO environment. Dear House, With regard to the need for an increase in the number of soldiers and the need to change the proportions within each group, it is important to highlight the effectiveness of the development of the forces in almost all of them, thanks to which we are now beyond the period of the Hungarian Defence Corps's ability to maintain capabilities, and we have reached the age of the Hungarian Defence Corps's ability development. Among the important advances in real capacity growth, the new defence and military development programme is ready, as well as a number of recent professional events are proof that Hungary provides adequate protection in accordance with the requirements of the rule of law and that we are reliable allies to NATO in relation to the law we have just discussed. It is important that, as part of the triple protection applied by the government for the security of the country, we have decided on a number of legislation to ensure the recognition of the military and the effectiveness of the task of defence with a view to the effective implementation of tasks, and that we take account of the professional needs of the defence in the development process. In the case of defence, the government would like to value its soldiers by means of a legislative amendment that strengthens the recognition and appreciation of those who carry out the task of defence, the predictable military career model, providing them with a predictable future. In addition, we offer more and more young people the possibility of a voluntary reserve military service so that they can become professionally committed to the matter of defence. It is well known that more recruitment programmes have been carried out in connection with the retention and increase of the number of staff. The Defense Sports Association is also under construction. Yesterday we voted on the law, so through sport we address young people who are committed to protecting their country. We are convinced that the issue of defence is a national matter, and therefore our conviction and goal is that the list of amendments to the law listed strengthens our security, serving the protection of our country, Hungarian citizens and Hungarian families, which is the patriotic duty and responsibility of all of us. In this context, too, we must judge the process that has led to the change in the security environment, the crisis caused by mass migration, the terrorist threat, to a constantly changing system of tasks for the defence, to which the defence has so far met. And, like every time, I would like to thank the Hungarian Defence Agency for its continued standing, that all members of the Hungarian defence are of high quality in all circumstances and for the safety of the Hungarian people. Dear House, According to what has been said, on behalf of the KDNP fraction, the number of Hungarian Defence Forces with detailed breakdown is 35/2013. H/12926 on the amendment of the parliamentary decision I propose to the Parliament a proposal for a parliamentary decision and ask my fellow Members to support the bill in this spirit. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2016-11-23-22	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr Gergely Kulcsár, the lead speaker of the Jobbik Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2016-11-23-23	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, The increase in military numbers should be supported in the current state of the Hungarian Defence Forces, even if this does not mean a major change and does not really increase the military's military value. However, with this proposal for a decision, we are not really going further, as these framework figures are not being filled at the moment, and there is a need for serious progress in this area as well. The table in the proposal for a decision does not show the size of the personnel provided for the basic task of the Hungarian Defence Forces within the stock categories, the armed protection of the country. That would be a lot more if the numbers were given in combat, combat insurance and service groups. Of course, this would immediately reveal the distorted distribution of the Hungarian Defence Forces, how many people face a specific armed struggle, how big the waterhead is and how many people are in the background. On the previous agenda, the Secretary of State did not really respond to previous opposition remarks criticizing the state of the army, and these opposition criticisms are generally considered malicious. Csaba Hende, former Minister, has repeatedly said during various debates that the ability and the value of the defence is being misdirected by opposition politicians. However, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that I would like to ask the representative of the Government, in this case the Secretary of State, his opinion on the Prime Minister's criticism. Recently, Viktor Orbán gave an interview to Catholic Radio, and in this interview he spoke very negatively about the state of our army. This is what the Prime Minister said, and I would quote: our neighbours are carrying on serious arms, re-arming, I might say. Hungary is at the end of the line. It's not good to be at the end of the line. A serious country has its own army, which is not a mandatory task, but a serious, effective force. This has been said recently by the Prime Minister of Hungary. On this basis, we can say that Hungary's Prime Minister believes that our country is the last in the region in terms of force and that we do not have a serious army. Jobbik has repeatedly raised its voice against the downsizing of the Hungarian Defence Forces, which has been a cross-border process from 1990 to today, both the MSZP and the Fidesz governments have caused significant damage in this area. The Prime Minister's statement, please respond, Secretary of State. Do you agree with Viktor Orbán's speech quoted by me? [[9.30]] We really don't have a serious force and we're at the end of the line? If the situation is really so terrible, as Viktor Orbán said, why hasn't there been any meaningful progress in the development of forces for six years? We are also curious about what they intend to do in the coming days in order to have a serious army for our country. Thank you so much for listening. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2016-11-23-24	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. Independent Members do not take part in the debate; no one has applied for a two-minute speech. No one has spoken in advance in writing. I'm asking if anyone else wants to speak. [[No one's reporting.]] I don't see any contact. I give the floor to Mr Tamás Vargha, State Secretary, who wishes to respond to what has been said in the debate. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2016-11-23-25	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Again, I would like to thank you for your supporting contributions. Even in the previous speech by the Member, I wanted to ask you why 2022, why not 21 or 23. It seems to me that he looked at the calendar, poked at a year's worth and came out of 2022. [[Márta Demeter: Why, Mr. Secretary? Gábor István Bellozó: How much? Thirty! Márta Demeter: See you tomorrow!]] We think differently, look at and look at the opportunities offered, the development of the economy, the expansion of GDP and the growth of GDP. We're not setting a year's worth that just came out of the air, but we're seriously considering what kind of commitment we can make. [[István Gábor Bellozó applauds.]] As I said in the previous speech, if there is a possibility of a bigger increase, we will do so. [[Zoltán Grimlock: It's three cycles!]] Just like we did. But there is a discreet charm that the criticism comes from these benches, after the Hungarian Army has been dismantled according to Ferenc Juhász's doctrine. In 2010, there was no choice but to inherit what was beaten and destroyed. [[Márta Demeter interrupts.]] In that economic situation in 2010, there was no possibility but to make the commitment to keep the budget at a level. There is also a discreet charm to be mentioned by the congresswoman. We fully agree that soldiers should be valued [[Zoltán Grimlock: Like your pensioners and invalids!]] but the first Orbán government [[The president's ringing the bell.]] And according to the decision of the second Orbán government, there has been a salary improvement in the Hungarian Defence Office in the last 20 years. [[Intercoms from the benches of the MSZP.]] It wasn't between 2002 and 2010. So I think that criticism from that direction is not justified. From January 1st, it continues [[Zoltán Grimlock: Let's talk about the disabled.]] the development of salaries. Congressman, the war cripples, if you remember... [[Gábor István Bellozó: Who took the money?]] No one took it, Congressman. Look at what it's like. [[Big noise, the president's ringing. Zoltán Grimlock: You're taxing the pensioners!]] There are laws in front of this House! You have the opportunity to vote in favour of a bill that will also increase the contributions of war-careers, war- orphans, war-wreckers in the area of care, and has done so in recent years. The budgetary resources available for this have already increased by magnitude. The Congresswoman also mentioned the Honvéd Health Fund. Yes, we've noticed, you've noticed, you've spoken, you've asked us a question. We've taken the necessary steps. We have done this not only as a misrepresentation, but with reasonable, reasonable legal basis. By the way, the stock ratios with this [[Gábor István Bellozó: After a year and a half, they are determined!]] They're gonna get better.
u2016-11-23-26	Excuse me, Mr. Secretary. Congressman, you had every opportunity to speak in this debate. [[Gábor István Bellozó: He doesn't answer! This is not a debate, Mr. President.]] For now, we have an answer. [[Tamás Vargha: Why didn't you speak up, Congressman?]] Please, Congressman. [[Tamás Vargha: He just yells at me! Zoltán Haughty: Because he doesn't answer anything!]] Congressman Haughty, you've had every opportunity. There's an answer! Please! [[Zoltán Haughty: But he doesn't answer!]] Please, Congressman. I'm warning you. [[István Gábor Bellozó intervenes.]] I'm warning you, Congressman.
u2016-11-23-27	He didn't say anything! So the stock ratios are really improving. [[Gábor István bellozó: Replay with house rules!]] If we don't increase the number of officers, but only the petty officers and their crews, the stock ratios will change. The Member also spoke about setting up a voluntary reserve fund for territorial protection. This change does not apply to this, as officer numbers, as we know, are not increased in this framework. But when we talk about a voluntary reserve system, a voluntary operation or voluntary territorial protection or a voluntary reserve, it's another course, another option. Anyone who may wish to serve as a volunteer reserve wants to be a volunteer reserveer and not a contract soldier or a professional soldier. I feel that she is also in conflict with herself when she says that stock ratios need to be further improved. We agree completely on this, but we do not need to expand the training of officers at the same time, because if we want to improve the stock ratios, we do not need to increase the number of officers, but the number of officers and crews, we agree on this. I would like to say again about the platoon or century that the platoon is not a phase because it is not charged. We agree on that, too. But if we take away the non-uploaded assignments, we also take away the possibility that the section will become a specialty because there is nothing to upload. If we take ten people out of a squad where there are three squadrons, it's not three squadrons, it's just two, and we'll never be able to upload it because we took it and put it somewhere else, which means none of it will work. I would like to reply to the suggestion of Mr Key Price, that when we create abilities, such as the special regiment, we are really increasing the fighting value and not reducing it. What the Prime Minister said is precisely that we need to develop forces. I hope that when we take these steps, all the factions of the Parliament, all the Members sitting here, will support our efforts. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2016-11-23-28	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, The amendments may be submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. Dear Parliament, The 2004 II on motion picture follows a series of steps. General discussion of the bill amending the law until closure. Government referral T/12925. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, I give the floor to State Secretary Csaba Dömötör, State Secretary of the Cabinet Office of the Prime Minister, author of the item on the agenda. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2016-11-23-29	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, The government's aim is to strengthen the strategic sectors and it is absolutely right to say that film production is also one of the strategic sectors. The Hungarian film has serious traditions, it carries our identity, so it has meaning beyond itself. We want the Hungarian film industry and Hungarian film production to be strengthened, Hungarian films to become better, more and more good Hungarian films, and not least to create new jobs in the film industry. We have good hope of achieving these goals. Allow me to briefly describe the history, the results so far, and, finally, how the proposal under discussion relates to them. So first, a few words about the history. When this government took office in 2010, it found itself in a messy situation in film production. If we were to describe in one word what this government experienced, then perhaps the word beehive would be the most appropriate. The aid scheme before 2010 did not fulfil its expectations because it was unpredictable and opaque. The Hungarian Motion Picture Public Foundation, which distributes direct subsidies, has developed a deeper spiral of debt. The main reason for this was that, following the adoption of the film law, there was no stable financial source for the film industry in the budget. Thus, the distribution of money depended on day-to-day political deals. [[Agnes Kunhalmi: What is it now?]] This was a very serious consequence. The film producers were indebted, they borrowed almost 6 billion forints from seven banks on the basis of contracts with the public foundation, which were not actually granted. The film support system was extremely weak. There was also a shocking example of the fact that the Ministry of Culture had several years of advance grant contracts without having budgetary coverage. This is also a good description of the conditions at that time. [[9.40]] The government's aim in 2010 could therefore have been to make order in the weak-legged institutional system. The National Film Fund started operating in June 2011 and is assisting Andy Vajna as government commissioner. The first main task of the National Film Fund was to develop a new film support system. The government wants to create frameworks that are effective, clear and transparent. In the case of grants, we must continue to distinguish between direct and indirect tax incentives. Support decisions are taken by a panel, the Film Committee, and it is important that the institution only supports the production of productions for which the financing background is actually ensured. Dear House, It has only been a few years, but it is clear that the transformation of the film industry has brought the desired results. There is much to be done, but it is clear that we already have something to be proud of. I would like to approach the results in two ways. One approach is the rise in film production activities and the other is the increasing number of international recognitions. First, a few facts on the main indicators of the Hungarian film industry should be here in a few words. In 2016, after London, Budapest is the largest, the most important European production site. The Film Fund supported or supported the production of 75 whole night movies by the end of 2016. By now, 40 of these were seen at cinemas or international film festivals. With the support of the Film Fund, nearly 200 scenarios and movie plans were developed, as well as a number of domestic film events. Since the establishment of the Hungarian National Film Fund, the capacity of the industry, including the number of employees and the GDP contribution, has roughly tripled. This also means that the biggest of the EU countries in Hungary is the contribution of the film industry to GDP. It is no secret, of course, that foreign productions in Hungary also contribute greatly to improving industrial indicators. Therefore, the Members sitting here can rightly ask why this is beneficial for Hungary. First of all, because the film, in addition to creating an identity-forming power, creates value, also spins the economy. The increase in the film industry means a great deal of extra revenue and new jobs for Hungary. As is known, the rate of the tax refund increased from 20 percent to 25 percent in 2014, which is extremely positive in Europe as well. Analyses carried out in recent years show that a tax refund of HUF 1248 will result in tax revenue, a tax refund of HUF 1 000 will increase GDP by HUF 3240, so the multiplier effect will be more than threefold, and a tax refund of HUF 1 billion will help create 555 jobs. This is because even foreign companies spend tens of billions of HUF in Hungary. These are therefore the economic effects. However, since it is a strategic aspect of culture, we cannot look at this area simply along the lines of financial indicators. We also need to see if more quality works are being made. Anyone who has followed the developments of the past years, the works that were born at that time, can see that there are more and more good Hungarian films, more and more outstanding works. This is also indicated by the fact that in recent years Hungarian films made in the new support system have received more than 130 awards in the world, which I think we can all be proud of. They got credit for the Karlovy Vary film festival, the Cannes Film Festival, the Golden Globe Award, and I could tell you more. The National Film Fund, the new support programme, launched Hungarian film production in the right direction. One of the outstanding evidence of this is that after 34 years Hungarian art has been awarded the Oscar Award for the best foreign film. In this case, there was no co-production state partner, the Hungarian state was the sole state supporter. The primary merit is, of course, to the creators, but it is worth it quietly to be glad that the Hungarian state was able to create a creative atmosphere and provide the right conditions for this film to be born. Of course, the Film Fund has supported and supported a number of other outstanding works, including those that are key to the processing of the Hungarian past. The screenplay developers of the Film Fund, together with the supported creators, are currently developing several historical films. On the basis of the results, I would like to say that the Film Fund introduced a new form of support this year, with the aim of allowing Hungarian staff members, Hungarian staff members, to participate in appropriate and high-quality training. A specific resource is already available for this purpose, based on the training contribution paid by film producers. In order for domestic film production to grow further, professional professionals are needed, who can learn the tricks of the profession from the best. In 2016, Honourable House, Hungarian film production is expected to have a record year. We hope that international productions with Hungarian and Hungarian participation will be produced for approximately HUF 85 billion in Hungary. In order to seize the opportunities offered by the film industry, it is worth reviewing the experience so far, taking them into account and adopting amendments that make the film industry and support system even more efficient. This is the main objective of the proposal we are discussing. The main reasons for submitting today's proposal are as follows. We would like to further strengthen the number of skilled workers in the film industry, with guided training programmes. This is why the Film Fund launched its own training programme, which could be further expanded from 2017 with the adoption of this proposal. We also consider it essential to establish a single, credible register with the introduction of film registration. The new cinema statistics system would greatly help to monitor and compare ratings on a regular basis. We also want to ensure that only value-creating works receive support, which is why the amendment introduces the concept of scripted reality, distinguishing it from other works. Finally, some of the amendments concern deposit accounts. With these invoices, the purpose of the Film Fund was to make the indirect aid scheme simpler and more transparent. The deposit account operates as a collection account and the payments are made on the basis of a decision of the NMHH. The deposit account may amount to HUF 25 billion in 2017. I stress that this is a budget, and it's not the Film Fund that gets the money, it's the filmmakers. The Film Fund plays an intermediary role, and this amount is an order of magnitude that allows us to keep up with the growing number of international productions in Hungary. What we want is for more film investments to arrive in our country. We want to preserve our competitiveness in recent years. Dear House, We cannot underestimate, I think, the traditions of Hungarian cinema and film production. This year, 120 years since the opening of the first Hungarian film theatre, and the first Hungarian film recordings were taken during the Millennium celebrations. However, in accordance with Article 20 (2) (a) of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011, the following definitions shall apply: The hard events of the 20th century did not leave filmmaking intact, and in difficult times there was a great deal of permanent creation. By the way, Hungarian creators have also made their mark in Hollywood, the capital of filmmaking, and this also means that this tradition obliges us, so we cannot lower the fact that Budapest should be one of the citadels of European film production, if you will, that this is a national matter across parties. To this end, we ask for your support. Thank you for listening. [[Applause from the Fidesz ranks.]]
u2016-11-23-30	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, The speeches will now be held by the keynote speaker. I give the floor to Congresswoman Mónika Dunai, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group. Here you go, Congresswoman.
u2016-11-23-31	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Dear House, In 2004, when Hungary became a member of the European Union, it became necessary and possible to fully renew the Hungarian film support system and the legislation. The 2004 II on moving images The fact that, on the one hand, the film sector, in view of its significant capital needs, has continuously used large amounts of public resources, which required a transparent, legally regulated system of institutions, was behind the creation of a law, i.e. the film law. On the other hand, by means of its production capacities, it has the potential and potential for development, with which it represents a noticeable weight in the national economy. [[9.50]] The new film support scheme introduced by the film law, which entered into force on 1 April 2004, consisting of direct support for Hungarian and co-production films with a length of at least 70 minutes, which could be presented in cinema, as well as indirect support for foreign wage work, i.e. tax incentives, gradually expressed its beneficial effects on the economy, Hungarian film culture, the development of Hungarian film culture and the creation of jobs, which is also important and important. These are economic and cultural aspects. Let us not ignore the fact that good Hungarian films have news value and tourist attractions all over the world. There is no need to explain to my fellow Members that if a film - whether it be an international co-production piece or a Hungarian creation - presents the beautiful landscapes or cultural values of our country as a venue, our country, our nation, may be attractive to foreign tourists. There is so-called film tourism in Europe, but also throughout the world. This is known on the basis of research and can be monitored during festivals and performances. The goal is that Hungary is increasingly taking its place in the circulation of film tourism. Ladies and gentlemen, With the aim of the law, the Fidesz Group agrees, i.e. we would like to further encourage the production of good Hungarian films and good Hungarian-coproduction films, and we would like to help and support the production of film values. The present Act contains a substantive amendment at ten points compared to the 2004 Law. The first group includes amendments to the interpretation provisions. On the one hand, it clarifies the definition of film distribution and cinema in accordance with the requirements of today's times and the world's terminology. On the other hand - and we consider this to be very important - I would also like to highlight it, and Mr Secretary of State mentioned it - it introduces the concept of so-called scripted reality into the law and clearly states that support for films of document nature but presented according to a pre-written scenario is not possible, i.e. funding for such films cannot be claimed and provided. The second major subject of the substantive changes is the need to amend the regulation of the film professional training contribution in force from 17 July 2016 in order to make the film professional training contribution eligible as direct film production costs. It is therefore appropriate to lay down the contribution already in the decision establishing eligibility for the aid. In the event of non-payment of the professional training contribution, the motion picture is proposed to be subject to a lower penalty than the removal from the Office's register, so the reference will be deleted in accordance with the amendment that is now submitted, and instead it will be possible to refuse entitlement to the aid, i.e. it cannot receive aid. The third major topic: the new chapter entitled "Authorisation for the distribution of films in Hungary" includes the register of film distributors and cinema operators. The motion picture industry has been lacking credible statistical data for years, and the lack of accurate, up-to-date data is constantly making it difficult for film distributors and cinema operators to operate. Registration of distributors is, on the one hand, a prerequisite for registering the production of films. On the other hand, it is important to point out that while the registration of films only applies to films presented in cinema, this amendment will make it known to the Film Office about all distributors. This is a clear step forward. The introduction of film registration is necessary in order to ensure a common register of film works, which is the basis for the assessment of regular viewing data. The Film Office's official records on film works cover the full range of data collections required in official procedures, but none of them are fully capable of providing the content required by the cinema statistics system. The fourth major amendment: the representative of the Hungarian National Film Fund can take part in the meetings of the Kortár Committee as an expert in the future in view of the aspects of film support, which is why, according to the proposal, this is added to the law. The fifth major area: the procedure for establishing art, i.e. the artistic qualification of film works, has been amended from 1 January 2012 by the procedure of the Minister for Culture as administrative authority. However, it is worth simplifying, shortening, and relocating the task to the NMHH Film Office in order to simplify it. The sixth topic is that, on the basis of the existing text of the Szya Act, only non-resident performers currently have the possibility to pay their taxes in a simplified manner, if the legal conditions are met. The members of staff who are temporarily present in Hungary in connection with the production of films are not covered by the current legislation, but they should also be eligible for tax under the law. For the choice of simplified taxation, only non-resident individuals who have been notified to the Film Office by the film-producing or film-producing undertaking when determining payment entitlements are eligible. Another important amendment to the 2004 film law concerns foreign performers and crew members active in Hungary. The income generated after 1 January 2016 is subject to a tax liability of around 15% in Hungary. This is significantly below 25% of the indirect aid. In the vast majority of cases, such incomes come out of the blood flow of the Hungarian economy. This is not our goal, so it is unjustified that the rate of the benefit is significantly higher than the level of personal income tax. For this reason, the present proposal envisages a 50% reduction in indirect aid for such costs. The eighth topic: From 1 October 2016, requests for public use for film shooting will be assessed by the NMF department. For the proper exercise of the powers of authority, it is necessary to exclude an appeal in the case of refusal decisions. The ninth area: the film law 31. Paragraph 7 (d) governs the amount paid to the deposit account in the reference year without any additional support under the Tao Law. Mr. Secretary of State has already spoken about this. According to current estimates, this amount will be HUF 33 billion in 2017. To this end, it is necessary to add another point (e). Among the transitional provisions, the bill now submitted would allow the Film Fund to collect more than HUF 14 billion in 2016 in response to current industry needs. Finally, the rules of the film internship system will also be amended according to the current legislative initiative. In view of the fact that a number of the marketing and shooting concerned lasts less than five weeks, it is often possible only for three to four weeks, so that the employment of trainees has not been resolved during this entire period. [[10.00]] Ladies and gentlemen, We see that the aims presented to us in the amendment of the law are designed to enable Hungarian filmmaking, Hungarian films and co-production films to have a beneficial effect, to see and enjoy as many good Hungarian films as possible. That is why we propose that the Parliament adopt the bill. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-11-23-32	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Ms Agnes Kunhalmi, the lead speaker of the MSZP Group. Here you go, Congresswoman.
u2016-11-23-33	Mr President, Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, The proposal before us is noted by Antal Rogán, Minister of Propaganda. At the same time, the general entrepreneur of our nation, Andy Vajna, is more likely to be suspected behind the document. Right now, it's not TV2, it's not a casino, it's a film hat. We remember once the movie law was amended. Looks like they've seen where they haven't been able to get everything down fast enough, so now we're gonna have a little clarification, a bit of whittling. We see that this proposal does not serve the future, transparency and competition of Hungarian film production. Instead of domestic filmmakers, the all-inclusive Vajna ball can enjoy the simplified cash pump. I would like to highlight two concepts: impenetrable money pumping and red tape. Let's start with bureaucracy. The proposal further increases unnecessary data collection. From now on, you'd force every movie to announce to the state how many shows they're gonna play. Unless you have something so strange planned that the Hungarian state alone beats websites of all cinemas and movies, like public est.hu, then this idea doesn't really make any sense. Because all the information is still available online, and I don't think the state has much to do with it. Furthermore, the proposal to register DVDs is difficult to interpret in the 2010s. On the one hand, they want to register films in another new database that have already received the marketing licence, on the other hand, and this is much more decisive, at the age of Netflix, Hulu and YouTube, they want to introduce a state database of plastic discs. It would have sounded weird in 2001 too, but so, 15 years later, we find it even more ridiculous. [[Sándor Lezsák, vice-president of the Parliament takes the chair.]] There is another area that will also bring bureaucratic problems. In the future, the Hungarian National Film Fund will assess the public usage licences submitted in connection with film shootings as a professional authority. The submission and decision of the application itself does not change, but the powers are clarified. If we understand correctly, this could mean stewardship with state-owned real estate. I'll translate what's happening here. If Andy Vajna calls to any state institution, it's mandatory to give a shooting license. Of course, the opposite can easily come from this: if Andy Vajna calls, he may even make the same problem difficult. This, let's say, in the country where Árpád Habony can bring home his pictures and pictures of Fine Arts, is not so surprising from you, but I'm telling you, in the world of normal people, there are no such graces and privileges. Unfortunately, based on recent years, we have reason to doubt that professional aspects will dominate this work. And then it's about the impenetrable money pump. The bill raises Tao support for films to HUF 25 million. This is also the profit tax transfer introduced in sports associations, and, of course, these amounts would also be subject to well-established encryption at sports associations. Well, in the sports community, we see what happened. The companies that wanted to impress, or which hoped to convince the Prime Minister through the lake that it would be good for him to win something expensive, well, they sent their money to the top. I don't suppose the direction of the request was reversed. Now, unleashing all this on the film industry is going to work about the same way. I'm sure there'll be some big state movie projects that everyone will try to pay off secretly to see if they can hit the government. It's the legalization of buddy capitalism. Unacceptable. But Andy Vajna is a statue of buddy capitalism, so we're not surprised. If a business starts with you, it usually continues in the Fidesz universe. And what is quite amazing about the proposal is that, in the event of the adoption of the bill, the Hungarian Academy of Arts will be able to delegate someone, while the Academy of Arts of István Széchenyi MTA will not. Of course, we are aware that this is another moment of their course-building madness, but let me ask you again: György Fekete? Really, even in 2016, is this darkness that reigns in the MMA good for the Hungarian screens? Look! I don't mean to be disrespectful because of the age difference, but we're talking about the György Fekete, whose fund-absorption called the academy we know is that every general assembly has a scandal, they love wall-wovens, and they spend money with both hands on buildings and school buddies. This team has already gone under your control, and it's just ridiculous every move they make. Please, Imre Kerényi is at an embarrassing level, and he is a very strong competitor with his plagiarized book series and the table of the Constitution! I know, I can see that Orbán's friends have to be written everywhere, just in case, but I really think George Black's MMA is exaggerating. This is humiliating even for the authors. I could say that the MMA is so unpleasant and offensive to Hungarian artists and Hungarian art that it can be seen even from the helicopter. Last, I would like to highlight the change in the professional training contribution to the motion picture. It is already in question whether such a contribution can fulfil its function. Is this okay, while billions were taken from the university sphere, and art education is suffering very harshly now? I think this money would be a much better place there. Now, according to the proposal, this item of HUF 15 million per film could be set by the Film Office at the beginning of the grant and should be paid in one amount. This, of course, may be a small matter compared to the whole of a film, but it is a good sign of your thinking that immediately at the beginning of production, the manufacturers would be shot in the leg, and the amount would remain even if the final value of the film did not reach the initial budget. Thus, the payment obligation would be lower in principle. This is not right, because this will create tensions afterwards, and the view is terrible, which it conveys. The state isn't a partner, it's not a sponsor, it's taking what he thinks is his, and then the flood. Well, something like that is the proposal that lies before us, which is your attitude towards the entire film industry. There is this Mr. Andy Vajna, who, pointing to some Hungarian film-making which is otherwise to be acknowledged, is embracing the entire Hungarian film-making process, inaccessiblely sucking money from Hungarian film-making, while introducing administrative ideas citing the 90's and bringing in György Fekete. It's pathetic. In this way, in this form, this package does not make any sense except to better serve the interests of the Fidesz. However, it makes some processes even less transparent and even more unpleasant another slice of the Hungarian state. Therefore, our Fraction does not support the proposal, and, if possible, please withdraw it. Thank you, Mr. President. [[Dr. Laszlo Varga applauds.]]
u2016-11-23-34	Thank you very much, Congresswoman Agnes Kunhalmi. I give the floor to Mrs Dóra Dúró, the lead speaker of the Jobbik Group.
u2016-11-23-35	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, The bill itself concerns only a small detail of the production of films and the operation of the Hungarian National Film Fund, a loophole, but Mr. Secretary of State has opened a big door in his expo which I cannot do without walking in quite simply. He started talking about the support system, the fees, and there was one thing he didn't say, but it would be just as important to make films, and that's the ratings of the movies. [[10.10]] These are the three areas on which I would like to go first, even because I see the situation quite differently than the Secretary of State. You have made statements that the operation of the Film Fund has produced the desired results and is a strategic sector of culture. I agree with the latter, of course, that film production is indeed a strategic issue, and what films the state supports, what the Hungarian film consumers and viewers will see. If we look at the aid practice in the first round, which the Secretary of State also spoke about, then we see very instructive results. I do not feel that, with the support of film production, I have managed to put in place a broad professional layer, as the Secretary of State has said. If you look at the allocated amounts, say, in terms of producers, then there are some people whose names appear spectacularly many times in terms of the amount of subsidies they receive. Tamás Hutlassa won the most of these grants during the five-year operation of the Film Fund; he received more than HUF 4 billion from the Film Fund during that time. The operation of the Film Fund may have produced the desired results for him too. And by the way, it wouldn't be a problem if he wasn't the partner of Ágnes Havas, CEO of the Film Fund. So they set up a system in which HUF 4 billion is paid to the former CEO of the Film Fund. But to continue with the line, Gábor Kálomista is certainly satisfied with one and a half billion of his support, and more than a billion money has been given to Pál Sándor, István Bojár, Viktorio Petrányi and Gábor Ferenczy, which would still not be a problem in itself. It would still not be a problem on its own, but we see that the Film Fund works in such a way that half of the total funding is given to six people. There are six producers who will receive half of the entire funding for five years. It is quite clear that this is not a professional decision, Mr Secretary of State. But to add a little color to the question of production and cost accounting for films, I would like to share my own battle with you. It's about shooting a movie called Pappa Booze. Tímea Vajna, on her Facebook page, advertises that they are looking for extras for the casting of Pappa Pia. After that, the press also investigated it, and it became clear that one of Tímea Vajna's companies, one of Tímea's interests, is doing the casting of this film - which is supported by the Hungarian National Film Fund with a record amount. I wondered how much support Andy Vajna gave to his own wife's company, so I lived with a request for data in the public interest to the Hungarian National Film Fund, so that they would be kind enough to give me this contract. Of course, they didn't, so I probably didn't reveal such a huge secret, it didn't happen to get to know the details of this contract. Otherwise, they referred to a place of law that no longer exists. But then I didn't give up, I tried to make them feel that they couldn't blow me off because I turned to NAIH to issue a resolution on whether this data should be made public. There was another channel in addition to which I started based on a previous good practice. In connection with the film 'Vadettes', which also led to a huge ratings failure, I submitted a written question to the Prime Minister and received a really meaningful, detailed reply from the Prime Minister's Office, which also included the accounting, in very detailed detail. I've also received the entire production plan, accounting, incredibly correct. With this encouragement, I asked the Prime Minister once again that once these data were released in connection with a film, it could obviously be requested in connection with any movie, because if it was already published in response to a written question, then in relation to another film - where I only changed the title of the film on the written question - I thought very naively that I would be able to receive this detailed account of this film as well. The Prime Minister has now divided this written question not with the Prime Minister's Office, but with the Ministry of Human Resources, from which I have received a reply that they are not otherwise competent in this matter. So what is the reason that there is a film whose accounts are published, and there is a film whose accounts are not published when, on the one hand, I also made a request for data in the public interest, and, on the other hand, earlier, I say, on the written question, where I have only changed the title of the film, I asked the same question? Perhaps the Prime Minister's statement that Andy Vajna is one of the bravest Hungarians does not stand up. If he were such a brave Hungarian, then I think that the script and the settlement in which his wife's company conducts the casting would also be published to the public. If we look at the ratings in comparison with the aid amounts and in parallel with them, then we can certainly not talk about a success story, as the Secretary of State said. On the one hand, this year, the Horseman, which was not supported by the Hungarian National Film Fund - to be stylish - opened the ratings of all the other films supported by the Film Fund, which means that this year's viewing competition was won by the Horseman. This was not supported by the Film Fund. And, yes, halfway through the year, the viewing of the Horseman alone exceeded the ratings of all the other movies supported by the Film Fund, adding up. But there are quite a few huge failures, for which I think that taking on professional or political responsibility, or taking on political and professional responsibility, is also a matter of taking on. For example, the Film Fund supported the film Vesztetts, already mentioned, with HUF 790 million, and the viewer's number is around 15,000; my night was your day with HUF 289 million, which attracted 4 thousand viewers; with HUF 209 million, the movie Parkoló, this is 2.5 thousand viewers; the movie Mirage was watched by 2 thousand people, and this was supported by the Hungarian National Film Fund with HUF 350 million. On what topics films supported by the Film Fund are produced, I think it also provides us with a very instructive overview. When Fidesz won the election by a two-thirds majority in 2010, I think that the national commitment of the film profession looked forward to the re-making of large Hungarian historical films. The Secretary of State said that the Film Fund has supported more than 70 films since its existence, but we cannot mention a historical film that would present the glorious periods of Hungarians. On the other hand, more than three films have been supported on the subject of homosexuality: In the last years of World War II, six of the Holocaust films were supported, and by the way, the Film Fund supported the production of a movie with state money for refugees; but, for example, a member of the screen review committee for the film on the life of Munkácsy said that Munkácsy was of no interest in Hungary and therefore did not support the application for this. But the film about the life of King Matthias has also been applied for, the black army, the Kuruc age, and none of these have been supported by the Hungarian National Film Fund, while the subsidies are being allocated in the way I mentioned, so six of the producers who receive half of the subsidies. There are certainly some forward-looking steps in the bill, and there are some things that deserve recognition. We can support these parts, such as the parts concerning statistics, or clarification provisions, which are largely technical in nature. I would also like to make some specific comments on the proposal for a regulation concerning the codified text. On the one hand, the works and composition of the Art Committee will be transformed. In itself, there may also be arguments that this is necessary, although the justification that the Film Office has not been able to meet the deadlines is a bit strange, and therefore it is necessary to fully reshape the committee. If that is the reason, Mr Secretary, for not being able to meet the deadlines, then hire another colleague and you will be able to meet the deadline. [[10.20]] I understand that the art committee can be redesigned, but this is not the reason why they can't keep a deadline, and there are other ways to do that. The President of the Art Committee will be assisted by this proposal, which can otherwise be agreed with, a civil servant of the NMHH. Here they apply the condition that a civil servant of sufficient qualifications is involved. That's a bit of a gown, Mr. Secretary. The other members are required to have a degree in film or motion picture teaching, and here it is written that they have an adequate degree. What do you mean, you're qualified, Secretary of State? There's no such thing. Either include specific qualifications, or do not make restrictions on qualifications, since it is a civil servant of the NMHH, especially if he will be president. I would like to highlight one more minor change in operation and classification and to recommend it to your attention. This is that you can only apply for classification by submitting a Hungarian list of dialogues. This is often not available, Mr Secretary of State, because you have to submit an application 30 days before publication, and so far the English-language list has been sufficient. I think that tightening up is not justified here, as it can slow down the classification of these films, so if the system has not been tightened up, it will make the system a little more flexible. There shall be no appeal against the rejection of an application for public use. This is a very interesting legal solution. Of course, there may be decisions, such as in relation to registration, where there is no appeal, and it is an acceptable thing, because it is completely listed in the law, which documents must be submitted in order to register either a film distributor or a cinema operator, and it is clear that if someone does not submit this or does not comply with it after the deficiency, then there is no appeal. But in the case of a request for public use, the situation is not so clear, Mr. Secretary of State. I think it would be justified to create an appeal here. With regard to the training contribution, we have already talked about it, and I recognise here that there can also be arguments for your solution, but the fact that in this case the possibility of proportionality and subsequent correction also disappears does not serve to make it a fairer and more proportionate system for film producers. Of course, it is more predictable because there will be no correction even if the cost of production does not otherwise reach what was planned in advance, but I think that if this happens, this proportionality and the possibility of correction should be retained in this regard. I have so much to say about the codified text of the bill itself. On this basis, and on the basis of the operation of the National Film Fund so far, we cannot support the bill in this form. Thank you for your attention. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2016-11-23-36	Thank you, Mrs Dóra Dúró, President of the Commission, for your speech. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. I give the floor to Mrs Mónika Dunai, who indicates that she wishes to speak within a 15-minute time frame.
u2016-11-23-37	Thank you very much for the floor. I do not wish to take the 15 minutes, but, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we must respond to the speech of opposition at the end of the speakerial round. In particular, I would like to respond with emphasis to the keynote speech of the Socialist Group. If, in this case, two people or two factions read something else from the story from any written material, in this case two people or two factions read something else from a bill, then it can only logically mean one thing to me that one of us did not read the bill submitted. Ladies and gentlemen, I'd like to say I read the bill, leave the rest to your fantasies. During yesterday, I wrote a few sentences on what speech the Socialist Group's lead speaker would make. I wrote ten sentences, and Agnes Kunhalmi told me nine of them. In other words, it was possible to know in advance what the Socialist Party would build the keynote speech. They said the same thing as they have been saying for years for any presentation in the title, in the subject of the media or film in some way, or the concept of a motion picture. [[Dr. Gergely Bárándy: We're consensual. Is that a problem?]] In other words, we could see that these were the same thoughts, which were completely alien to the text of the law, which they say almost every day. They missed one, but I don't want to repeat it for them. In other words, the speech had nothing to do with what was written and what amendments and what purpose it intended to achieve. However, there was also a substantial speech by the socialist lead speaker, and I would like to argue with him in sharp contrast. Ágnes Kunhalmi raised the bureaucratic burden on filmmakers to produce statistics on everything, to be reported. I think that's exactly the purpose of the law. But that was also his original purpose, in 2004, even in the original film law adopted by the Socialist-Free Democratic Government, that if we give state money for a movie, it really must be transparent, and it must be, of course, but it must be. In other words, we can expect movies and filmmakers who receive state support to communicate all the transparency elements to us, the Parliament and, through us, of course, to the Hungarian people. So we disagree with him, and if such an amendment were to be tabled by the Socialist Group, I would already say that we would not support the less transparent support system for film production. Dóra Dúró mentioned The Riding Hood movie, which has really scored ratings and is a very remarkable film creation. It is true that it did not receive any support from this system, but three, as far as I know, three sources of funding, three sources of government funding, have benefited from the film. He was supported by the Ministry of National Development, supported by NKA, but supported by President Sándor Lezsák, the Hungarian Hungaricum Committee. So we can't say that the state hasn't given a damn about making such a valuable movie. And it is important to mention that it is not decided by politicians. So when you say you didn't give support here, there, there, politicians don't sit on the jury, fortunately, applications are not decided by politicians, and politicians don't vote, they are representatives of the profession. I think that when there are such points here, in the walls of this House as to what kind of persons, what kind of subsidies they are, they are happening outside the walls of this Parliament. We have to regulate the framework in the law, we have to limit it, and then those institutional systems do their job on their own, within the framework of the law, according to their best knowledge. So influence in this way is out of the question at the legal level. [[Determination and interruptions from the ranks of MSZP and Jobbik.]] Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. [[10.30]]
u2016-11-23-38	Thank you, Congresswoman Mónika Dunai. I give the floor to Congressman László Varga for two minutes, MSZP.
u2016-11-23-39	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, I would like to say good morning to Congresswoman Mónika Dunai. There are also such unpleasant side effects of the remains of parliamentary democracy in Hungary, that sometimes they say their opposite position here, and the faction of an opposition group, the Hungarian Socialist Party, is consistent. Indeed, our opinion on Andy Vajna is quite clear, for example, that online cash registers are not in his casinos, of course many Hungarian businesses do. We also have an opinion that you are scrambling big businessmen like him, making legislation according to their convenience, and we will say these things, because we find it outrageous that no one in this country, apart from the urbanist elite, is actually supported. We'll always put this on the table, even if it annoys you. However, I would like to reassure you that you have already succeeded in abolishing live broadcasts from the Parliament, so obviously much less people can see this because of your anti-democratic attitude, and of course, if we wish to issue a communication on this, then the Censors of the MTI can obviously cut them or not publish them. So the kind of total media machine that you run in this country, and you run it, so you can explain where politicians don't sit and stuff like that, obviously, that's what you want to do. And we will tell you this, and what you represent in this country will be over. It will be over, and then we will have to account for these - to say the least - billions allocated to certain entrepreneurs as they please, the laws created for them, and the system of institutionalized corruption. Thank you, Mr. President.
u2016-11-23-40	Thank you, Congressman. I would like to ask Mrs Mónika Dunai that she wishes to comment in a 15-minute time frame or 2 minutes. [[Mónika Dunai: I have applied for a normal speech, Mr President, but it will be very short.]] Then you have the floor, Congresswoman... [[For signal:]] I mean, I'm sorry, then you'll be preceded by Secretary Csaba Dömötör.
u2016-11-23-41	Allow me to respond to Jobbik's speech. You've come with a little color, if I quote correctly, and you've been pushing the theme of movies. We've talked about an Oscar-winning piece here several times. Well, we do remember how Jobbik, when it came to that, and the movie-based support, got involved. It's about the son of Saul. This was the party that criticized the fact that Saul's son was supported by the Film Fund. You said then, like your current argument, that you would put an end to the Holocaust industry in the film industry. So we can safely say that if it were up to the Jobbikon, Hungary would today have one less Oscar prize. Lucky for us, luckily for us, it's not the better politicians who decide on movie-based grants. [[Dr. István Apáti: He learns nothing!]] As far as directors are concerned, I don't think it's right for the MPs, but even the government, to participate in the witch hunt for directors. I don't know all the director's work, but I do know that the directors you mentioned put something on the table earlier. [[Dr. István Apáti: Vajna, for example.]] and it is not that they have received support since 2010; in the previous period, too, they have a number of famous works. As far as ratings are concerned, I agree that ratings are important. This is why it is important that the films supported by the Film Fund have won more than a hundred awards in international competitions, and we can assume that these awards will contribute to the increasing number of people seeing these films in Hungary as well. Allow me to point out that the son of Saul, as I said, was attacked by 267 thousand people, more than a quarter of a million people in Hungarian cinemas. [[Dóra Dúró: They were forced to be introduced!]] And one thing you didn't say, and that's that these international award-winning works are sold by the Film Fund experts in other countries. The son of Saul, which you have not supported, has been sold in over a hundred countries in recent months. [[Noise, interruptions in Jobbik's ranks. The president's ringing the bell.]] I don't mind at all that there are successful works that can hold up without the support of the Film Fund. I can say, go ahead, Horseman; thank you very much for drawing attention to it, and I will try to see it. Thank you for listening.
u2016-11-23-42	Thank you very much. I would ask my fellow Members to express their thoughts in two minutes, not half-soundingly, yelling. I give the floor to Mrs Dóra Dúró, President of the Commission, Jobbik, in two minutes.
u2016-11-23-43	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, I was trying to talk about systemic problems. Six people getting half the funding for five years, I don't think it's normal. It doesn't matter who those six people are. It doesn't matter. It's just a blur on the cake that the CEO's ex-partner is one of them, by the way. But this is not a means of reviving and putting Hungarian film production in position. This is contrary to that, tens of billions of forints are distributed to a narrow circle, and other talented filmmakers - I was talking about producers, not directors, by the way, Mr. Secretary - and others are practically crippled and are not given the opportunity to support the Film Fund. The son of Saul's Oscar Prize, I believe, is not the merit of the Film Fund, but of its luck, and of all the prizes with which you cover, this is just as good for the Film Fund as Fidesz for the migrant crisis, so that they can divert attention and cover it. But I'm talking about systemic problems, Mr. Secretary. Why didn't the Film Fund support a film about Toldi, neither István Bethlen, Mihály Munkácsy, nor István Tisza, nor King Matthias, nor the black army? It supported only one other than II. It takes place during World War II and the Holocaust, and the historical Hungarian film: the legend of King Solomon in Israeli-Hungarian co-production was the only one supported by the Secretary of State. This is a systemic, long-term problem. I'm not targeting a movie, I'm giving you examples. I'm not talking about a producer, I'm talking about how the system has been like this for five years, that my brother has a system, and all the films that have been processing other periods of history are simply swept off the table by the Film Fund. That's my problem. It's not the son of Saul, it's not a producer, it's the operation of the system, it's my problem, Mr. Secretary. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2016-11-23-44	Thank you very much. I give the floor to Congresswoman Mónika Dunai in a 15-minute time frame. Fidesz.
u2016-11-23-45	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, It is natural to respect the views of the other factions. I, too, always listen to the opposition's opinion, I am not usually nervous about it, but let the Socialist Group also allow them to express their views, their political opinions - in this case, not professional but political opinions - on the other hand, let us give our political and professional opinions. Because today's law also has a professional background, which goes through the law, which is written in the law, and which can be read from the text of the amendment. Dóra Dúró, for example, we can agree with the professional suggestions made by Jobbik, but no professional comments were received from the benches of the MSZP. I know that this is a genre, on the one hand, we are talking about a profession within the walls of this House, on the other hand, we are talking about political issues. However, I think that it is fitting that one should at least try a little on the part of the Socialist Group to support its political comments, so that it can also make professional arguments. I have missed this, ladies and gentlemen, in your speeches to argue with arguments as set out in the law, to make proposals, to make amendments that make them even better. That's all I wanted to draw attention to. Instead, you've been telling me your political lounges that have been washed up and thrown up a hundred thousand times. And I would like to say to Dóra Dúró that it is not enough just to see what applications have been won, but also what applications have been submitted. [[10.40]] For my part, I can only see who received it, but I can't see how many films have been submitted and how serious it is; I will watch it because I am interested. By the way, I would agree if, either on a level of government or in a structure governed by the law, the state were to promote a tender for which films and other works that specifically, so thematically, process Hungarian history, could apply; this would be worth discussing in the future. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-11-23-46	Thank you very much. Congresswoman Dóra Dúró! [[For signal:]] [[For signal:]] [[For signal:]] István Apáti! (To be indicated:) But you're gonna have to knock yourself out. (To be indicated:) Yes, I'll give the floor to Congressman Gergely Bárándy in two minutes.
u2016-11-23-47	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Congresswoman! I would like to make two comments on what you have said. You are mantra-soundingly repeating that we should present improvements, not only to this bill, but also in general. I have tabled hundreds of such amendments, Congresswoman, to various laws, but they do not bother to consider them in substance and explain in substance why they do not support them. And the fact is, they don't actually support any of them. I would like to ask you why the hell we should submit amendments when you are not willing to consider anything, you are not willing to support anything tabled by opposition representatives; this is one of my questions. From my own experience, I'll say it again, I've done a lot of this, I've submitted a lot, maybe one of the most in this House. The other is, you know, honourable Member, that if a system is fundamentally wrong, then there is nothing to improve, then that system must be changed, it must be thrown into the trash and a new one must be created. If a system is based on corruption, it cannot be carved with amendments. If a system is distorted, then it is a pity to make it a little less distorted - to create a new one instead! This is our opinion on this, which you have put here, and, by the way, a number of other legislative proposals to which we have not actually tabled any amendments. You know, we're not gonna make small amendments to a basically bad and corrupt system, so that at the end of the day, it looks like the opposition is so basically in agreement, it's just these few amendments that hurt what you've submitted. It's not like that, it's all hurting, the way it is, your corrupt government. [[The President shall ring a bell to indicate the expiry of the time limit.]] Your corrupt system in this area, too! Thank you very much.
u2016-11-23-48	Thank you, Congressman Bárándy. I give the floor in two minutes to President Dóra Dúró, Congresswoman.
u2016-11-23-49	Thank you, Mr. President. I would like to point out to the honourable Mrs Mónika Dunai that, until 2010, until the Fidesz government came to power, the Hungarian Historical Film Foundation existed in Hungary, where films of this kind were specifically supported. The first film action of the establishment of the Orbán government was to stop this. So, if you wanted to make a Hungarian historical film, then the foundation dealing with it should not have been abolished, thus making the system a one-stop shop in practice. Of course, you can apply for funding to the NMHH, the Ministry, but the vast majority of the money is allocated by the Film Fund itself. The topics listed in my previous speech, from King Matthias to István Tisza, to István Bethlen, were proposals submitted to the Film Fund, Congresswoman. There are applications like this, and they're being submitted, but I got to tell you, honestly, those producers, producers, directors that I've contacted, they say they're not even trying anymore, because they've been humiliated enough to be in a mood to create. This is a huge distortion of the system, Congresswoman. So this is such a vicious circle: we ask why they do not apply; they have applied, for years they have received no support, no support, while those six people have brought home ten billion in size. They have to keep their families from something now, Congresswoman. So, yeah, I get nervous when we talk about the Movie Fund's support system and distribution. Thank you.
u2016-11-23-50	Thank you very much. I can give you a fidesz two-minute window. Those who have applied will ask for a normal speech, so I will be able to give the floor, that is the house rule. I give the floor to Congresswoman Mónika Dunai in two minutes.
u2016-11-23-51	Dear colleague Gergely Bárándy, He asked me a question, and I'll answer it. He asked when his amendments had been accepted. For example, yesterday the Parliament discussed the proposal to which your fellow Member was associated not only with an amendment but also as a acceding national. Let us recall that a few weeks ago, the Legislative Committee had a property that affects the transfer of state and municipal property in the cultural sphere. Here you, the Socialist Group, tabled an amendment, and I myself said it was a pity that, at the last minute, this proposal could be supported professionally, the State Secretariat said so, but we do not have the request in mind to base this amendment. I suggested that these materials be collected and come in for a presentation. Your fellow Member, Sándor Kovács, has joined him as rapporteur. The other is an answer to an unanswered question. If you want to turn this law upside down and take it back because it's not good, then I'll ask you why you did this in 2004. This law was created in 2004, and was adopted by the Parliament at the time; it now changes the experience of the time since then and is intended to serve further bureaucracy reduction and transparency with a positive intention. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-11-23-52	Thank you very much. I give the floor to Congressman István Apáti, Jobbik.
u2016-11-23-53	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Mr Dömötör State Secretary has a special feature: he can make me speak even if I do not think of it. Dear Secretary of State, Wouldn't it be easier to say that this practice is truly outrageous, scandalous and should be changed? Wouldn't it be easier to admit they're making a mistake? Wouldn't it be easier to admit that legislation and enforcement are wrong in this regard? Let's turn the whole thing around and look at it with the opposite omen. I say this to the truly national sentiment and right-wing Fidesz Members, joining my fellow Member, Dóra Dúró. If, say, you were treated humiliatingly by a Holocaust filmmaker during the evaluation of a proposal, what would be here, Your Honour? They would shout snake frogs all over the country, and international news would say that anti-Semitism is raging again in Hungary, which is already reflected in film applications. Obviously, it would be outrageous if any movie, even a Holocaust filmmaker, were treated humiliatingly. But the humiliating treatment of a Hungarian historical filmmaker is equally unacceptable! Is that the only thing they're not gonna be upset about, because then they're gonna accuse filmmakers of having an extreme right-wing attitude from the other direction? Just tell me how you can justify giving six players 50% of the funding. Do you think that's normal? Let's say, if it were during a balliberal government, wouldn't you be the loudest? Put your hands on your hearts and think about it. Why can't you change that? It is not the problem, it is not the fact that a holocaust film is awarded a tender grant, but the problem is that it is only in this respect that they receive the application grants disproportionately. Hungarian history is so colourful and so rich that it could be an almost inexhaustible treasure trove, a gold mine for historical filmmakers, from the Battle of Bratislava to the kings of the House of Árpád, how many amazing films could be made that enhance national feeling and national self-consciousness and national self-esteem. Why don't you give me support for that? Speak of it, Secretary of State, don't make a good point about Saul's son, we've just cleared that up. Talk about why Andy Vajna, for example, is being given discounts here. [[10.50]] I'd like to ask him, but he's not here. How much money would he be satisfied with? Haven't you pocketed enough of the casinos? Didn't he chew the meatiest bites to the bone? Do you need the tiny crumbs, too? Aren't you ashamed of him? ! Doesn't the skin come off your face? ! And even then, you support your wife's company, and you don't want to tell me, do you want to make it public about how much Papa Vajna supports Mrs Tímea? He'd better make doughnuts. The first thing you need to learn is the doughnut roast, because, as we hear, he's not very good at it either. Don't get into the movie business, 'cause it's not for him. His favorite sandbox is in the doughnut shop! And you want these hundreds of millions? I'd really like to know how much money you stole, how much money you need. Answer this, Mr Secretary of State, and, above all, whether you are willing to change this outrageous practice in the near future. Can applicants for the production of Hungarian historical film expect to receive substantial support for the production of these films? Answer that question, and do not speak with it, and do not put into our mouth words that have never been spoken. Thank you. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2016-11-23-54	Thank you very much, Congressman. I give the floor to Secretary of State Csaba Dömötör.
u2016-11-23-55	I'm listening to the speeches here, and a word hit my ear, and this is scandalous. What is scandalous is that you deliberately mislead the Hungarian public about supporting certain Hungarian films. There are also concrete examples. For example, Congresswoman brought up the film The Horseman, claiming that she had not received any support. Although he didn't receive funding from the Film Fund, he received it from many other sources. [[Dóra Dúró: I didn't say he didn't get one. I was very specific, Mr. Secretary. Don't lie to me.]] I would like to ask you to look into it and explain to the public the amount of support this work has received. Allow me to quote your Facebook page. You did the same thing there. He's coming! He's coming! He's coming! The film Grey Nobodys, which is a work about World War I, deals with the heroes of five Hungarian soldiers. He also claimed that there was no support for this film from the Film Fund. One thing he didn't add was that he received 120 million HUF from the Media Patronage program. I would like to ask you not to mislead the public. [[Dóra Dúró: I will not mislead you! I'm talking about the Film Fund. It's true what I wrote down!]] But you are knowingly misleading public opinion. The congressman mentioned some extreme right-wing attitude. No one made any statements about the directors. If anyone is suspected of extreme right-wing cooperation, then it's your partner because he's working with forces that are militaristic movements and connected to police murders. [[Intercoms in Jobbik's ranks.]] Don't mix these two things up. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-11-23-56	Thank you very much. The next speaker is Mr István Happy, Fidesz.
u2016-11-23-57	Mr. President. Dear Parliament, I must be honest with my fellow Member of Apáti that I do not know how to bake doughnuts either. [[Dr. István Apáti: I trusted you! The president's ringing the bell.]] But I really like a good doughnut. I don't know how the theme of doughnuts came to the meeting. [[Dr. István Apáti: If you don't understand the connection, then...]] I'm pretty sure I don't care how anyone cooks doughnuts when I want to eat them, and then I eat them at home. [[Dr. István Apáti intervenes.]]
u2016-11-23-58	Congressman Abbot!
u2016-11-23-59	However, I would consider it a very important thing to have a completely objective view of this matter. I like Hungarian movies. This year I saw two good Hungarian films, I could say that both were about two historical eras. The first one was The Horseman, which was an excellent movie. It is not a historical film, although it is about Hungarians, it is about the traditions of Hungarians, it is about respect for the director, the creator, of course Lajos Kassai and all those who supported it, so it is about the Ministry of Agriculture, the Hungaricum Commission, the National Cultural Fund and many others. [[Dóra Dúró: I know. I'm talking about the Film Fund. Is a film supported by the Ministry of Agriculture when there is a Film Fund?]] So the Hungarian state stood behind this film, even if not from the Film Fund. The other film I saw, which was about the horrors of communism - I would like to draw attention here to the fact that there is finally such a movie - the movie The Martfű Terror. In the movie Martfűi Terror, ten years are being presented about the era of communism in Hungary. I suggest you all take a look. It's a sad movie, it's a terrible movie, but it's a good way to describe the era in addition to, of course, presenting a series of murders. I think that the Hungarian government is trying to stand behind every film with all its power. Behind the Martfű monster stood the Film Fund, behind the other, and the National Cultural Fund stood behind the Horseman. And I think it will continue to be so in the future. I would be happy if it were, as Congresswoman says, that there would be as many films about Hungarian history as possible, and I support it for my part, but I cannot judge the quality of the prepared scenarios that have been put in place - after I have not been able to do it and have not seen them. That's what professionals do. I'm rooting for as many of these films as possible. I don't know producers, writers, directors. I supported, for example, Sándor Pörzse's series with great heart. When you were a congressman here, I lobbied myself to get support for another episode on the Starway, unfortunately you refused. I hope that sooner or later he will continue this series now that the political career may have stopped a little, because it was an excellent Hungarian series on the Starway. For years, my little boy fell asleep reading his book Bulcsú. And for example, a serious historical film about Bulcsú's life could be made. I suggest that everyone who deals with this should think about it, and come with confidence to the Hungarian government, if not from the Film Fund, then I am sure that they will receive support from other funds, as Mr. State Secretary has said, and I have given an example to The Horseman, and then as many beautiful Hungarian films as possible can be made about the glorious days of Hungarian history. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-11-23-60	Thank you very much. I give the floor to Congressman Gergely Bárándy, MSZP.
u2016-11-23-61	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. I say to my fellow Member just to mention that I also like doughnuts and Hungarian films, for example, I often quote more and more of the movie A Witness these days. [[Defiance in Jobbik's ranks.]] I do not like it, Congressman, when doughnuts are a cookie who does not know how to do it, and when money for the development of films is skipped, and even less so if it is done by the same couple, when they are looking for the connection between the two manifestations. [[Dr. Répássy, Róbert: I don't understand.]] Don't you get it, Robby? It's okay, I'll tell you separately. Congresswoman said the system was similar. In my memory, there was no Film Fund, and I don't even remember Andy Vajna selling all the money in our time. For example, this is a big difference between the two systems, so I don't think it's worth comparing. But for which I basically asked for a word, that the Congresswoman gave excellent support to what I said - in quite a fine way - about the unnecessary nature of the amendments. He explained how this was done in the case of an amendment to the Bare. Yes, honourable Member, you've jumped over a few details of it, you know? And that is exactly what proves it, and it shows what your attitude is, and how you lack generosity and insight. An amendment tabled by my fellow Member and discussed at the meeting of the Legislative Committee, and it was indeed about the fate of a real estate in Szeged, I told you that the mayor of Szeged supported it, I told you, my fellow Member Sándor Burány told you that your Secretary of State supported the amendment and even suggested that we present it in this way. You referred at first to the fact that it was not house-ruled, and the Fidesz President of the Legislative Committee, President Gergely Gulyás, said that it was indeed house-ruled. There was a mix-up in you then, because you wanted to reject it on that basis; it didn't work. Then they sought other false arguments and asked the Member to present the same in a different way. On that day, Mr President, Mr President, you submitted the same thing differently, and instead of supporting the amendment, you literally submitted the same amendment as a fidesz amendment in order not to have to accept the opposition. All this, not out of generosity, but because the representatives in Szeged and close to it knew precisely that they would not be able to explain to citizens that they were not in favour of this proposal, so they tabled it as a fidesz amendment in order not to have to support the opposition. Is that a good example? Is that the positive example you're giving me, Congresswoman? You're kidding. The positive example would have been if you had looked something out of line, a substantial opposition amendment, and said that although we disagreed with the opposition on a conceptual issue, we said in this amendment that it was okay, be as the opposition suggests, let us say, for a compromise. [[11.00]] Let's say, in a civil order, a new code of conduct, where they refused to accept a single amendment from an opposition representative, none of them, in a code, Congresswoman! And now he comes up with an amendment, a positive example, where one has already been specifically rejected by arguments drawn out by his hair, and the other has been avoided by otherwise submitting a fidesz amendment with the same content? Yes, Congresswoman, that's what I'm talking about, and it's not worth giving you an amendment. Thank you.
u2016-11-23-62	Thank you very much, Congressman. I give the floor to Congressman Sándor Hadházy for two minutes, Fidesz.
u2016-11-23-63	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, I have to speak about my colleague Bárándy's contribution, because I was present at that legislative committee meeting myself. [[Dr. Gergely Bárándy: Then you remember...]] And I can tell you that the representative of the government supported the proposal, the amendment. During that period, I had a petition to settle the properties of the museums in Szentendre, and I can tell you that I had to take part in an approximately one and a half month consultation in order to prepare this properly and not only to obtain the support of EMMI, but also the National Tool Manager. This was not available at that time, and it was therefore not possible to make a meaningful decision on this issue. I am pleased that yesterday, in a very fair manner, the representative of the MSZP also acknowledged that this intention was enforced in this amendment and that a substantive decision was taken after the necessary consultations. So, my honourable fellow Member, it is my request that you explain the whole truth in the future. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2016-11-23-64	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I made a mistake because I should have told Mrs Mónika Dunai that we should get to the point and talk about the amendment of the motion picture law, but Mr Gergely Bárándy got into this thread, and now, of course, also the Member. I ask with great respect that we return to the bill amending the motion picture law. [[Dóra Dúró: That's right!]] Although, as I perceive it, Gergely Bárándy has a sentence. Here, say it.
u2016-11-23-65	Thank you, Mr. President. If you'll allow me, in the spirit of ending this subject, and I promise I won't say another word to him, I just don't think it's a good thing that one of these debates stays pending and there's no chance of a reaction. That's why I only had two minutes and not a proper speech. Dear Congressman Hadházy, That was precisely the problem that the Secretary of State said at the beginning that he supported the bill in substance, but unfortunately it is against house rules. At that time, Vice-President Balla was in charge of the committee meeting. Then Mr. Gergely Gulyás arrived, Mr. President. Gergely Gulyás took the opposite position and said that he thought it was house - regulation. I asked the Secretary of State then that, therefore, since this technical obstacle had been removed, he obviously supported this proposal then. The Secretary of State was very embarrassed and then sought another argument, which made him unable to support this proposal. In other words, it was simply said that they did not want to support an opposition proposal. If your State Secretary in a letter proposes this solution to my fellow Member, then I think that he has done so, so to speak, guided by his thoughtful intention. That's what I think. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] And that my fellow Member acknowledged - a sentence, Mr President, and I promise to finish this subject, and I will not mention it again - that your solution is a good proposal: of course he acknowledged it, because it was one-on-one with his own. Thank you very much.
u2016-11-23-66	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, I'm not giving you the floor on this subject. Continue this debate at a committee meeting, or perhaps bring it to the committee on a point of order. I give the floor to Congressman István Apáti, Jobbik.
u2016-11-23-67	Dear Parliament, First of all, let us go back to how, due to either legislative or law enforcement or other errors, we do not know how much Andy Vajna supported his own wife's film, his own wife's proposal. [[Dr. Répássy Robert's intervention.]] How can we not receive public information about this? In addition, we are talking about a competition for Facebook adverts that are full of spelling errors, so not only do doughnuts, but also Hungarian spelling is the problem of this capable lady. These would need to be clarified in order to eliminate these striking disproportionateities. I would ask the President to give me, at least for one minute, the opportunity to respond to the nasty attacks on the agenda that Mr Dömötör has turned on. [[The president's nodding.]] Here he again began his contacts with the armed organisations on the far right. Well, then I'd like to make a few suggestions so you can think about it. Dear Secretary of State, The MNA in 2012 at Tapolca, when the city was led by the mayor of Fidesz, now led by a betterman, did you happen to have training? How could the MNA have trained in a Fidesz-led settlement? Or it will soon be revealed that a mayor of Jász-Nagykun-Szolnok County was a member of MNA when he was young. That's what we should be dealing with. By the way, obviously, we had nothing to do with a lot of police murders. Of course, the killer himself, the shooter of the deadly shot, is responsible, but also those police officers who didn't send TEK out to apprehend such a person are responsible. We could say that if we wanted to lower ourselves as much as you do sometimes, that they deliberately created a situation so that a 46-year-old family father with two children would die in order to attack us. We could say that if we followed your logic, but we don't. [[Dr. Répássy Róbert: Come on!]] István Győrkös Jr. is the second cousin of the President of the Republic. Let's not say that János Áder has anything to do with the murder of a police officer, let's not say that. But perhaps it has something to do with the fact that for 26 years the Hungarian secret services have done to this organization as bad football players. You know, bad football players watch the game at close range without paying a ticket. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] Now, that's what the Secret Service did for 26 years, during the MSZP-SZDSZ government, during the Fidesz government, when they knew what these people were doing; they knew what they were up to; they knew they had sharp firearms. [[The president's ringing again.]] They knew that they were organizing trainings; they knew that they were connected to the Russian countermeasures, and yet they were allowed to bubbly. Is it not because once they cross the line, then their political opponents can be unduly revolved and wrongly attacked by other political actors? [[The president's ringing again.]] So look inside you, because this is a hundred percent your responsibility and the last 26 years' responsibility. Thank you. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2016-11-23-68	Thank you very much. Please, let's get back to the movie law. [[Dr. István Apáti: Thank you for the opportunity to answer.]] I'll see if anyone else wants to comment. [[No signal.]] I don't see any contact. Dear Parliament, The general debate is closed. I ask the rapporteur, Mr Csaba Dömötör, if he wishes to respond to what was said in the debate. [[For signal:]] You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2016-11-23-69	Thank you very much. I wouldn't want to answer that because it seems that Jobbik has something to say about the relationship between the National Front Line and Jobbik. [[Interviews from Jobbik's benches: Let's make a movie about it... we'll see.]] So we can give him a day of debate where he can tell us everything he has to say. [[Dr. István Apáti: You started it!]] I would like to thank all the Members for giving their views. Regardless of the party political attacks, I concluded that many of the people sitting here are very fond of the fate of Hungarian film and Hungarian film production. We talked about results here from the beginning. I am pleased that you do not question the fundamental results of the last year, even if the Hungarian Socialist Party joins the Democratic Coalition and refuses to work here in Parliament and will not submit amendments. [[Dr. Gergely Bárándy: This is the stupidest thing I've heard in a long time. What are you talking about? You were here?]] You didn't doubt that [[Dr. István Apáti's intervention.]] Budapest is the most important film production site in Europe after London in 2016. The importance of having more than a hundred Hungarian works awarded international awards in recent years was not questioned. Nor does it mean that since the establishment of the Film Fund, the capacity of the Hungarian film industry has tripled, and this also means that the biggest contribution of the film industry to GDP in the EU is now the largest in Hungary. In any case, one thing follows that it is worth going on the journey we have begun. With the amendments that we are discussing today, we want the regulatory environment to be more effective, more transparent, and also adapted to international trends in film production. [[11.10]] We also need to adapt to the fact that next year films are expected to be produced in Hungary for HUF 85 billion. Our aim is to preserve the competitiveness that has been strengthened by the work of thousands of Hungarian professionals in recent years. The Hungarian film, I think, has serious traditions. This is on the part of our national pride, and we cannot give it any lower than it is to make Budapest one of the citadels of European film production. We ask your support for this work. Thank you for listening. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2016-11-23-70	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, The amendments may be submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. Now, Honourable Parliament, the general debate on the bill on official statistics will follow up until closure. Government referral T/12924. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. I declare that the presentation will be discussed as an EU item on the agenda by the Parliament. First, I give the floor to Minister of State Nándor Csepreghy, Secretary of State of the Prime Minister's Office, author of the item on the agenda.
u2016-11-23-71	Mr President, Dear Parliament, Thank you very much for the floor. I expect less ember debate than in the previous amendment of the law, although if the ambitions mentioned by my colleague of State Secretary-General are met, the film industry will also have a demonstrable result in terms of statistical indicators for the Hungarian national economy. I think that, despite the previous debate, all parliamentary groups can agree on this, and we have established a consensus. Mr President, Turning to the bill on statistics, allow me to explain some of the basics to the Parliament. I also think that there is agreement and consensus that statistics are an important tool for democracy, as they give a very precise measure of policy debates to which all parliamentary parties, or even public opinion interested in public affairs, can express their views or take their views on certain issues. If it is an important tool for democracy, it is very important to talk about data from independent sources, reliable data, data obtained on the basis of a factual and scientifically sound methodology, the quality of which has been verified and its publicity ensured. Therefore, based on information, anyone can receive support from a public body in their policy, economic policy or business and personal decisions. The Law on Statistics was adopted by the Hungarian Parliament 23 years ago, and the law had to be amended 27 times in the last 23 years. Official statistics, its domestic and international operating environment, changes in IT infrastructure, changes in the legal environment of the European Union, including the legislation on the functioning of the European statistical system, also require a radical transformation of national rules on official statistics and the functioning of the CSF, which can be guaranteed and guaranteed in a consistent manner only by creating a new statistical law that is consistent with today's view of the government. Honourable Members, The amendment of the Regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council on statistics is in line with the so-called six-pack adopted during the Hungarian EU Presidency, the requirements for statistical reliability. In addition, the Council's initiative to reduce the administrative burden for economic operators is supported by the new legislation before you. Ladies and Gentlemen, In the changed regulatory environment, it is therefore appropriate to lay down rules on official statistics in a new law. When defining the status of the Central Statistical Office and the rules governing the official statistical service, the bill ensures that the official statistics have adequate guarantees in order to ensure the effectiveness and effectiveness of their operation. The bill further strengthens the rules on the professional independence of the KSH as a government office and the powers of the President of the KSH. Accordingly, in order to ensure professional independence, the draft law states that the legislation and the instruments governing public bodies should be without prejudice to the professional independence of the Central Statistical Office. The bill confirms that the President of the Central Statistical Office cannot be instructed in his statutory function. The bill also regulates in detail the rules on the appointment of the President and Deputy Chairpersons of the HCSO. The bill regulates in detail the data protection safeguards for access to administrative data and, of course, the practical rules for the transfer of data. It is a very important guarantee that the law continues to clearly state that the use of individual data processed for statistical purposes is prohibited for non-statistical purposes, in particular the use of individual data in criminal, civil, non-court proceedings, administrative procedures and the transfer of domestic legal assistance. On this basis, the specific statistical data, i.e. a set of data or data that allows direct or indirect identification of the undertaking, institution or person to which the data relate, using the best technical options at all times, should not be disclosed in accordance with the previous legislation. The bill makes very limited exceptions to the above rule. These exceptions include, in particular, the exercise of the data provider's right to provide his or her own data, the transfer of the European statistical system to the European system of central banks in the case of legal provision at EU level, and the transfer of data between the official statistical service, which is justified by the cost-effective and better quality production of official statistics. In line with EU regulatory practice, the bill provides for specific rules for access to official statistical data for scientific purposes. In many cases, more detailed data than tabular data are needed for scientific research, for which there may be a risk of indirect identification. In addition to adequate data protection safeguards, the bill allows the scientific research of these data, recognising the high national interest for the scientific purpose. In summary, this bill complies with international rules and practices on modern statistical regulation in all respects, strengthens the independence of the Central Statistical Office, ensures the conditions for the effective production of official statistics according to uniform principles and provides adequate guarantees for both the producers of statistics, reporting agents and users. Thank you very much for your attention. In this spirit, I ask you to support the bill. Thank you, Mr. President. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2016-11-23-72	Thank you, Secretary of State Csepreghy. Dear Parliament, Now we're going to hear the speeches from the lead speaker. First, I give the floor to Mr Zoltán Bóna, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group.
u2016-11-23-73	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, In mid-November, the Government presented the proposal that we are now discussing, which is necessary to fulfil the obligation to harmonise legislation resulting from the implementation of the amendment to Regulation (EC) No 223/2009 and to implement the recommendations made in relation to the audit of the European Code of Statistics. The proposal concerns the drafting of a law on official statistics and supplementing the provisions on the status of the HCSO. As a decision-maker, I think it is extremely important that we work on the basis of accurate, controlled quality information and make decisions. I believe that the European Parliament took a similar position when it amended the regulation. The new law includes detailed rules on the appointment and dismissal of the President of the HCSO, the coordination powers and procedures within the official statistical service, including the development of a Code of Practice for National Statistics, the establishment of accreditation and review powers for members of the official statistical service, and the establishment of a National Statistical Coordination Board to discuss matters relating to coordination within the official statistical service. The above-mentioned regulation and, consequently, the proposal aims to strengthen the coordination role of the national statistical offices. Article 5 of the Regulation provides that the coordinating role of NSH shall cover all other national authorities responsible for the development, production and publication of European statistics as defined in the European Statistical Programme in accordance with Article 1. In particular, NSH shall be responsible for coordinating statistical planning and reporting, quality control, methodology, data transmission and communication on statistical activities of the European statistical system at national level. [[11.20]] In accordance with the above provisions, the Act on Official Statistics states that the official statistical service may be a member of an organisation which publishes official data as part of its public mission and whose organisation and operation comply with the Code of Practice for National Statistics and the European Statistical Regulation. The legislation grants the President of the HCSO several rights, and it follows that the basis for coordination consists of a set of guidelines and principles drawn up in cooperation with the members of the official statistical service but issued by the President of the HCSO. I would like to point out that the most important new instrument for monitoring will be the accreditation procedure to be carried out by the HCSO. The accreditation will be based on a self-assessment questionnaire and include an on-the-spot audit meeting. The aim of accreditation is primarily to explore areas for development and to define measures on this basis. I note that the detailed rules of the accreditation procedure will be laid down in the government decree relating to the law. On the other hand, coordination on data collections should be mentioned. Statistical surveys carried out by the official statistical service for the reference year are included in the national statistical survey programme. Let me point out that under the national statistical survey programme, only mandatory data collections for specific categories of persons required by the Government regulation are covered under the current legislation. For the sake of consistency, the programme will not only include mandatory data collections required by the government regulation, but also serve as a framework for the official statistical service's data collection activities. Overall, I can say that, with the exception of data on natural persons, mandatory direct data collection will continue to be included in a government decree, the professional content of which will have to be compiled by coordinating the HCSO. On the second subject, I would like to describe the legal status and professional independence of the HCSO. The status of KSH would continue to be a government office, but the law contains several specific provisions - ensuring professional independence - which are different from the general rules on government offices. Of course, a general guarantee will be laid down, but we can also discuss the organisational, budgetary and individual autonomy of the President separately. The third unit is about access to administrative stocks. In order to reduce the burden on reporting agents, European legislation requires national statistical services to have access to administrative and official data sources and registers immediately and free of charge for statistical processing, as this potentially triggers direct collections of data on entities and natural persons. The concept of administrative records is linked here, which would be defined as a secondary source of data in which the collection or keeping of stored data is required by law for the administrator of the administrative data source. The purpose of this provision is to ensure that, where it does not prejudice the original purpose of data processing, administrative records use concepts, classifications or data that make them suitable for statistical use, thereby triggering direct data collection and reducing the burden on data providers or improving the quality of the statistics. Where appropriate administrative records are available, the administrative burden of reporting agents will be reduced. Not least, let us look at the subject of data access and disclosure. Statistical data are public with the exceptions laid down by law, as the basic purpose of the statistics is information. At the same time, it is essential to ensure adequate data protection in order to maintain the confidence of reporting agents. Specific data processed in the framework of statistical surveys shall be used for statistical purposes only. It shall be prohibited to use it for purposes other than any non-statistical process. The rules for the management of statistical data shall be laid down in the internal rules by the Head of the HCSO and of the Official Statistical Service. It is an important rule that the members of the official statistical service may exchange data collected for statistical purposes in order to produce statistics effectively, but this exchange of data should not extend to individual data other than MNB, as provided for in the HCSO and MNB laws. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Overall, official statistics are an important tool for democracy, allowing data users to base their decisions on data generated from independent sources using public and scientifically based methodologies. In view of the above, I ask that you support this proposal. The Group of the Fidesz-Hungarian Civic Alliance expresses its support. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of Fidesz.]]
u2016-11-23-74	Thank you very much, Congressman Bona. I now give the floor to the lead speaker of the MSZP Group, Member Gergely Bárándy.
u2016-11-23-75	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, I deeply agree with you, as with my fellow Member Bona, that statistics are an important tool for democracy, but I would nevertheless like to add that this is why we should not manipulate and forge data. When the system of brakes and counterweights is broken down in a country, when a deep blow is introduced to the system of power sharing, when an autocratic system is established, a XXI. Then I think that it is completely unnecessary to carve laws on public bodies, because nothing in the world will change. You, Mr Secretary of State, as the authors usually do when it comes to public law issues, talk about a correct, ideal system, but unfortunately the problem is that this is not the Hungarian system. The things you've said, they're correct sentences. But it would be even more appropriate if these sentences could be integrated into the Hungarian system. The only problem is that reality and what you've told me are antagonistically opposed. It may be, Mr Secretary of State, that, from now on, the bill will state that legislation and the instruments governing public bodies should not prejudice the professional independence of the HCSO. It's an acceptable sentence. What's the point of all this if the President himself offends you? The appointment of the heads of departments and heads of departments of the HCSO does not require the approval of the Prime Minister's Office. This could also be a correct sentence, and it would also be good if not everyone in this country was directed directly or indirectly by Viktor Orbán. It doesn't matter whether it's declared in the law or not, it's real. Therefore, it is unnecessary to carve these laws. Of course, there is a provision worthy of criticism among them. We, Hungarian parliamentary factions, parties, and foreign organizations, have not once challenged it, and have done so, that it is wrong that the government intends to cement its own people for longer and longer periods of time, where appropriate, in the leading positions of independent public bodies. He already understood this criticism of the mandate of the Constitutional Judges in the case of the Hungarian Government, the Parliament, but it was the same with regard to the Supreme Prosecutor, the President of the Curia, the President of the OBH, and I could mention it, where the term of office was raised from 5 to 6 years to 9 years. Now they're doing the same thing at the Statistical Office, it's true that there's not much change here, it's being raised from 6 to 7 years. What I don't know is why they might expect an election of 22 and that the mandate would have expired in 19 and thus last until 21, I don't know, Mr. Secretary of State might give us an answer, but to be honest, it doesn't matter, because I think this trend cannot be maintained. Dear Secretary of State, It is also a good thing that the president and vice-chairman of the HCSO wish only to appoint a person - of course, I note that you have managed to deviate over the past few years - who has gained time and experience in the official statistical service. [[11.30]] However, I think that it is absolutely unnecessary to legislate this, Mr. Secretary of State. If a system believes that a person can be appointed to the head of an extremely important state office or to the second person who does not know the area at all, then there is a huge problem. I believe this can be recorded, but it's almost unnecessary. So these are all guarantee elements, and what you were talking about, which in the world is on fire, precisely because of the Hungarian general order of state today, will not guarantee the independence of the Statistical Office any better. They will manipulate data just as they have done so far, and they will hide data on poverty as they have done so far, and they will manipulate data on the labour market, unemployment, as they have done so far. Nothing in the world is gonna change. That is why, ladies and gentlemen, this proposal deserves nothing more than that. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Dr. László Varga and Dr. Ákos Hadházy applaud.]]
u2016-11-23-76	Thank you very much, Congressman Bárándy. I now give the floor to Mr Zsolt Egyed, the lead speaker of the Jobbik Group.
u2016-11-23-77	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, Here, in the debate of the statistics law, I could begin my speech with Winston Churchill's famous sentence, but I think this would be a tasteless prank here in this House. But seriously, what we're talking about here is that there's actually going to be a legal amendment. Of course, not because you considered this important, but because EU legislation obliges the government to change this status now. It is very important to point out at the outset that the perception of the average person in Hungary in relation to CSF and other statistics is what it is at the moment because, for example, I could immediately refer to one of your success stories, the extremely positive development of the unemployment rate, which you believe is included in every person who works up to 5 thousand kilometers, who lives from up to 50,000 forints. And you communicate this to the country by virtually having reached the level that there is hardly any unemployed, everyone is working. But what is reality? I don't think that's a convincing argument in the eyes of people who work as public workers for 50,000 forints. You know very well that they are a statistical data to you. He earns 50,000 forints as a good man's public worker, he's checked out, he's working ergo, he's not unemployed. But there are other things to talk about in terms of statistics. For example, it might be possible to bring here the data you say about inflation, that there is virtually no inflation in Hungary. It's just that, unfortunately, we have to say again that that's not what ordinary people are experiencing. Because the luxury car may cost less than last year, but the bread and the milk that every person buys every day is more. But the saloon comes out at the end, so maybe the numbers are right, but you don't buy TV every day, and that's why everybody eats it every day. Returning to the bill itself after a little detour: we believe that Jobbik's position is that it is very worrying that, in principle, the independent leader of an independent organization will be appointed only by the Prime Minister's Office and Prime Minister Viktor Orbán himself, so let us be honest, his independence can be quoted here. The other very important thing is that, in this way, we believe that the independence that you and the Secretary of State have referred to here, as rapporteur, will not be achieved. In our opinion, there could be a solution to this bill, so that even the head of this office is appointed so that Parliament, together with the opposition parties, proposes a leader, and whichever candidate has the majority of the votes of Parliament's supporters, the Prime Minister may appoint the head of the office, the head of this office. Another very important thing to mention is that we would also welcome it very much in this case, and perhaps this would be an opportunity for ordinary people, working people, to improve their perception of statistics and statistics if they could participate in the preparation of these statistics by independent NGOs or even companies with a past in this sector. Of course, I do not mean that you, as a governing party, or your moonyard, are making five or six of these companies quickly, and then they will assist in this, but we are talking here about organisations, companies, where appropriate, who have a decade-long history in this sector. I think that this should certainly be considered as an improvement proposal, because in this form this bill is not really eligible for us, because there is no control in the bill that is actually real and that statistics that are actually being used and that are viewed by people that are covering reality; because in recent years, decades, it has been shown that if we scrape the surface a little bit, the story is not as cheerful. Another example of this could be set, which KSH also carried out annually in relation to minimum living research. In 2015, he announced that such research in 2014 was the last one he did. I believe that this happened because this research revealed that 40 percent of Hungarians live in poverty, and this did not really fit in with the government's propaganda and economic development communicated by the government. So here, in our opinion, it was better for you not to talk about it, and then perhaps there are no poor people in Hungary. Unfortunately, reality is in stark contrast to that, because there are. So all I can say now is that we are going to submit our amendments to the bill, and if they find an open door, we will consider the support, but unfortunately in this form we cannot support the bill. Thank you very much.
u2016-11-23-78	Thank you very much, Congressman Zsolt Egyed. I now give the floor to Mr Ákos Hadházy, the lead speaker of the LMP Group. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2016-11-23-79	Thank you very much. Mr President, In such a speech, when we are in about such a small, simple company, we are in friendly company, one wonders who to say it to. Of course, politicians always like the public, and they like to be watched, and they can say what they want to say. I think when we think about how many Facebook views can be achieved with such a speech, maybe statistics are not the calling word that can generate them most. But statistics are an extremely important thing. We don't like it, but it's extremely important, especially when statistics may be abused. I mean, statistics can say, they can explain everything if we don't explain it correctly, or we don't tell them everything in it. Statistics can be used to deceive people, and when we talk about the state of a country and use data describing the state of the country, it can deceive more people. We can fool ourselves with it, and obviously there is a very high risk of it, on the one hand, of making further decisions, of further government decisions in such a deceiving state. On the other hand, people can be tried to deceive, but I think that this is probably the hardest, because everyone knows that everything here is extremely good and everything is very beautiful, and we should be satisfied with everything in principle, but I think that the Hungarian people, if anything, can see from this that the Statistical Office, KSH, does not work as it should. [[11.40]] Of course, statistics can also deceive international businessmen. We've seen this, we've seen a Greek example. The Greeks lied for years, we saw how it turned out. We've seen how disastrous this has all come to an end. This is an extremely important question, especially when the credibility of the government in Hungary, whether we are telling the truth, is very questionable. The Prime Minister used to say that there is no corruption in Hungary, that only the opposition is blaming corruption in Hungary and that there is zero tolerance against corruption. If a prime minister dares to say this, and the ceiling does not break because it is well built, then why should a foreign businessman not doubt the data given by the statistical office of the country to which this man is Prime Minister? Of course you can doubt him. Once again, if we add, say, the Greek example, then we can doubt it. Of course, when the Statistical Office serves the government, it can do so in two ways. There's evidence of one, and there's no evidence of the other yet, although that's why you can think of the other. In one way, you can do it by falsifying or at least distorting data. And the other is, if you don't publish it, you're gonna deny it or you're gonna hide it. That's what they say, that the Szekler man is always telling the truth, at best he doesn't tell the truth at the same time. This can be done by the Statistical Office if it is withholding data or counting data in a different way than it should be. Of course, we have no evidence of forgery, because it would have to be in there. However, it is called Eximbank, whose balance sheet should be included in the deficit data, that the European Union is not counting as it should, as we have a bank. This is the most important figure in terms of the country's debt. When this debt is calculated, the Statistical Office does not include Eximbank data. This bank, which is a foreign trade bank, should help him with foreign trade, for example, gave Andy Vajna money to buy TV2 and then to insult opposition politicians in as many ways as possible, or to give money so that Garancsi, the leader of Videoton, could build on the Lágymányosi Peninsula. Technically, there are such delicacies, which are not so small, since the country's debt is measured in percentages. Foreign businessmen look at these numbers. However, if we go a little further, we can see how it presents the data it receives or how the Statistical Office does not present these data. Indeed, there are specific shortcomings, concrete and demonstrable shortcomings in this, which say that the Statistical Office depends on the government. This is the case when poverty figures were not disclosed before the municipal elections in 2014. At that time every year, poverty figures were released. Now they said they didn't, because we don't need to know it for the good people, and then we'll drop it off after the election. Or such a clear bias or addiction is indicated by the fact that the minimum of living has simply been abolished. They said it's stupid, you don't need a minimum of life. Obviously, it's in the interest of people to feel that there are a lot of people living under the minimum of living, but they still say it might be different, because even if they see on the news, oops, that's the minimum of living, and that's my salary, then maybe they'll growl. But fortunately, there is the Statistical Office, whose boss, Mr Csepreghy's boss, has been his boss so far, so the Minister in charge of the Prime Minister's Office was under the authority of the Statistical Office, and then he solves it, not counting on a minimum of technical reasons. However, when you think that there is something very nice to say here, you will not use employment data with such gloves, and you will show them nicely, but you will never add how much of those employment data are publicly employed and how much of the Hungarian emigrated abroad. These data are virtually impossible to reach on the website how much Hungarians emigrated abroad. These are published in the current reports, and then quickly removed. The only way to find out is to keep a close eye and get these things out fast. We would also suggest that to count the number of Hungarians emigrated, we should contact and cooperate with the Statistical Office of foreign states. You are saying now that this is going to make a very big change, because so far this office has not been independent. Indeed, it was not, for Mr Lazarus was practically his boss, the Mr Lazarus, who said that there was nothing there for the tramps. He said it in the camera, and he smiled that nothing happened there. This man was the Minister of Inspectorship for the Hungarian Statistical Office. I don't think that was a particularly good reference. They say it'll be different from now on. We say that there will be no other way, really nothing will change, because the Prime Minister will continue to appoint the head of the Statistical Office. Well, that's okay, because there are some people in there who can be good professionals and work on this for ten years, and I think it's the least I can do, but he's absolving me. So you can excuse him at any time if he doesn't like what the head of the Statistical Office is doing. Plus, he can appoint whoever he wants. In normal countries - the Hungarian is not normal, unfortunately, now the Hungarian state is functioning everything but normal - they are marked by professional organisations. [[Happy Stephen: You're not normal!]] I mean the state and the government, Congressman. Professional organizations mark these people. Here, too, it would be desirable for the Statistical Committee of the Hungarian Academy of Sciences or the National Statistical Society to perform the nominations and elections, so when we choose who to be president, we should participate in a third-third proportion of the governing parties, the opposition and professional organisations. Then we could say that we can be sure that the head of the Statistical Office is independent, and then we can say that we are sure that those poverty figures are either emigration data, or those sovereign debt figures, or those data on economic growth, are real, not the victims of certain manipulations. In addition, if we really wanted to do what we have to do, the work of the HCSO would be evaluated every year by an independent professional supervision and the evaluation should be accepted by Parliament in two-thirds and the budget should be based on a truly normative basis. It would be desirable, there was such in Hungary, there was a process ten years ago that we had foreign experts examine our statistical system. That's when a positive change really started. And then we see what's been going on since then, so when they're simply running the minimum of living. It would still be desirable to have the Statistical Office vetted by foreign experts. I wonder when you'll have the guts to do that. Of course, with Russian experts, they can do that, and they love them at Paks. Thank you very much. [[Happy Stephen: Great speech! Foolish hole blows crazy winds!]]
u2016-11-23-80	Thank you very much, Congressman Ákos Hadházy. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. Nándor Csepreghy asked for the floor.
u2016-11-23-81	Mr President, Thank you very much for the floor. Allow me to ask myself on behalf of Madam President, who does not have the opportunity to speak in this debate before I answer the substantive questions. The fact is that the statisticist of Hungary, whom international organisations, the United Nations, among other things, consider to be one of the most serious experts in Hungary, and not only in Hungary, but also in the region, is subject to such political accusations because you do not like a bill submitted by the government, I think it is unethical and unfair. This applies to all speakers who think that it is the attack on the President's person that they are able to catch on the government. I can agree with that, discuss professional questions, and I would like to answer them, but I would definitely like to advance this. I also think that the answer to all three opposition speakers is that the fact that the picture in the mirror does not like the person who looks at it does not mean that the mirror is wrong. If data that are on the agenda on different issues and which are also part of political debates cannot be embedded in a political context, it does not mean that data is the problem, unless it strengthens the narrative that a political force would like to push down the throat of Hungary. [[11.50]] I do remember that, and if I remember correctly, Mr President, he first received a mandate in 2006, when János Veres did not publish the basic figures on the budget as usual before the 2006 elections, but was specifically scheduled after the elections, so that Hungarian people would not have a real decision-making opportunity when it was really necessary to make a decision on where the country's fate should go. Of course, it is questionable - and this is only a theoretical issue afterwards - how the 2006 elections would have resulted if these data had been made public not after the elections, but before that. And, you know, Congressman Bárándy, I often hear from MSZP Members that there is no democracy in Hungary, there is no system of safeguards, weights and balances that can guarantee that Hungary has actually developed on a continuous democratic path since 1990, but that it sees opposite processes. Only when you are always setting an example, such as the United States, will you always tell us what lessons the Hungarian administration system could draw from, for example, the functioning system of the United States and how it could raise them. For example, the fact that there are organisations whose executives have a longer term of appointment than a political cycle, I think that this is precisely the guarantee. As I understand it, just after the presidential election in America, President Trump, President-elect, will have the task of appointing a judge-in-chief whose mandate is essentially a lifetime mandate. We think that a fundamental guarantee of a democracy is that there are organisations whose management, its President, its Vice-Presidents are authorised to do different work across government mandates. I propose here that Congressman Hadházy be made aware of the facts, because the President of the HCSO is indeed appointed for seven years, but there is no possibility of absolution in the hands of the Prime Minister. So, once again, we are faced with a statement in which you only partially unfold the threads of truth, and then, as the Szeklers you mentioned, you tell the truth, just not at the time and not at the place where you begin. To raise Jobbik: allow me, Congressman, to try to interpret one question. From my point of view, the person who works, and now is indifferent to what kind of work he does, works, the employee. Another argument is whether the claim that he can earn, whether he is a public employee or in the public sector or in the market conditions, is sufficient for his livelihood. So I'm willing to have that debate. But what I don't understand is that you're not willing to acknowledge a significant part of the workforce. In 2010, the current government said that we would undertake to create a million new jobs in ten years. By 2010-2016 we were able to increase the number of employees by 650 thousand. It is a legitimate debate whether or not it is worth doing something in order to bring people from public employment into market employment even more effectively, or within public employment where there is no real chance of employment on the market, unfortunately, in some parts of the country, we can achieve higher wages. But people who had received any benefits from the state before 2010 without having to cross a blade of grass, and now doing some socially useful work, I do not think that they should and should not be shampooed together. And I'm asking you not to look down on these people, people who might have no choice but to do other types of work, and I think that those who do work must be included in employment statistics. It's a question of inflation. It's another story that's hard to deal with. [[Zsolt Egyed: I believe it!]] Thus, international standards determine in each country, in each EU Member State, the factors on which inflation is to be calculated, and on the basis of these figures, a number comes out at the end of the equation or formula. This either shows that there is inflation or shows that there is no inflation. Everywhere I look at the numbers, that number shows the same thing. The question of interpretation is, of course, quite different what conclusions can be drawn from this. To be involved in the production of statistics by market companies, I think that's nonsense. There are types of public tasks that the state apparatus must be able to carry out. A serious state apparatus needs to be able to do that. The Hungarian statistical system is also a standard according to European standards, and I think that it does not depend on whether they have any cooperation with market companies. I cannot imagine a market participant in Hungary who has a more serious professional competence, a more serious research historical background or access to any information in which he could do better work than the staff of the Statistical Office. So I don't think there should be any market cooperation here. You know, Congressman, we are also debating a lot here in Parliament, but I also follow the speeches of the parliamentary parties at various professional conferences on how the XXI changes. The functioning of the socio-economic system of the 20th century For a century. What I see is that there is evidence in that, and I look at any party's speeches, that it is factual, that the 21st edition of the 21st edition of the European Parliament is an act of independence. It should be interpreted in a completely different dimension. If this statement is formulated and is seen as an evidence, then let me ask you: those metrics or practices, as we measure the evolution of different social processes, why do they not regard it as an evidence that this also needs to be changed? And the adoption of the relevant European Union initiatives in Hungary is not about what you want to say, that any statistics will be manipulated here, because the data itself is the result of the work of the Statistical Office that a data is produced. How this is interpreted is not the task of the Statistical Office; according to the various interpretations, it is happening here in Parliament, in professional organisations, and it is on this basis that investors really decide whether they are coming to Hungary or not. Thank God, I think more and more people are coming, and this proves, for example, that the Hungarian economy is working well. I would also like to say to Mr Hadházy that it is worth making a distinction between what is data and what is the explanation of the data. One of them is accountable to the Central Statistical Office, and the explanation is no. And it is also true that if a representative talks about normal Hungary, it is also possible to note that if a member of the government, who represents a bill, listens to the Member and tries to reflect on it, at least receives eye contact or respect for attention from a representative. It seems that this genre does not yet work in your normal Hungary. I hope that you will receive substantial information, where appropriate, on the important lessons learned from the flight. Congressman, that's part of your half-truths again, which you tried to put in Prime Minister's mouth. Prime Minister has never said that there is no corruption in Hungary. Prime Minister said there is zero tolerance to corruption. If there were no corruption in Hungary, there would be no criminal reports, no court decisions on various corruption cases. [[Agnes Kunhalmi: Not enough!]] He said there's zero tolerance in Hungary. On the issue of eximbankos, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the statistical offices of six European countries are arguing with each other and the European Commission on how and how public expenditure is to be calculated according to the statistical calculation. Allow me also to draw your attention, Mr President, although it is difficult for the LMP to take into account its attitude to European issues because it is trying to protect the values of the community while ignoring the fact that this community has countless resignations and numerous opportunities. Such an opportunity to become members of the European Community in 2004 is a question of free movement of labour. So I can accept that you see this as a negative trend, that a number of Hungarians are working within the territory of the European Union, outside Hungary, and that you would like to deduct these people from the statistical calculations, but on this basis I could also say why you do not ask whether you are included in the statistical calculations or not, for example, those workers from other Member States of the European Union who are contributing to the development of the Hungarian national economy here in Hungary. So Congressman says half-truths. I'd like to ask you, if you're quoting someone, at least do it exactly, like an accuracy man. And when you talk about external accountability, don't forget the facts, such as the fact that the European Commission or Eurostat have been monitoring the operation and the data published by the HCSO on a number of occasions, as well as the procedures under which their work is carried out, according to what professional standards, and in this, the HCSO has always received an excellent rating. I believe that this bill can strengthen this professional work. Thank you, Members, who have listened to the answer, for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] [[Dr. János Latorcai, vice-president of the Parliament, takes the chair.]]
u2016-11-23-82	Welcome, fellow Members. Ladies and gentlemen, We're gonna have two-minute comments. I shall speak first from the group of the MSZP to Mr Nándor Gúr, the notary of the Parliament. Here you go.
u2016-11-23-83	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I will also say a lot of things in connection with a longer speech, and now after Nándor Csepreghy's earlier speech, I would only deal with one piece of public employment. [[12.00]] And that is from an aspect that you like to use, Mr Secretary of State, that those on the opposition side - no matter which party they belong to - do not look down on the public workers. I'd like to tell you, Mr. Secretary, if you don't know, you're the ones who look down on them. You, because in 2010, these people - I mean, the people who work for the public - received HUF 60,200 net in their hands, then came Marcell Zsiga and some of your benches, who confirmed that it was possible to make a living of HUF 47,000, and today these public workers receive HUF 52,000, which, if we count aggregate inflation, is not much more than forty or a few thousand forints. In English, your government has taken a third of the wages of the public employees in purchasing power through its actions. And it's not statistical manipulation, it's factual. If anyone looks down on the public employees, they're you on the one hand. On the other hand, because many people have been put in a situation where their self - respect is damaged because they are engaged in, or are not allowed to pursue, activities that are virtually detrimental to their personal self - esteem. So they don't want to take part in public employment to sign the blackout in the morning and in the afternoon, they want to do real, value-creating work. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] And unfortunately, in a lot of cases, that's not the case. Mr. President, thank you very much.
u2016-11-23-84	Thank you very much, Mr. Notary. Mr Ákos Hadházy has also applied for a two-minute speech from the LMP Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2016-11-23-85	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I would say to the Secretary of State that I didn't really make eye contact. I'm a little embarrassed, so when someone keeps lying to me, I don't want to look them in the eye. I'm really embarrassed, that might be my character flaw. I didn't say that the explanations should be made here by KSH, but by not publishing data that are unpleasant, it is obviously involved in manipulation, and it is obviously positive for the government when, for example, it doesn't count a minimum amount of money, or it immediately takes the data from the employment data, how much they expose to people working abroad. I do not understand why you do not miss the data of Hungarians working abroad, and I understand that you have said that they will create a million new jobs, but if we know this data, we know that this one million new jobs have not been created in Hungary, but in Hungary, but not by you, and I understand why you do not want this to be known to as many people as possible. I also don't understand why he boasts about how many EU workers come into Hungary, why I don't ask for this. I don't think there's that much coming. Obviously, there are some who are coming, but that there would be so much coming, for example, from Slovakia or Romania, where wages are already 15-20 percent higher than we do, I do not think so. Finally, to his remark that I quote the Prime Minister wrongly that he did not say that there was no corruption. Zero tolerance is indeed for corruption. It is not true either, because it was confirmed at Flórian Farkas, and you acknowledged that the money was stolen, and that it is still quite tolerant; on the other hand, the Prime Minister said, and I quote and quote precisely: "The opposition is blaming corruption in Hungary today. That's a lie. So if the Prime Minister is lying, then the Statistical Office can lie, too, and that's bad enough. Thank you very much.
u2016-11-23-86	Thank you very much, Congressman. Secretary of State Nándor Csepreghy!
u2016-11-23-87	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Allow me, Congressman, to say two things. On the one hand, if you want to attack the calculation methodologies introduced by Eurostat in the European Union in virtually all Member States, you are sitting in the wrong place, then go to Brussels and argue with Eurostat. The other question I have already brought to your attention, but I see that this has not been enough, but I will look for a textbook presenting fundamental rights and presenting a democratic state arrangement for you. You regularly confuse legislation, the responsibilities of government, and the administration of justice. So the fact that there is a case on which the government has also found irregularities and has demanded money back, and in parallel there is a criminal case, there is no place for the government. That's a different model of state settlement, Congressman. Maybe it's in your dreams, where the government has an influence on any investigative authority or judicial decision. I would like to draw the Member's attention to the fact that you may not have been informed, but here in 89-90 there was a change of regime in Hungary, and then the system that you are crying back here has ceased to exist, I see. So the government has no opportunity - and it is right - to interfere in any police procedure, nor will it in the future. The government has so much duty in this case that if there is any kind of case at the police investigation stage, it will assist the investigating authority in providing all the information to the investigating authority. And that is the case, Congressman, even if you acknowledge that, and even if you don't. Thank you very much, Mr. President, for your patience.
u2016-11-23-88	Thank you very much. I hate to tell you to clean up, Mr. Secretary. I think you need to change your style. You can't use that style against the congressman. Mr Nándor Gúr is now coming to a proper speech. [[Nándor Csepreghy, bowing his head:]]
u2016-11-23-89	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I'm trying to comply with the presidential warning that affected the Secretary of State. [[Nándor Csepreghy: It didn't apply to you.]] And to speak in such a way as not to violate the House's ethical expectations. Mr. Secretary. I'll pick up where I left off. I continue there because I see that this question has not touched him, or that if he has touched him, he has not been able to give a correct answer, nor has he attempted to answer the question with regard to the public workers. So, you know, basically, there's a problem, Mr. Secretary, that you think something about the world, and based on your worldview, you're trying to do everything that's gonna be given as a catch-up, revealing statistical background, to put it in the battle order, so that I can say your word. It wouldn't be a problem, it's more wrong to translate on the story; to translate on the story, and to actually make an expectation, whether spoken or unspoken, that there should be numbers, but there shouldn't be any substance light behind the numbers. You know, you feel the difference, don't you? In statistics, there is much to say through numbers, and many things can be denied if they are not broken down. I'll give you some examples - or, well, not just for you, but for yourself. And the reason I'm saying this is because I think we're living in a time when people are, in many respects, considered to be the subject of statistics, not dealing with or solving a multitude of cases involving them. Here, my fellow Members have already mentioned as an example the issue of employment and unemployment. I'm not going too far because we're gonna have a debate this afternoon, and I'm gonna open it up there in more detail, but to give you a chance and opportunity to join this topic, if you don't allow me this afternoon, I'll tell you a few things. I'm asking you to start disproved. Start disproved, okay? ? I am asking you to start disproved because it will help us to understand each other and, mutually, to go in a direction that is in the interest of people who are or are not working in the country who are not able to work. You are happy to use it, you like to say what is happening in the world of work, in employment policy between 2010 and 16. They're happy to use it because they can put numbers on the table, make them appear as if... It's like there are changes in the country that are absolutely positive. I mean employment data, basically. You are less inclined to use what happened before 2010, in 2008, not in Hungary, but in the world in general. The global financial and economic crisis, which has implications, which obviously bring about by 2009-10 changes in statistical data in the labour market that are not positive, but negative, but which tends to use it with preference, which shows a positive shift. [[12.10]] Now a little bit more detail; I'll say three or four things that should be researched and processed in substance. Employment data has already been included here today, including the public. Yes, a significant proportion of the public workers are actually engaged in work, of course, I mentioned earlier that they were humiliated by you, and quoted in quotes, for less money than in 2010. You know, the ominous is 47,000, today 52,000 net employment wages. He also knows what kind of social services they run. One that sought to kick everyone out of the supply systems as far as possible. Before that, let's say, it was a 9-month-long job search grant that was available, today it is 3 months. You also probably know, but if you don't, I'll help you make today's average position time much bigger. Half the unemployed were stuck in the system 18 months ago. For someone to be able to base a fresh start, you know very well, three months is not enough. But they don't want to move from this time frame. You know that the existence of public workers in employment statistics is, in a sense, a sham, because you know that in the world of work, it is the activity of value creation, yield production, which is actually a tangible job. That's what happens in public employment. It commends mayors and experts who work a lot in the background to do so. Yeah. It happens. But I'm sure you remember Gyöngyfa, I could tell you other cases where, if I remember correctly, the cleaning of a 360-metre-long moat took place for three months with the participation of perhaps 16 people at this rate of 6-8-10 centimeters a day. Do you consider this work? Or he considers that people are there in a compulsive way, because they themselves know that they will not be able to perform other meaningful activities if they perform this task, so they do their job with this intensity. Well, these people are all in employment statistics as working people. Is that okay? About 150,000 - of course, the system is pulsating - there are times when employment statistics have increased their presence by more than six years ago. There's another item. As a result of your blessed activities, which should have been done in 2011, 2012 to raise wages, you know, as we say, yesterday a wage agreement was made as a lollipop a year before the election, it should have been done in 2011-12 so that half a million, 600 thousand people, 75-80 percent of whom are made up of young people, are not made up of under 40. [[Happy István's intervention.]] Between 75 and 80 percent of people under the age of 40 are made up and trained. You know, that's why there's a shortage of workers today. No, but a significant proportion of these people are obviously recorded in Hungarian statistics, taking into account ILO and other rules, as if they were working at home. In numbers, it seems, and in reality, they do not do their work at home, but as a result of the blessing of your work in quotes outside the border. Yet they appear in domestic statistics, as if they were working at home. Don't you feel that lighting numbers is worth doing, in substance? To show us a fairer, fairer view? But I'll tell you a third, for example, there's the issue of student employment. Before 2010, students did not appear in labour statistics as employees. You know, on an annual basis, about 180 to 200 thousand people - again, the system is pulsating, obviously not always the same - are affected. These young people are now appearing in employment statistics. If you just put these three numbers side by side, behind which there are people, you can talk about approximately 150 to 200 000 surplus in public employment; about 130 to 140 thousand people are the surplus that is shown in relation to the state before 2010; I mentioned the 180 to 200 thousand people in terms of student employment. There are more than half a million people who have not been involved, let's say, six years ago in labour statistics, and now they're there. Well, that's easy to throw with numbers. 600,000 more people work in Hungary? Anyway, let's be more solid about this. The average employment data for the closed year 2009 and 2015 are worth looking at - well, that's not quite it. I don't even want to talk about what I think is half the right thing, by the way, if the number of people working part-time increases, but not if the 8:00 is a 4-hour part-time job. The number of part-time employees has increased by 60-80 thousand, but my biggest problem is there when they say that the number of people employed in the economy has increased by four hundred or thousands. Maybe. Out of the country. By working abroad abroad, but not at home, unfortunately. Or, if it has grown, why not take into account, in addition, how much it has decreased in parallel, and then we can clearly see that you have done nothing in terms of one million new jobs in the economy, in terms of jobs producing tax forints, in terms of productive jobs in recent years. So, what I'm trying to say is it's not enough to throw numbers at you. No, it's not enough to throw numbers, it's also necessary to do the content behind the numbers. And frankly, in this respect, I would expect much more from the Statistical Office to do it thoroughly. Of course, I understand that if you can't, because today there's a urizing Fidesz elite, a power that doesn't serve his interests, and it does express direct or indirect warnings. In the same way that this could be felt in terms of, for example, the minimum of living. That KSH has been doing the minimum of living for decades, and then, interestingly, here in recent years, it has been able to drop it, let it go, I suppose, not randomly. So, that's a problem, that's a problem, in my opinion. The system should not be based on ultimatums, it should not be based on expectations, but rather on independence. But if you've been pinned down, if you've appointed your number one man? -, assigning someone, someone else's hands, is centered in the hands of the Prime Minister? If it all depends on how the eyes of the great leader shine on that day? I'm sorry, how do you expect independent operation... [[Happy István: You're talking about communism, where you were in charge. Interviews from the ranks of the MSZP.]] To create an independent operation? Happy fellow Member, you should have learned by now when I told the minister of Lazarus that it is worth looking at in his own benches, because there you will find the people you are talking about, not in the socialist party benches. [[Happy István: You are your driver.]] [[12.20]] And two more things at the end. One question, Mr. Secretary. Why is it in the time frame of the appointment that you think that you should appoint the head of the office for seven years? Why? What's the reason? I think it's been six years, now seven years. Why? To have an office, to appoint heads of authority, or to address such a time period, I understand. But if it's six, why does it have to be seven? If it's nine, why can't it be three or not three, but five? So on that basis, anything can be done at any time. In addition to the question, my last sentence is when the guarantees that base the actual, real, independent operation of the KSH, the statistics will be laid down. Thank you very much.
u2016-11-23-90	Thank you very much, Mr. Notary. I'll ask you to sit next to me. I would be delighted if you could fill the notary seat, because you've already had a two-minute speech and a proper speech, and you should be doing your job here. Mr Zsolt Egyed will speak again.
u2016-11-23-91	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, You wrongfully accused me of insulting the headmistress and not believing her. I'd like to make it clear that I believe the principal, who I don't believe, are you, because you can turn any statistics into a success propaganda, which may not be the taste of your mouth, and you simply don't talk about it. I can't go without saying that you said that we practically despise community service workers. Dear Secretary of State, Nándor Gúr told me, and as a man living in a rural environment, I see those people every day, and I live among them, who bring 52,000 forints home, and that is why some people do hard physical work. Based on these aspects, I can say that it is you who despise these people because you think that we are giving them so much that they do not starve to death, but in statistics it is good that they are not unemployed, but they are working. Dear Secretary of State, It doesn't matter how much these people work for. There are virtually people in a village in North-East Hungary now that they want to borrow firewood from each other until they get some money and in the store in virtually a lot of villages, and I think that's true all over North-Hungary that everyone buys credit after, say, 10 because they can't pay a kilo of bread. Of course, according to your values, these are happy working people, but unfortunately, this is not the reality. I would like to respond to one more suggestion that you have just addressed to me in relation to inflation. I believe that there are guidelines for this, but I would like to emphasise once again that people, the average person, the working person, are not interested in buying a plasma TV at a cheaper price than 30,000 forints or perhaps a million for the Mercedes, but they are interested in the daily items they buy every day in the store. If you were brave and had the financial resources, all the opportunities, you would also have a statistic, which I am, for example, and I think many of my fellow Members would be extremely interested in how the prices of the articles that you buy every year, say, in a grocery store, in a clothing store, in a bookstore, in a doll shop, and in shops like this, which people buy on a daily basis. Believe me, Secretary of State, this may be completely natural in your circle, but the average Hungarian person still doesn't care if he can buy Mercedes or a luxury car at a cheaper price, but is interested in what he will eat tomorrow. Unfortunately, this Hungarian reality right now, that's what concerns people. I would very much like to see you look at a statistic that examines this issue, but I can see that you have the answer in advance, and I know that these data would be very sad, because it would not show anything other than the fact that the price of basic foods and basic daily products increases consistently from month to month, year to year, and the proportion of people's livelihood and salary that can be spent proportionately from month to month is less. Szilárd Németh is not here right now, but believe me, even their huge rezsi fight couldn't put the point on the i, because there is a reference here, but, as I said before, there is life in Hungary, a large part of the Hungarian people live in the countryside, for example, a very significant part of the Hungarian people still shoot with wood, and the price of the firewood, if nothing else is examined, is growing by thousands to two thousand forints per year. Technically, they feel so much about the rent you've been doing for years, that there are people on TV who talk about it, but I, in addition to trying to get warmer, have less and less money for food. So this Hungarian reality, Mr State Secretary, should also be discussed. Thank you. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2016-11-23-92	Thank you very much, Congressman. Nándor Csepreghy is next. Here you go.
u2016-11-23-93	Mr President, Thank you very much for the opportunity to speak; I try not to fall into the previous mistake again. I would like to add two amendments to the notary. On the one hand, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the methodology behind the statistical data published by the Statistical Office is also public, which is precisely what gives us the opportunity to conduct these debates. If you'll allow me, I wouldn't be answering labour market questions right now, I'll be here in the afternoon debate, and I'll have a chance there. I also enjoyed asking about the length of the presidential mandate. Within the European Union, EU Member States operate between five and eight years... [[Nándor Gúr: Isn't the six among them?]] But the six are among them, and the seven are among them, so then, I think the solution is one in this regard. I would like to thank the Member, on the one hand, for finally getting to the point where Jobbik recognises that public employment is a work and must be included in the debate. I still agree with you in the debate that this money is little and I dare say that I think it is very difficult to make a living with this money, if it is possible to make a living at all, I want to say this too. However, I would like to make it clear that, if I have seen it right, there is no debate here about whether these people are employed or not, there is a wage dispute here, but I do not think that this is a wage dispute that needs to be carried out when the statistical law is amended. The reduction of the overhead, for example, the reduction of the VAT on meat, was all a measure that did help these people, I think, a great deal, for those who heat with wood, and for those who do not. I think that the government's measures over the past period have all provided significant help to families who really need help, and we are glad that there are fewer and more people out of this category. Thank you, Mr. President.
u2016-11-23-94	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Mr. Nándor Gúr, Getting scolded from the President's stand without the president's permission is particularly house-breaking. The notary shall speak only if the president, the chairman, gives the floor. I'm asking you to remember this here, or else I'm going to object to us ever sitting up here together. Thank you. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties. Agnes Kunhalmi: How strict!]] Mr Gergely Bárándy will speak again. Here you go.
u2016-11-23-95	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. The peculiarity of the parliamentary genre, of course, is that sometimes one can speak significantly later than one would otherwise like to respond. I thank the Secretary of State, and I am pleased that, unlike most of his colleagues, he is taking part in the parliamentary debate and does not divide the opposition in the closing words, but is indeed open to the debate, and I appreciate that. I also appreciate that, Mr Secretary of State, and this is an indication of your gentlemanship, that you have defended the President of the Statistical Office, who is obviously unable to speak in this parliamentary debate on the basis of house rules. However, I think you're wrong. You are wrong, because if someone signs up, Mr State Secretary and Madam President, to serve Viktor Orbán's system in a servile manner, then it will certainly be a criticism by the opposition, and this criticism must be accepted and tolerated. And I am convinced that this is how the Statistical Office and its management operate today. I would like to quote a press product on the question of how objective the operation is, how much doubt is there that the President is objectively defending his right. Of course, I cannot verify the truth of this, whether it was or not, in any case the quote is certain. The Ethical Board of the Hungarian Statistical Society condemned the regent president of the Central Statistical Office, Gabriella Vukovich, because the president reached a professional conference in November last year by inviting Tamás Mellár, who was the former president of the KSH, not during our era, but below yours, to stand on the podium as a condition for the financial support of the HCSO. Is that objectivity? He's committed an ethical misdemeanor. Once again, I would like to read a quote: by abusing his power, he intervened in the operation of a civil society, the Hungarian Statistical Society. I don't even want to comment on that. I think these lines speak for themselves. [[12.30]] As far as the methodology or methods of the Statistical Office is concerned, I am talking about either the possible false communication or manipulation of statistics, let me say that it is more about the latter, rather than the latter, which is as bad as when you forge statistics, there is no difference in the point: they deceive people, they claim that this is reality, although reality is not. It doesn't matter if it's based on forged statistics or manipulated statistics. All research - and I think Mr Secretary of State has no discussion between us - is based on the methodology. I don't know anything about statistics, but I've been doing research, not statistical. You always start by doing a more serious research by reporting on the methodology. Indeed, the research methodology of the HCSO is public, only while, in the case of a scientific treatise, who is interested in the subject in general, the way, opportunity and reality - and I would like to stress this very much - have to read the methodology, this reality is largely lacking in the case of statistical communications. I'd like to ask you: how many people do you think, Mr. Secretary, are reading public methodological data? And how many people listen to their triumphal reports as a result of manipulated statistics? It makes the press sound, I mean, your winning reports based on statistical data. Obviously, a fraction of people, a small part that is almost non-measurable by statistical methods, will read the methodology and will be able to interpret the methodology. And I think that this is important. And speaking of Tamás Mellár, or speaking of it at today's session, I would also like to quote him on the basis of a newspaper article; he is saying the same thing that I am saying: the data are obviously real, but the question is what methodology they are born with. Allow me to quote perhaps two or three more sentences from him; this issue was raised in the context of the debate on poverty. Tamás Mellar says: What can we consider a poverty threshold? What is included in the minimum consumer basket? KSH has stopped calculating the minimum living and is using a new method of measuring the standard of living. This is not a problem in itself, but what has risen or decreased, we could get a real picture if we used the new calculation to produce statistics back a few years and compare them with the November data. Then we'll find out if the number of poor people has decreased or how much. Ladies and gentlemen, That is why politics will simplify these figures, and anyone who understands this profession - and I do not question the competence of the President of the Statistical Office for a moment - can shape these figures in such a way that, although not covering reality, they can be explained. This manipulation, my fellow Members, and I condemn it, and I read it as a criticism on the head of the head of the Statistical Office. Secondly, I do not want to go further than Mr. State Secretary referring to János Veres. It's not right to hide the data. If he did this, he did it wrong. You didn't do it right. But with that in mind, like in high school, it's okay what I did because Pistike did the same thing, that's not good. I think that if I have to, I admit that this is a problem, but that does not justify that it is not possible to make it a matter of criticism if someone is manipulating me. And then we agree, then there's no debate between us, and we can move past that. On the other hand, as regards the public law system: I maintain, Mr State Secretary, that if a country's public law system has been transformed in such a way that it is possible - and this is the case today - to control everything by the will of one person and not by its virtually serious limitations, then it is a pity to create such detailed rules, which may otherwise be capable of ensuring greater independence of the Statistical Office under normal state conditions. But today, the legal environment is such that it is completely unnecessary to make such rules, and nothing is going to get away with it. Believe me, Mr Secretary of State - you may believe me - I have read books on such public-law systems, and what is more, I have written this, for example, in one of them I have 550 pages of arguments and proof of how the public-law system was broken down in Hungary. I always say that I would be very happy to see someone from the government side, whether politically or scientifically, contradict the data and facts contained in it or even the thought process. This came out three years ago, and I've never read a rebuttal like this before, and it'd be nice to see if I'm wrong, maybe it's a little bit better than what I think it is. But one thing is certain: I wrote it on the basis of data, and I concluded on the basis of data that the system of brakes and counterweights has been incredibly weakened here, that the idea of the rule of law is a thing of the past, and in this system - I repeat once again - it is completely unnecessary to put forward such laws. And finally, Mr Secretary of State, you probably missed it; it is not what I am about to say now that I have been dealing with this issue for years - which concerns the state system and the state order - and I would be interested in the quotes from myself where I would have proposed to take over the US system at any time. I think that many things can be taken over from the United States; there are good things; I would be very sad if one of them had to implement their state order here in Hungary, even because it is an Anglo-Saxon legal system, and I am a believer in the continental legal system, so, for example, comparing terms of office with an Anglo-Saxon legal system and a European continental legal system in Central Europe is unnecessary, because it is based on a completely different approach and a completely different legal environment and structure. The question of whether there are periods of parliamentary term: there are, there have been, and what is more, what I have condemned, that you have raised them, they were originally, because they were four years of parliamentary term, for example, the President of the OBH, the Attorney General, had a six-year term, a one-and-a-half parliamentary term, but the President of the SAO had a much longer term, and the Constitutional Judges had nine years, which means more than two parliamentary periods. The only problem is that 9 wasn't enough, it had to be raised to 12, 6 wasn't enough, it had to be raised to 9, now 6 isn't enough, it has to be raised to 7. This is the tendency that is wrong. By the way, the fact that there are periods of office that go through cycles is that. And the other thing is wrong, if we are to say, that you were least concerned that there were such periods of office, because both the mandate of the President of the Supreme Court and the mandate of the Data Protection Commissioner and the mandate of the members of the National Election Committee were terminated before the term expired. [[12.40]] Some of them, who have also received satisfaction in the proceedings before the large Chamber in Strasbourg and have found that the infringement has been committed in Strasbourg. So what I can tell you is that when you talk about these numbers, you definitely expect a certain restraint, and I don't mean you, Mr. Secretary, because that's the kind of style you normally talk about. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2016-11-23-96	Thank you very much, Congressman. I would like to ask my fellow Members if someone is applying for a two-minute speech. [[No signal.]] No. Then we can start a new circle. Mr Nándor Gúr, the notary of the Parliament, will take the floor once again. Here you go.
u2016-11-23-97	Thank you very much, Mr. President. On the basis of your awareness-raising thoughts, I asked for the floor not to make it easier for the Secretary of State to reply. Then it could have been arranged, but if the president's warning was so, then, Mr. Secretary, I'll explain the story a little more.
u2016-11-23-98	Mr. Messenger! I ask you to be very careful about the criticism of the President-in-Office because you can only do so in the form of a point of order, and you, as a notary, should know this in particular. Thank you very much. Here you go.
u2016-11-23-99	I did not criticize the President, I outlined the situation, and I say that I must explain to the Secretary of State what I said in one word or two. I would refrain from criticism. [[Interventions from the benches of the governing parties, among others: Very good!]] Mr. Secretary. The point of the matter, for which I asked for a new voice, was one part of it brought up by my fellow Member, Barándy. This is about that if any new method, if any new method is invented for anything, anything fittingly, the minimum of living was calculated here on the floor, then it is obviously correct that, if, say, the reimbursements occur for many years, even for government cycles. Because looking at something different from today, tomorrow, we look at it differently and put it within a different regulatory framework, obviously distorting it; distorting the image of the system. In my opinion, this is something you prefer to use. This is what the minimum of existence is about, and the calculation of the new minimum of existence, for which it is clearly intended to avoid painting a better picture of the real situation in terms of poverty, in line with your political goals, than it was based on a previous method of calculation. Either the calculation should be continued on the basis of a long-term method developed over many decades, or if it is changed, it should be shown how and how it looked on the basis of this model for many decades. That would be fair. The way you do it today, you do it, and it's my judgment that it's incorrect. That should change. The other thing about the appointment is that you say that this period of time between the European Union's ties is basically 5-8 years. It's been six years for us, and now they want to change it to seven years. And I said, "Why, wasn't 6 one of them?" Says you, 7 is among them. Yeah, they're both true; but if the six are among them, then why do you have to change to 7? There's a reason for that. Not only is it driven by incoherence, it guides you or you in this regard. Then I'd like to know the reason. Why? If five to eight fell into six, then why? 'Cause if it was 7-8, I get it, but if 5-8 falls between 6, then why 7? Some reason, something tangible, something necessary, anything. The other thing I would like to draw your attention to with great respect: what I would really like to ask is that, if possible, the call for statistics to come to life, not to bring them back to life in line with their political goals. I know it's not manual, I know it. But don't give direct signals that make it clear how the Statistical Office, which should function as an independent, should serve you, because they are losing their independence and, in this sense, their credibility. And you are really using the processed data not only for your political purposes, but also for how and how it can be built to benefit people. It doesn't serve as the basis for creating a debauchery, no! I'll put that in quotes. Do not create the possibility of abuse in this sense. Or do not strengthen the thinking about what is not to be shown or shown, the story of silence. Do you understand? Not just numbers, which we have just discussed, but also the content behind the numbers, because then it can show the reality, the true picture. You know, if we were to ask ourselves today what they show and what they don't show us, then what they don't show us, then there's a lot of things that could be lined up in the frame of the article, which, if shown, would bring us much closer to creating a real picture, but that would require real, real independence. Obviously, this requires impartiality and much more. Therefore, it is important - I will return again, with one thought - to operate on the basis of long-term standards. It is therefore important to take stock of the same measurement methods over transparent, cycle-long periods and not to change according to political interests. And in the end, I'd like to come back to one more thing, and that's again the job of the public. Mr. Secretary. Anyone who can carry out activities combined with value creation, yield and surplus production within the framework of public employment is, of course, a man who works according to your values and my values. However, in people who are put in a position, and unfortunately, there are such things that, as I have said, only their own self-esteem is being trampled on by themselves, because they would be able to do much more, but the possibility of that is not given to them, this question is now raised differently. And once again, don't try to show or set up a situation in which you or any other member of the government don't respect or value the public. We appreciate and respect it just because, unfortunately, in Hungary, there are many small settlements, especially where we live, in North and North-East Hungary, but there are also others, in South-Hungary, there are very many people who have no other options. The person who gives them less money than they received six years ago does not appreciate the public workers who put them in the position of mauling themselves because they could do more, but the opportunity is not given to them. Rather, they should be able to engage as soon as possible in the primary labour market, within the framework of the economic sphere. Many of them would still be able to do so today. [[12.50]] Because they've become public employees because they're in a life situation that doesn't really satisfy their needs. So there is a lot of work to be done in this regard. But for those six or seven years, I would expect a sensible answer, Mr. Secretary. Thank you in advance. Mr. President, thank you.
u2016-11-23-100	Thank you very much, Congressman. I would like to ask my fellow Members if anyone else would like to speak in the debate. [[There's no candidate.]] I don't see any contact. The general debate is closed. I will ask Mr Nándor Csepreghy, State Secretary, if he wishes to respond to what was said in the debate. [[Nándor Csepreghy: Yes.]] Yes, he does. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2016-11-23-101	Mr. President. Just two short sentences, I would not like to repeat what has been said. The issue raised by Congressman Bárándy has also been brought before the International Statistical Ethics Board, which has given the truth to the President. That's what I'd like to say for the record. I would like to respond to Mr Gúr's point on labour market issues so that the role of public workers can be debated, but I would like to draw his attention to the fact that two thirds of the new jobs that have been created since 2010 have been created in the primary labour market. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2016-11-23-102	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, The amendments may be submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. Next up is the 2014 LXXVI on scientific research, development and innovation. General discussion of the bill amending the law until closure. Government referral T/12928. It is available to all of them on the Parliament's IT network. First, I give the floor to Mr Nándor Csepreghy, Secretary of State of the Prime Minister's Office, rapporteur of the item on the agenda, in a 30-minute time frame. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2016-11-23-103	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear Parliament, The Parliament's decision on 25 November 2014 to adopt the Scientific Research, Development and Innovation Act can be interpreted as a symbolic decision in the process of renewing the institutional regulatory and financing framework for research, development and innovation in Hungary. The purpose of the R &amp; D and Innovation Act was to ensure uniform regulation at the legal level in order to ensure the efficient use of R &amp; D and innovation resources, and to establish the autonomy of the basic scientific research law, and to create an innovation ecosystem in Hungary to ensure the competitiveness of the Hungarian economy and Hungarian society and its ability to generate income for the future, in order to make an effective contribution to sustainable social and economic development, by which we mean creating jobs and supporting economic growth. Dear Parliament, The National Research, Development and Innovation Office, established by the R &amp; D and Innovation Act, started its operations on 1 January 2015 to implement the scientific policy objectives clearly defined in line with clear principles and values in 2014. It was established as a successor to the National Science Fund Office, the National Innovation Office and the former Research and Technology Innovation Fund. With the creation of the R &amp; D and Innovation Act, the government carries out its tasks of public support for R &amp; D and innovation through the National Research, Development and Innovation Office. This ensures the supervision of R &amp; D and innovation based on uniform case-law and the efficient use of available domestic and EU resources for R &amp; D and innovation. Following the establishment of the National Research, Development and Innovation Office on 1 January 2015, the necessary internal rules were established. We are talking about rules establishing a system for the performance of uniform professional and functional tasks. A transparent and efficient system of management of institutional and separate public funds has been established and the available human resources taken over from the predecessor institutions have also been assessed. Scientific bodies under the Research, Development and Innovation Act, the colleges of specialities, the Innovation Panel and the expert groups have started to operate. The database of experts, including international experts, established by the National Research, Development and Innovation Office, can be considered as a key achievement. Almost 15 thousand theoretical and practical experts registered in the expert database are active and responsible contributors to evaluation processes as professional evaluators. If the professional quality, novelty content, the possibility of economic utilisation and the justification for the amount of aid applied for should be considered as a priority, the Office may rely on an expert base which, I believe, is capable of making decisions that are indisputable. Finally, the National Research, Development and Innovation Office's arrangements for evaluating applications from GINOP and VEKOP, i.e. the economic development and competitive Central Hungary region, were established. By the end of 2016, more than HUF 200 billion of R &amp; D and innovation funds were decided and contracts started and payments subsequently started. All actors in the sphere, companies, universities and research institutes have received unprecedented development resources. Honourable Members, Ladies and Gentlemen, The proposed amendment to Parliament will be made for two reasons. On the one hand, during nearly two years of the operation of the National Research, Development and Innovation Office, the cornerstones of the implementation of the R &amp; D and innovation strategy and the management of public-funded proposals have also been assessed from the organizational management and enforcement side. On the basis of a review of the current law, it can be concluded that there is no need to make amendments to its substantive rules. The objectives set out in the Act are implemented in order to ensure that the public tasks set out for the National Research, Development and Innovation Office are performed even more effectively, and the small and basically technical amendments are therefore considered justified by the Government. The bill therefore provides for the establishment of an annual programme strategy in accordance with the rules of annual budgetary planning and commitment. The adoption by the government of the annual programme strategy is necessary for the conclusion of grant contracts. However, calls for proposals for grants financed by the National Research, Development and Innovation Fund may be published at the beginning of the year on the basis of the budget law adopted for the reference year. This will make the system of tendering and funding more systematic and proportionate. The amendment introduces the international membership fee payment obligations, which have been recognised in the R &amp; D and Innovation Act, but which have already been terminated, while at the same time giving us the opportunity, if justified by an international obligation, to comply with the public tasks of the National Research, Development and Innovation Office as laid down in the Act, according to the Government's decision, with the national research, development and innovation fund. Finally, in this context, the proposal allows international membership fees to be financed through the transfer of funds to the chapter in accordance with the relevant public finance legislation. In the light of the development policy database and information system, the deadline for the establishment of a single IT tender system for the National Research, Development and Innovation Office is set. Another amendment to the bill concerns the R &amp; D project certification procedures governed by the R &amp; D and Innovation Act, which fall within the competence of the National Intellectual Property Office. The amending proposal sets out the substantive, legal and procedural rules of the project group certification procedure, and the current R &amp; D certification procedure makes it clear that in the support scheme, the certification decision of the National Intellectual Property Office may be used if the caller allows it to do so. Dear Parliament, The Act on Scientific Research, Development and Innovation has proven that there is a will, there is also the possibility to renew institutional regulation and financing framework for Hungarian R &amp; D and innovation. I therefore ask the Parliament to continue to support the competitiveness of the Hungarian economy, the implementation of the R &amp; D and innovation policy programme, which effectively contributes to sustainable economic and social development, by adopting the proposal. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of Fidesz.]]
u2016-11-23-104	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. The main speaker's speeches will now take place within a 15-15-minute time frame. I give the floor first from the Fidesz Group to Mr Mihály Witzmann. Here you go, Congressman. [[13.00]]
u2016-11-23-105	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, Hungary's Fundamental Law clearly states that the state is not entitled to decide on scientific truth, and that science's researchers are only entitled to evaluate scientific research. Subject to the relevant provisions of the Fundamental Law, the standards of international scientific evaluation systems, the evaluation of the Hungarian Academy of Sciences and higher education institutions, the National Assembly established the 2014 LXXVI on scientific research, development and innovation. By adopting a law, the National Research, Development and Innovation Fund, in short the NKFI and the peer evaluation system in place. The amendment to the Scientific Research, Development and Innovation Act in question has already been planned in the Government's work plan adopted for the second half of 2016 as a number of clarifications, changes and changes have been made since the adoption of the legislation in 2014 which the amending proposal before us intends to comply with. The current amendment to the RDI Act will allow, among other things, the so-called group project rating process initiated by the National Intellectual Property Office. Based on the new type of procedure, the applicant may apply for a classification of projects or parts of projects carried out in a tax year and identified in the application, which may be used for the validation of tax and contribution reductions related to research and development activities, which shall be considered as one unit for the purposes of certification. In addition, the amendment was amended by the aforementioned RDI Act 36 and 40. The project group certification procedure and the substantive rules of procedure are also laid down under the provisions of Article 5 of this Regulation. The advantage of the project group certification process is that the administrative burden of stakeholders can be reduced by introducing it, as well as the costs associated with the procedure. It is also important to point out that, according to previous decisions, Hungary became a full member of the so-called ESA, known as the European Space Agency in 2015, so that our duty to pay membership in the so-called cooperation phase prior to full status has been lifted. The amending proposal also contains an update of this fact. Since the National Research, Development and Innovation Fund is a separate State Fund for State aid to R &amp; D and innovation and is intended solely for this purpose under the Public Finance Act, the amendment in question affects, of course, the Public Finance Act. These amendments and clarifications are also reflected in the presentation. Ladies and gentlemen, I believe that the proposal is aimed at performing a more effective public task, which is already existing and can safely be said to be of great strategic importance. This is the public task concerned, namely R &amp; D itself, public support for innovation and the qualification of R &amp; D activities. We often say that the person who invests in knowledge builds the future. Here I would like to join Mr Secretary of State's previous words that this is obviously reflected in the country's economic performance, economic development, the functioning of businesses, the development of human resources and the continued improvement of the country's indicators. That is why I ask this House and my honourable Members to support the adoption of the bill amendment with their votes. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2016-11-23-106	Thank you very much, Congressman. The lead speaker of the MSZP Group is Ms Ágnes Kunhalmi. Here you go, Congresswoman.
u2016-11-23-107	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, The fourth industrial revolution is currently taking place in the world. It's not a loud process, it's not as spectacular as the invention of a steam engine, but it's going to change our world at least as much. What we used to think was impossible or a distant future is right in front of us. For example, in Russia, a runaway robot caused a traffic accident before last year. The front page of one of the largest Hungarian news portals was also about how a company's self-driving car works in traffic and in operation. In fact, six months ago, there was a video of a self - driving car driving down the Megyeri Bridge. There is no question today that in the very near future, those countries that can create and improve jobs with high added value will be successful. Not just to build infrastructure, not to announce that we are building a test track, but to give people knowledge, new knowledge, so that they can experiment, build, make mistakes, start over and develop. I need a good education. Today we politicians cannot tell us what jobs will be in 20 or 30 years, but we can tell you that if people's skills improve, they will also be able to adapt to change. We need real innovation and competitive projects at international level. R &amp; D and innovation are not, in themselves, one of many areas in which we need to develop. It is not just a policy area at the bottom of government, but a challenge, if you will, to the whole government. We can't decide if this compulsion exists. We cannot vote here in Parliament to stop development at the border, so that the world does not develop a little bit now, while we Hungarians are making our catch-up. No way. One thing we can do: grow up to the task and make ourselves fit for the future. This depends on the country's success in the 21st century. In the century, the future of Hungarians depends on it, and our success depends on it. Well, compared to that, Fidesz is an alarmingly small and unfortunately ill-advised case. This government has spent the past year and a half on how to build a hate campaign as harsh as possible, how to create an enemy, how to bring Hungarians into fear and anxiety with a kind of moral panic. Fellow Members! Have you ever seen a dreaded person develop and learn effectively? They couldn't see me. They couldn't see me, because no one could grow anxiously. Anxiety, fear kills knowledge, kills the ability to acquire knowledge, and kills our future. Somewhere, of course, it makes sense why you're all so far behind. Let me bring you a quote from April 26, 2016. The world of innovation and start-ups is a good thing, because maybe it turns out that what we didn't know was what we knew. But it's not the future. Well, that's what Prime Minister Viktor Orbán said, whom quite a few in your benches view as some sort of fortune-telling oracle. But how can we look at his ability to see the future, how can we look at a person who believes that development and innovation are not so important, instead we should focus on mechanical production? In addition, the Prime Minister said this when robots are already taking control of many factories in Western Europe and indeed in Hungary. World brands reinstall production from the Far East, for example, to Germany, the United States, because instead of workers, robots work on products. Again, I just have to say that we cannot decide, we cannot vote on whether this process is good or bad. That's just the reality. This is something the Hungarians and the Hungarian government have to face. The world runs by us while we in Hungary destroy education and seek scapegoats for our own government helplessness. This is the real damage to the nation, in my opinion. We in the MSZP believe that Hungary will not be, that in the long term Europe will not be a assembly plant, because in this we will simply not be able to overcome either China or robotisation. For Hungarians to live a normal life, we need a high level of knowledge, innovation, real and internationally competitive projects Well, that doesn't look good on us. One of the main objectives of the Innovation Act was to increase our competitiveness in 2014. At the time of the creation of the law, Hungary was ranked 60th on the World Economic Forum's list of competitiveness in 138 countries. We dropped three places last year, six more for today. Today we're 69th. There is no other country in the world that would have fallen six places in a year. This is a direct consequence of the fact that the Fidesz government does not actually understand innovation and, in my opinion, is even afraid of it. The innovation system that existed 10 years ago has now completely collapsed. The National Research, Development and Innovation Office is a planning office that wants to develop development with central control, without any kind of academic independence and autonomy. [[13.10]] All I have to say to you is that Albert Einstein did not discover the theory of general relativity by order of an official. Along this line, let us interpret the meaning of such an office. In particular, corporate research and development has completely deteriorated for small and medium-sized enterprises. Fidesz used a wheelbarrow to get the money out of college. This has resulted in the deterioration of university research and development. Young talents today go abroad as a result of the government's work, and the evolution of the performance of the research base is a good indicator of the dangers of this. You should see that science, research and development only works with independent, autonomous actors. We see that these concepts do not exist in the universe of Viktor Orbán, but my bad news is that they exist in reality outside, outside these walls. Fidesz chose Orbán's fantasy world instead of reality, but not by you - but by the country. But I want you to take a look at the results. It doesn't work spectacularly. It's not a result that the pockets of the fidesz oligarchs are full. The result is that István Garancsi has a few innovation billions in the pocket between the renovation of a high street stadium and a fidesz building. This process also has a name, and that name is stealing. In recent years, shipping companies, commercial companies, sly real estate owners have won close to a billion public funds for projects they have never done anything like it, and have no results at all. Do you know what they call this activity among themselves? Search! Among other things, entrepreneurs near Fidesz are talking about how many billions have been searched in recent years. Well, it's not a normal process. But here's the thing about the problems. Furthermore, the tendering system is completely opaque. We don't know what companies carry the money. Only the winning consortium leaders appear on the website of the Innovation Office, not the partners. So it's quite easy to make a few hundred million or billions disappear that go to the same group of companies. The scope of the researchers remains unchanged, the research sites will continue to be completely vulnerable, which is not only against the original EU intention, but also, in my opinion, the Hungarian national interests. This proposal is the continuation of the concentration of power, the further blowing of the water head. In the planning office called innovation, it opens even more room for personal decisions rather than professional decisions, and it regulates incredibly in detail the certification procedures that, if the Parliament accepts the amendment, the National Research, Development and Innovation Office will not be forced to take into account. That is, the fund distribution organisation will not even have to assess how useful a proposal is in terms of research and development. Well, if there's any amendment that's pointless, that's it! We believe that basic research support is also a state task, especially if there is a significant amount of EU money available, and that is the case at present. Hungary can move forward if the proposals that are viable, competitive and stand up in the national field are supported. If the government wants to create a truly effective innovation law, ask the Hungarian Academy of Sciences to develop it, start real cooperation with the professional actors, and not constantly finance research near Fidesz. We cannot support this proposal before us on the part of the MSZP, we do not give our vote to extend the gap. Thank you for your attention. Thank you, Mr. President.
u2016-11-23-108	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. The lead speaker of the Jobbik Group is Mr Tibor Bana. Here you go, Congressman.
u2016-11-23-109	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Jobbik has mixed feelings for the 2014 LXXVI on scientific research, development and innovation. a proposal to amend the law. As we did at the time, however, this was our attitude towards the bill that we ultimately supported with our vote, but we did so because we tried to show our positive attitude and appreciated that this important goal was also presented in a concrete bill in 2014. Therefore, in the case of the proposal, which entered into force in January 2015, bearing the title above, Jobbik has shown a constructive attitude, and I am now also trying to explain our position in this way in the debate, because it is an important area that has been subject to modernisation, modernisation and more attention for years. Therefore, the fact that such a motion was submitted to Parliament two years ago was certainly welcome, but my reservations were already expressed in my speech at the time, and I will also do so with regard to the amendments that were being planned. On numerous occasions, we have mentioned here in Parliament that the area of research and development is a key element of the economy that can be the engine of lasting and sustainable growth. On the other hand, we can see that the amount allocated to this area in Hungary is extremely low. The national strategy for R &amp; D and innovation "Encouraging the Future" set the goal, in line with the programme "Europe 2020" to increase R &amp; D support to 1.8 percent of GDP by 2020 and by the end of the decade. However, we still need to make serious efforts to do this. Although we managed to raise ourselves from 1.15 percent in 2010 to 1.4 percent in 2013, and we recognised and welcomed this every time, the next two years have led to a minimum but a reduction. It can therefore be seen that we are still far from the target, and, moreover, it can be said that at European Union level, we can also conclude that there are very few countries with a 3 per cent figure. Unfortunately, in the case of Hungary, it remains important to emphasise that we are far from those countries who not only pay much more attention to this, but also in practice and in decisions, that the areas of research and development and innovation are being treated as a priority and that they try to take meaningful steps to improve the economy and increase the country's competitiveness. The fact that the current R &amp; D &amp; I grants do not make real investments in many cases is also a serious problem. According to László Parragh, president of the Hungarian Chamber of Commerce and Industry, the money comes primarily to universities, university consortia and the Hungarian Academy of Sciences. I would like to note here that, of course, it is important to have substantial support for these areas, and this is an important part of the use of R &amp; D &amp; I funds, but it can be seen that in practice we often find that studies are being carried out, but actual projects are no longer being carried out. This should therefore be changed, and the government should take action in this direction. That is what I am asking of the Secretary of State to make sure that this is taken into account in the future. It is therefore important that a greater proportion of these funds are made available to companies, which are able to invest in value and job creation in this way. In particular, the Jobbik Group has also expressed on numerous occasions here in Parliament, at committee level and in other forums that it would be essential to support small and medium-sized enterprises in this way, since in this respect we are particularly behind the European and European Union average. In fact, Hungary has now had a serious opportunity, given that a much larger proportion of the EU funds available in the period 2014-2020 could be allocated to R &amp; D purposes, with a specific increase of two and a half times the amount of support available in this respect. So it is important that we take advantage of this opportunity and see the results of this Hungarians and our country. Turning to the amendments to the bill before us, I would like to point out that the majority of the amendments we are discussing are technical, so I would not want to go into them in more detail. I would just like to point out, as I have already pointed out, critical comments on which we wish to make. There are two points in the changes, honourable Members, that we think it would be worth reconsidering. One of them is 3. The amendment contained in Section 2 of the Act on the implementation of public finances reads as follows: Decree of the Government of 31 December 2005 66. In accordance with point 5 of paragraph 2 of Section 2 of this Article, the invitation to tender shall state the name and amount of the source at the disposal of the sponsor. The available resources are included in the Central Budget Act. The publication of the invitation to tender shall not constitute an undertaking except the conclusion of the grant contract, which shall take place on the basis of an approved annual programme strategy for the reference year. On the basis of the foregoing, the adoption of the programme strategy is no longer necessary for the publication of the call for proposals. [[13.20]] On this basis, it seems that the government would like to speed up the call for proposals, which we do not always consider to be a good idea. Of course, it would be important to have quick access to these funds, and really not to go on for a long time, but we believe that a more thoughtful and better decision could be made in order that if this change did not take place in this amendment, and the president of the NKFIH, if he could hold the agreed programme strategy in his hands, would certainly be able to make a more professional decision, which, unfortunately, has not been experienced in recent years. We were able to support this proposal at the time, and we gave the government a chance to prove that it would indeed happen because we hoped that they would actually make the commitments they made in this area - but unfortunately we did not see that happening. And it is worth approaching this issue either from a large company or from an SME side. On the one hand, I would also do this on the side of multinational companies, because our committee, the European Union Affairs Board, meets regularly with the representatives of the Hungarian European Business Council, members of the HEBC, who say on every occasion - and I would stress that there are serious debates between us on certain issues - that it would be necessary to create a long-term strategy, quite precisely to create a medium- and long-term strategy in Hungary, because in a predictable economic environment large companies, but also small and medium-sized companies, could function much better and more effectively, they could prepare for changes in substance than in the present Hungary, where unfortunately we can see that in many cases ad hoc legislation is being done and that these companies have to face changes during the year that are completely unexpected. But, as I pointed out, Jobbik considers it particularly important that SMEs can benefit from these resources to a sufficient extent and that this demand is formulated for them; and it can be seen from studies that, in the case of small and medium-sized enterprises, it is particularly true that if they are also engaged in innovative activities, they can increase their number of employees to a greater extent and thus contribute more to the recovery, strengthening of the Hungarian economy and improving the competitiveness of our country. So when we talk about the use of EU funds or other available R &amp; D funds, I think that this should be one of the most important and decisive aspects. My second point, which is set out in Article 10, is also part of the previous comment. In the light of the current general government legislative environment, the establishment and implementation of the NKFI Fund programme strategy can be managed and undertaken on an annual basis according to the rules of responsible budgetary management, and therefore the preparation of a long-term programme strategy is unjustified. As I have already mentioned, we have heard several times from professional and entrepreneurial circles the need for our country to establish and create an economic strategy that could, within some framework, serve as a crutch for companies about the future ideas of the government, and, as I have already mentioned, the R &amp; D &amp; I area is one of the most important elements of the modern economy, and in our accelerated world, the importance of this is growing. That is why we would consider it important to be able to exchange ideas on this issue as often as possible in the Parliament. It was a very positive development that there was a case-by-case committee here in the previous term, of which I was a member, and then I was vice-president, which dealt with this issue in particular, and, where appropriate, the re-creation of this issue may arise, but it is not necessarily necessary to have such a case-by-case committee, but to be able to talk about it here in plenary or at Commission level, to have meaningful and concrete responses from the government side, because our goal is clear: to promote Hungary's economy and to create as many valuable jobs as possible, this would be the most important for our country. And the Jobbik, when he put together his election program the last time and the times before, he kept that in mind. Therefore, medium- and long-term objectives and strategies should be developed in this area as well. And as I have already mentioned, yes, we have wanted to see it - but in the last two years things have gone in a different direction - that there are indeed professional decisions, indeed, those who deserve it, and who can contribute to the goals that have, in fact, been included in the previous bill. Because it was a very complex bill, and there were parts in it, paragraphs that were very well put together, and professionally sound, but there were also much brighter and incomprehensible parts. So we appreciate a little that if you had already touched this, it might have been worth touching those points, and it would have been worth doing something about which we made these comments at the time. Unfortunately, I therefore appreciate that Hungary and thus the government have not made the right use of the opportunities that could have contributed to strengthening innovative companies in our country. On the other hand, unfortunately, we can see that, for example, the objective of EU funds, which has been formulated, is not going to be achieved, for example, that 60% of them will go directly to economic development. A study was published in the Portfolio on this, and it was explained for a long time that even if all the resources were to reach such goals next year, we would achieve just over 50 per cent, but more likely not even 50 per cent. However, what is even more difficult - and here I would quote Professor Attila Chikán, who had a strong attachment to Fidesz - is that corruption is indeed slowing down economic growth, and if we can experience it in relation to the sources coming from the European Union, or specifically here in connection with this bill, with regard to research and development aid, so that only a small circle of oligarchs linked to Fidesz can benefit from it, then Hungary and the Hungarians will not see the results of it, but only the few people who have the right connections and are well placed in the government and the ruling parties. Jobbik therefore basically stands for this proposal so that, of course, we can support the technical amendments, as I said, it would have been good to bring forward further paragraphs if this amendment had already been introduced here. What we consider most important is that we will continue to monitor the use of R &amp; D resources, and we will confront the Government with the promises it has made in this area. Jobbik can undertake that if the Hungarians give us the necessary authority in 2018 and we are able to become governments, we will also make a meaningful change in this area. On the one hand, this will mean in practice that R &amp; D and innovation will be much stronger in government policy and will have practical results; on the other hand, it will mean that we will really look at the allocation of resources, and when we make any laws in this area here in Parliament so that they can benefit from these subsidies, whether they are small and medium-sized enterprises or, where appropriate, large companies, as this would serve the interests of Hungary. So I am not sure that it is necessarily the forwarding one that we said at the time, too, that, of course, this 60 percent sound good, but if in practice it does not result in a wide range of companies, companies, having access to these funds, these subsidies, this will not have a positive impact on our country. We would like to change this radically, and we will ask for the authority to do so. And now, as I have said in this bill, we are characterised by this mixed attitude, and I hope that there will be a substantive debate here, and I hope that the Secretary of State will also respond to the points and comments that have been raised at this item on the agenda. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2016-11-23-110	Thank you very much, Congressman. István Ikotity, Member of the LMP Group, notary of the Parliament. Here you go, notary.
u2016-11-23-111	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Based on the preliminary plans, it is now due to amend the R &amp; D and innovation law adopted in 2014. Some corrective changes are being introduced in the legislation, without actually affecting the relevant issues. This is a problem, because there are serious shortcomings in innovation in Hungary, which could be dealt with by changes at the legislative level - I will talk about this soon - and on the other hand, we have few systems, which would not be newly set up, the government would continue to unfold, and let us just think about our education system, which is one of the main causes of the crisis of the system. If you just leave that system alone, the still malfunctioning system, the situation would be much better. [[13.30]] However, this is not the case with the R &amp; D and innovation system. Now, after two years, they don't touch the basic things that need to be changed. When János Lázár presented the new law in 2014, the LMP agreed that new frameworks should be established instead of the previously fragmented regulation and the fragmented institutional environment. This is a key area, R &amp; D and innovation can be Hungary's way of breaking out. LMP has long said that R &amp; D and innovation are a key factor in the development of the Hungarian economy. Once again, we must say that the international competitiveness of the Hungarian economy and society, ensuring sustainable development, is only possible if our Hungarian R &amp; D performance can significantly improve. If that doesn't happen, we'll never be a successful country. On the basis of the government's proposal, a structure has finally been created in 2014 that focuses on the management, control and allocation of scientific and innovation policy in one hand. Our main concern was this. It is not necessarily because of centralization that we have raised our word, and it is a key element of innovation, because this was indeed necessary to some extent because of the previous environment. We raised our word exactly because of the way they did it. The LMP said that professional control should be strengthened to ensure that decisions are not concentrated in one hand, but, for example, that corporate decisions are taken in the allocation of resources. This is an important area, so we would have created legislation on important issues that would have involved MTA, chambers and trade unions, and we would have provided the public and civil control in the new operation of the innovation institution and apparatus. The Government did not support our intention to do so, and voted against our amendments. Unfortunately, the new amendment before us does not address these problems either. In fact, now, in the distribution of state R &amp; D innovation resources, discernment for outsiders is obscured by uncertainty and secrecy. We see that this system is not working well. The state of innovation in Hungary is very poor. Here, the focus should be further broadened, broadened, more widely examined, innovation analysed in an appropriate socio-economic environment. Let me refer to the 2016 European Innovation Scoreboard study, according to which Hungary's innovation performance remains below the EU's average performance. Based on the indicators of innovation performance, we have reached only 21 out of 28 countries. What are some important aspects of this compilation? He's the first to look at higher education. The relationship is simple: if there are more graduates, more thinking, more creative, more entrepreneurial young people, then there is greater innovation. Frequently used indicator is the proportion of graduates in the population aged 30-34 years. Although Fidesz-KDNP is constantly demoting higher education and dissuading young people from further education, the expansion of higher education in the 2000s is not so bad. Many young graduates have just entered the 30-34 age group, although we are still a little below the EU average. The proportion of graduates is therefore very low compared to the creation of a knowledge-based economy, so the LMP's often stated objective is to have four out of ten graduates in Hungary. Unfortunately, the development of higher education in Hungary is not in this direction. Before the administration of Fidesz-KDNP, 100,000 out of 140,000 applicants were admitted to higher education; only 111,000 young people applying to higher education were admitted to universities and colleges this year. 100 out of 140 in 2010 and 74 out of 111,000 this year. This decline cannot be explained by demographic reasons, but there has not been much less young people, although it is a very serious problem with the migration of young people, but this is particularly the case in the 20-40-year-old population. There were thousands of people leaving this country every month. The decline in higher education is more due to the diversion of resources from higher education, the failure of rural institutions, the shock of actors with various transformation plans, the cluttering of students, the putting of teachers in a vulnerable position. They raided universities and colleges. Think of the system of chancellors and consistors here. However, less and less students because the social situation in society has generally deteriorated, and fewer and fewer people can afford further education. The shrinking of higher education is a huge problem, it greatly reduces our capacity to innovate, reduces our competitiveness and indirectly strengthens the shortage of labour, also linked to the debate day. Let's keep moving. The proportion of PhD students is also rather poor compared to the EU average. The situation is made worse by the fact that teachers and researchers are not being paid today, and the competitive sphere is immediately sucking up talented young people. Indeed, only very dedicated and conscientious teaching assistants and beginners will remain on the field, for which they hardly get recognition. The government doesn't care about their wages. If we don't have doctoral students, we don't have young researchers, then our innovation performance is also weakening. As regards higher education, let me mention a recent publication of the KSH, which analyses the innovation situation in 2015. With regard to R &amp; D activities in the higher education sector, KSH also stresses that there is a continuous decline, which can be observed both in research centres, staffing and research and development expenditures. The European study also examined the state expenditure on R &amp; D. In this context, a professional debate has already developed on what is and is not R &amp; D expenditure. The LMP says that 2-3 forints out of every 100 HUF budget should be spent on innovation. At present, we expect the country to spend 1 forint 20 forints in 100 forints. So we should at least double our spending. Innovation expenditure is one of the best investments, it will pay back many times later. But it is not enough to increase spending, we should also be much better aware of the availability and effectiveness of innovation resources. The LMP is an active pursuer of corruption, and we are also meeting with research and development resources with a number of programmes and tender implementations where there is a strong suspicion that the funds for innovation are in the pockets of people close to the government. The R &amp; D expenditure of companies is equally important. Unfortunately, this is also below average in Hungary. We need more tax incentives, more information, good examples, government programmes. Innovation must also be studied, and for this there could be separate programmes beyond the education system. What we are really behind is the share of small and medium-sized enterprises implementing innovation. This is why the LMP stresses the importance of job creation for young people, as creative young people are the most likely to be able to expect innovation performance. The next indicator in the survey was the proportion of people doing knowledge-based work. Although this is only slightly below the EU average, comparison can be misleading due to the inclusion of jobs for which innovation is less likely. In any case, it is a very serious problem, and it will continue to have the effect that the Fidesz-KDNP government has delivered vocational training to the oligarchs. After vocational schools, the education of vocational secondary schools and the education of vocational secondary schools were reduced, the teaching of science subjects was reduced. But in a broader sense, our entire public education system is inadequate for the 21st century. prepare young people for the challenges of the century. [[13.40]] From Rózsa Hoffmann to Juditon Czunyiné Bertalan, to László Palkovics, everyone is working to put a complete knowledge base in the minds of young people instead of teaching them to think. We don't need encyclopedias, we have the Internet in everyone's pocket these days, but we need creative and willing young people. Lexical education excludes alternative methods and new forms of culture. Finally, exports of medium and high technological intensity products are also an important indicator. This is the only place where we can see performance above the EU average, but this is only thanks to the foreign automotive industry. What's wrong is he can move to another country at any time. It's not ours, it's not our performance, it's mainly the power of German capital. [[Gábor Bányai: Should I be ashamed?]] Dear House, There is no need to be ashamed, Congressman Bányai, I do not think that we should be ashamed, the Hungarian people are a major contributor to this, but if we are doing such a vulnerable activity, we are not trying to put our own small and medium-sized enterprises in a position, but rather the foreign capital, which can move away whenever the economic environment becomes like that, this certainly does not give rise to pride. The thing is that education policy and innovation belong to two separate wallets within the government, and unfortunately, there is tension here. On the one hand, János Lázár is working for innovation, and he is submitting a legislative amendment if the funds on which innovation should be built are not available from the other side - on the part of the Minister of Human Resources - if, in the case of vocational training, higher education, it is increasingly seen that the system is not fit to operate it. In short, there is a social environment that, due to its deteriorating state, does not favour innovation. There is an education and social system that already undermines the possibilities of innovation, does not make it easier for development, does not create the foundations. There is a persistently low R &amp; D funding, and there is a public institutional system, a legislative environment that does not allow professional control, does not allow a say in making decisions, such as the allocation of innovation resources. It must be stated that we see that innovation is clearly not important for the Fidesz-KDNP government, when it coordinates its own activities and allocates resources, it is visible, not at all, at the 21st century. It is moving towards a knowledge-based society of the century. It is enough to raise just one question a year ago, which was addressed to the Prime Minister by the head of the LMP faction, when Viktor Orbán asked what knowledge-based society the government is building, the Prime Minister replied that I do not understand the question of what kind of people in white coats are going to be running around here. So we think that as long as the government approaches the knowledge-based society in this way, innovation will not be able to have a significant impact in the country, but in any case it will not be able to do enough to make Hungary a truly successful country. Thank you for your attention.
u2016-11-23-112	Thank you very much, Congressman. Ladies and gentlemen, This brings us to the end of the keynote speeches. I will ask my fellow Members if anyone else wishes to speak in the debate. [[There's no candidate.]] I don't see any contact. The general debate is closed. I will ask the rapporteur if he wishes to respond to what was said in the debate. [[For signal:]] Yes, he does. I give the floor to Secretary of State Nándor Csepreghy. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2016-11-23-113	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I would just like to add a few sentences, and that is because the debate has gone in a direction that has been about a lot but not about the content of the presentation. It is true that Mrs Kunhalmi is right that education should be addressed and competence-based education should be promoted. Indeed, you are right, Mr President, when you talk about the importance of innovation, you forget only one, and the facts. The current government will spend 700 billion forints on innovation by 2020. The parallel that Mrs Kunhalmi mentioned, according to which Albert Einstein was able to develop new theories without having any sources of innovation, is basically saying that because there are universities and there is basic research, let us not support innovation at all. It should be noted that innovation is divided into three stages. It consists of basic research carried out by universities, of basic research, and of innovation when we are essentially talking about transforming ideas into concrete market products. In this regard, I think that, indeed, there has been a system in Hungary that contains all the guarantees that, if the gentleman representing these facts takes into account what you expect. The proposals that have appeared on the issue of innovation have been discussed in advance with the Chamber of Commerce, the social organisations. Congresswoman missed the presence of the Hungarian Academy of Sciences in innovation applications. I would like to draw your attention, in your absence - I hope you will not take this as an insult - to the fact that the current president of the Innovation Office is also the president of the Hungarian Academy of Sciences, who has been reigning in previous cycles. I would also like to mention, in any case, that the professionalism, the decision competence that the Member misses, for example, in the evaluation of innovation proposals, is in the 15,000 evaluators whose non-name list, but with their functional list - he has not been here in the expo - I have said these. I think that these proposals, which lie before you today with the amendment of the law, are nothing but a technical amendment to a law that leaves an even more effective innovation policy in Hungary. If you are serious about what you said earlier, then I think you can justify this by supporting this proposal. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2016-11-23-114	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, The amendments may be submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. Next up is the 1997 LXVIII on the service relationship of judicial staff. Act CLXIV of 2011 on the status of the Attorney General, prosecutors and other public prosecutors and on the career of the prosecutor. General discussion of the bill amending the law until closure. The submission submitted by our fellow Member, Mr Pál Völner, Fidesz T/12920. Number 2 is available on the Parliament's IT network. I now give the floor to Mr Pál Völner, rapporteur on the agenda, in a 30-minute time frame. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2016-11-23-115	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, The purpose of the bill before you is to ensure that the so-called career difference continues to apply unchangedly to judicial staff and non-prosecution prosecutorial staff. The legal institution of the difference in careers is not new to the legislator, since the rules on how it was calculated and how it was paid were included in the two legal acts concerned in 2001, namely LXVIII of 1997 on the service relationship of judicial staff. LXXX 1994 on the law and on the prosecutor's service relationship and prosecutor's data management. Act, replaced by CLXIV 2011 on the status of the Attorney General, prosecutors and other public prosecutors and on the career of the prosecutor as of 1 January 2012. It's a law. The law on the status of judicial staff determines the status of persons such as the court author, the court secretary, the official or the clerk. The law on the status of prosecutors and other public prosecutors' employees regulates the status of prosecutors in addition to prosecutors, who are not affected by the legal institution of the career difference and, therefore, by this bill, for example, the status of the assistant prosecutor, the public prosecutor, the official and the clerk. The similarity of the names set out in the law on the status of judicial staff and in the law on the status of prosecutors and prosecutors' servants also means similar qualifications, skills and responsibilities. The legal institution of the career difference has been functioning for the last about a decade and a half, i.e. for all parliamentary periods, in accordance with its original purpose. The aim has always been to ensure consistency between the rules on civil servants and on other public servants who are largely treated the same way. This meant that the salaries of judicial staff working in the courts or the National Court of Justice and the salary of non-prosecution prosecutorial staff could not be less than the salaries of civil servants. If, on the basis of the different methods of calculating salaries, a lower salary had nevertheless been paid to the judicial staff member or the prosecutor's staff member, the difference had to be paid on the basis of a career difference. According to the current rules, the calculation of the career difference is based on the 2011 CXCIX for government officials on public service officials. basic salary plus statutory salary. [[13.50]] However, the reference of the two laws to be amended by the bill to the Public Service Officers Act will be deleted from 1 January 2017, given the fact that the 2016 LII on State Officials is empty. By law, the stock of the metropolitan county government offices will become a public official with effect from 1 January 2017. Ladies and gentlemen, Everyone can agree that both judicial staff and prosecutorial staff must continue to receive their supplementary salary. The bill before you seeks to remedy this by clarifying the method of calculating salaries under the laws on the status of judicial staff and on the status of prosecutorial staff from 1 January 2017; this makes it clear that the career difference for the staff concerned will be maintained. Dear House, In my opinion, my bill removes any legal uncertainty by keeping the legal institution of the career difference unchanged. I therefore recommend the bill to the attention of my fellow Members and ask for their support. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-11-23-116	Thank you very much, Congressman. I would like to ask, with all due respect, Secretary of State Mariann the Water East, here in this House, if you would like to speak on behalf of the government. [[For signal:]] Yes, he does. Secretary of State Mariann the Water East, please.
u2016-11-23-117	Thank you very much for the floor. We fully agree with the aim of the presentation, but due to the complexity and strength of the problem, further consideration is needed. In view of this, the Government also considers that an extraordinary solution is necessary on the grounds set out by the Member. Thank you very much.
u2016-11-23-118	Thank you very much, Madam Secretary. Now we're going to hear the speeches from the lead speaker. The lead speaker of the Fidesz Group is Mr Répássy Róbert. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2016-11-23-119	Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, The proposal is clear and clear, since the proposal seeks to resolve a legal situation which has been proposed by changing the legal environment of government officials and public officials, the legislation has changed, and since the salaries of judicial staff have been adapted to this, it is clear that the laws on judicial staff and the status of prosecutorial staff should also be amended. However, I would like to point out that, as the Secretary of State has just said, it is indeed worth bringing to Parliament a complex solution on the salary of judicial staff and prosecutorial staff, since the report of the National Court of Justice and the Public Prosecutor's Office also shows that a rather dangerous fluctuation has started among judicial and prosecutorial staff, but in particular judicial staff. It is therefore thoughtful that, while a career model has been introduced among state officials, which is a major wage model, and the government is constantly developing this career model for judicial staff, because they do not have the number of posts and there are not enough degrees in which to give salary supplements, salary supplements, so judicial staff, even the best earning judicial staff, find themselves in a position to have a better career or higher wages in other areas of the public service. To sum up, the Fidesz-Hungarian Citizens' Association Group supports both the proposal for a solution presented by Mr Völner, Secretary of State and a much more complex and far-reaching proposal for a solution. Thank you very much for the floor. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-11-23-120	Thank you very much, Congressman. The lead speaker of the MSZP Group is Mr Gergely Bárándy. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2016-11-23-121	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. I would like to begin by saying that the Honourable Secretary of State is in the wrong place. Because you, as I understand it, should be sitting where you are now, Madam Secretary of State and, where appropriate, Mrs Secretary of State, doing something else in the Ministry, because this would have been a good idea to put forward as a government proposal. It is only because, by presenting it as a motion for its own representatives, it is obviously for the purpose, although it will disprove and say that this is only because of the acceleration of the process; no, I think it is not because of that, but because of that, that should have been discussed, let us say, with the OBH, then you would have had strong and hard debates, Mr Secretary of State - as Secretary of State. The reason why you were looking forward to a tough debate is that the OBH and the judiciary probably don't imagine the salary for the settlement of judicial staff in this way and to this extent. It has been recognised everywhere in Europe - we have not yet succeeded, it seems - that the proper functioning of justice, the up-to-date and quality, is the basis of democracy, and therefore there are a number of provisions which, if you like, seem to justify this position. For example, in many places the court budget can not be less than the previous year under law. This is what we have proposed, and otherwise this system has been introduced elsewhere in Hungary. Interestingly, it was not introduced in the courts. [[Dr. Robert Répássy: Yes! It's the law. The president's ringing the bell.]] Then they also realized that the effective and good functioning of the courts could not be a question of money. We are not talking about a number such as, say, in the case of a law enforcement body or otherwise - and that is why I do not wish to make a qualitative distinction, say, in a health system - a scale smaller numbers, even if we count the circle that is now before us, who is affected by this bill, the judicial staff, and if we stay with the judges specifically, we can talk about 2800 judges there. There's money here, I don't think there's any question. One possible goal: justice must work effectively and well. In spite of the proposal on the remuneration of judicial staff, for a short period of thought, I think that this issue must be addressed to what is going on with the salaries of judges, as it is partly related to, and partly related to, judicial staff. The fact is, Mr Secretary of State, that you have promised a 5-5-5% wage development in three steps after, by the way, the judges have not received a penny increase since 2003. For almost a decade and a half, you'll be paid the same salary, and after that, you'll be able to spot your eyes out to the judiciary with a three-fold raise of five percent. And I'm going to address this to you, first of all, you're the one who submitted this bill, so I'm going to have to argue with you, but for the sake of the truth and fairness, a lot of people have tried to get ahead of it and talk about a bigger wage increase. The fact is, and I address this to someone who is not here, that Prime Minister Viktor Orbán personally hates the judiciary. He hates the judiciary because he has no influence on this company, he has not been able to subdue it, and here decisions are made that do not come from him or, in any case, from which he is not happy. I understand that for a person like him, in a system that we're living now, it's confusing. However, I think that it is petty and petty that, even if the Prime Minister has such an emotional world, he expresses this by not giving the judges a normal wage increase or a salary increase. But what is related to this - and to give a little indication of the situation of judicial payments, if I know correctly, is still 40 percent, but if not, it can be quite similar in scale -: the salaries of court writers and secretaries are adapted to the judges, so a certain percentage of that, I say, if I remember correctly, 40 in the case of authors. And now there is a need for a correction, and I think that it says more than anything else, that we need to raise the wages of court writers in some technical way - and that is what we are proposing - because otherwise it would not reach the minimum wage. My fellow Members, if 40 percent of a judge's salary is less than the minimum wage, there is much to say, but it is not that this salary ensures their integrity, or at least promotes judicial integrity, one of the pillars of which is that they receive a salary - because they cannot earn income from another place, the law excludes it, by the way, quite rightly excluding it - so that they can make a good living and ensure and promote judicial independence once again. [[14.00]] [[In the notary seat, Nándor Gúr will be replaced by Loránt Hegedűs.]] There aren't enough candidates for court essays, despite the fact that I think that the judicial career is one of the top legal careers. A lot of people who go to law school want to be a judge, and how is it that not because of the competition, the number of admissions is reduced, but because there are not enough applicants? It is also a meaningful thing, and it is also a sign of the state of payment in the judiciary, I think. Of course, we get to other law enforcement and prosecution staff, where, when you're a little interested in this sphere, you hear that in many cases, an auxiliary job can be attractive to such a person, because you earn better there than, let's say, in a court of law. Well, that's a shame, too. The fact that if you do not change this quickly - and I understand your hurry in this respect - may come to the conclusion that you are going to resign in bulk in the courts; perhaps you have referred to this in your exposé, my fellow Member, because if the judge does not have adequate additional staff, if there is no descriptive staff, if there is no assist, then he can work, however, the cases will not go, and the statistics on which the President of the OBH is so proud will not look this way in the future if we do not really settle this very quickly. But I think it's not a good way to do what you're suggesting here. First of all, I don't know if you've been looking at whether you want to tie the wages of law enforcement employees to the right law, because I've also heard back from several places that it's going to be hard enough to apply, so if you're gonna link it to something, you're gonna have to tie it to another law, the law of 2016 and not what's ahead. But it's a technical story, the question is whether you're lucky to separate the salaries of the judicial staff from the payments, especially those of the judicial staff, when you'll be a judge later, based on the logic of the system, or if you're a judge. So that's where I'm thinking, first of all, about the posts of authors and secretaries. The system has created a particular problem, which I think should not be settled on the payment side - it should be resolved - but the perception should be different. Today, the fact that a secretary is a secretary for six to eight years is a normal condition, although this is not what the secretary institution was designed to do, it was designed to be, after a quasi-professional examination, a kind of hallway for the judicial career, its introduction, a year's secretariat, up to two years' worth, to appoint someone to judge. By the way, the provisions of the Fundamental Law, the few provisions I can agree with, that no one under the age of 30 should be appointed a judge. Indeed, it takes a kind of life experience, perhaps even more. This, however, results in about one student leaving the university at the age of 24, say, no interruptions, becoming an author immediately, if he does this for three years, then 27 years, he passes the exam in about a year, then 28, and then he has two years of secretaryship, and then he is appointed judge. This system is okay, but for six or eight years, someone is a secretary, and there are some who, as far as I know, do not even apply for a job as a judge, but who think they want to continue working as a secretary. [[In the notary seat, Attila Móring József will be replaced by Dr. István Tiba.]] After seven years, the salary increase stops, if I'm aware of it, but fix me if you don't. So that means that if you are a secretary for three or four years, from then on you will no longer be paid, it doesn't matter how many years you spend in the service, which is obviously designed to adjust to judicial salaries so that you can't go above a secretary's salary, let's say, a judicial salary. That's right, but I think - and now I'm going to get to why we should change not the rules of payment, but the attitude. I've told you many times, but you want to come here too, installing powers on the secretary that you've just done, it's a mistake. You calculate that, on the one hand, it is cheaper and that it is easier to instruct and transfer, and that the rest of its independence, i.e. its status, remains significantly below the courts, so it is more practical. And this status has been assigned powers which have been exercised by judges before, and rightly so, because, in my view, it is far more fortunate to exercise those powers - I do not say constitutionalism, because in some cases it is unconstitutional, sometimes it is not, there has been debate and decision Ab, but the point is that the secretaries perform a job that should be performed by a judge in my view, or many jobs, and it would be much simpler and better, and a more legal solution, if the number of judges were to increase if these tasks were increased and that the activities were performed by judges, or, let us say, as the vice-president. And it's not a game with words, because a subjugator - but I don't mind the name secretary - is the Bj. must be subject to the law on the status of judges. That is, not only must he be independent in his decisions in these matters, but also in his status, he must have the independence that a judge deserves. That is when I think that a decision can be made on these matters in a legal way. And if I'm gonna make him a subjugator, and I'm gonna call him the BJ. subject to his status, then these payment problems, I think they arise less, because the fact that a long-standing sub-courtist who wants to stay in this status earns more than a beginner judge who spent a quarter of the time in the organization is a normal thing, but not that a court employee earns more than a judge. So I think, once again, that this must be achieved not by transforming the payment system, but by changing a kind of attitude. So, ladies and gentlemen, what I think of the law before us is that I understand that you want to prevent great trouble very quickly, and you want to achieve some kind of raise in the justice system, that is commendable, but I would like to ask that this be the fire-fighting, this law is about putting out fire, it's about not having half of the law-workers go to the law. And then, very soon, the OBH will sit down, and very soon, the Ministry will sit down and develop a system that is European in terms of both the rule of law and the salaries. Thank you very much for your attention. [[14.10]]
u2016-11-23-122	Thank you very much, Congressman. The lead speaker of the Jobbik Group is Mr Gábor Staudt. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2016-11-23-123	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, Of course, the proposal before us can be agreed, as it provides for a wage correction. I think there is no debate that this is necessary, but I also agree with Gergely Bárándy that this is a necessary step, Mr. Secretary of State or Secretary of State, but it is not enough. What we need to see is that the salaries of judges are really very low, and the social weight and social expectations that weigh on them are not even close to the wages they receive. It is true that there is a very long period of time for many law - executed people to act as secretaries, while, if appropriate, they would like to be judges, or in other cases - and we may have heard that - perhaps because the course is so full or contented, but many of the secretaries may not apply for the position of judge. What is certain, however, is that justice is not an area with a large number of employees, so that it is not possible to achieve huge changes by adding a few billion forints. This is also important because - and it is obviously for the judges, although this is not a question of judicial payments directly, but when such a proposal comes before us, some thoughts about the whole justice system must also be dropped. So even their salary is far from market conditions. Here, we can compare market relations to a middle-class lawyer, not to star lawyers, but to, say, an average middle-class lawyer, which should be reached. It will reach it in the West, and there are very low judicial salaries in international comparison, but as far as other employees are concerned, the situation there is quite horrifying. It is often the task of these administrators, everyone who works in this status, to make an accurate record in the negotiations, to provide background work. And it is also true that, according to international examples, a judge receives much more support staff than in Hungary. There's a way to change that. Rather, the judges should be well paid, and I do not necessarily say that we should increase the number of judges significantly, to some extent, but it might also be a solution compared to a major increase if they have their assistance, and in many cases this assist does not necessarily mean legally executed people, but skilled administrators and, of course, lawyers and advisors who work under their own hands can be included with them, but in many cases it is not even the highest qualified lawyers that should be considered, but it is capable of providing assistance to basic tasks. Without it, the desire to reform the courts, the justice system is in vain. Obviously, cases can be packed, rural judges can be involved in reducing the burden of the case in Budapest, but in fact we are putting a greater burden on rural judges. I am not saying that there may have been areas in the country where there was less burden on the courts, but what I see is that somewhere there was a normal load, or in many places, this was particularly common in the past, if you look at statistics, then in the courts of Budapest there was an extreme, unbearable load. It is not necessarily fair to settle this simply by redeploying cases. Of course, we see that the OBH is trying, at least according to its report, to overcome the situation, and the statistics in Budapest have also been improved, but it will not be possible without a well-trained and well-paid assist. I must say, it is true that it is not about money at all, since this amount can be found in the budget. If we compare - and this is also an important aspect - with the possibilities of the prosecution, we have seen that the prosecution has received more and more money compared to the courts. The D.A.'s office was kinder to the government somehow. Obviously, they won't admit it, so I'm not saying that I'm expecting a government confession, but those who work in the system know perfectly well that they are. Then it could be said that this may be because the D.A.'s office is doing its job better for you or not. Again, this is clearly a matter of perspective. I am convinced that this may be part of your view of the prosecution as being kinder, and unfortunately, there is also the truth that Viktor Orbán has made statements that did not predict that he would respect the judiciary to such an extent that he would also like to settle these financial relations. Then, why this is so again, we may have ideas and tips, but it is certain that the court is the only system of organization in Hungary that has kept its independence the most, despite the fact that through the OBH system, the OBH President has received very important rights, which in many cases we believe may already - and this may be true for the current President - endanger the independence of the courts, especially in the way and with the addition that by declaring the tenders ineffective, if he does not wish or can not deviate from the ranking set up in the case of a management appointment, the current President - and the current President, Mr Hando Tünde, will be able to make use of this opportunity, otherwise we have already done this at the hearing of the Commission, and we will explain in detail here, in Parliament, that he will not wish or be able to deviate from the ranking set up in the case of a proposal declared unsuccessful, and therefore he can give a mandate in the event of the appointment, so: for a transitional period. Of course, if someone has won an assignment as an outsider, then he can rely more easily on the court when writing his application. Obviously, local knowledge will be achieved, and as the months pass or even the years pass, it can obviously be an effective, valid application. So the tricks are in the system. I really don't want to lead this out, and we really want this to change, and at least we can push this power of declaration to the level of OBT. And, I add, even that would not be a perfect solution, since the current OBH president is, in some respects, the employer of the members of OBT and their future advancement. So it is not even possible to say that a completely independent system is being developed, but it would certainly be a step forward. Now that we're talking about money, we have to tell you that if I'm right, the judges and prosecutors are in sync. If I'm wrong, I'd like to be corrected. I find this, though stoned, unfair. A judge is under much greater pressure, much more with independence in mind and indeed must act independently, even within the judicial system, since he cannot accept instructions from within the judicial system. In the case of prosecutors, I don't see this independent procedure. He goes to a trial, does his things, and when a decisive decision has to be made, especially a political decision, or in which politics may be involved in some form, senior prosecutors have to ask his opinion, or if he doesn't ask for his opinion, they will come to him and tell him what should be done. This is a natural function of the system, unfortunately, in the prosecution's office. So I think it should be said not only to the prosecution's system that he is independent, because the main prosecutor is elected by the Parliament, and then if he succeeds in the way, and let's say, choosing a former Fidesz candidate for office, let's say, as the chief prosecutor, this starts with the independence of the entire system. But I would add, even in this case, if the prosecution were not such a hierarchy as it is today, even a political prosecutor could not force or enforce his will to the system to the extent that otherwise he could not give clear instructions that the negotiator should carry out. [[14.20]] So when we are talking about the independence of the prosecutor, we are talking about the independence of the negotiator, the prosecutors who carry cases, and we are talking about whether they can decide to appeal, not to appeal, to make an appeal, to make an increase, to appeal, to appeal, to mitigate, if any, or, by the way, the case where it is directed, and if they do not do the right thing or make professional mistakes, then the superior prosecutors can deduct the appropriate conclusions, just as the judges have the responsibility for disciplinary action, but who carries a case through, knows it in detail, and therefore is able to make the most appropriate decision, not somewhere above the level of direct prosecutor or even above. So what I'm saying is that a judge has more weight, we expect more from the judge, and the system requires more from a judge than a prosecutor who, in most cases, obeys orders. That's how the D.A.'s organizational system is built. I also want a Turkish lance that a judge has a higher benefit than a prosecutor, which, of course, doesn't mean that prosecutors shouldn't be paid, but if we put the two positions on the balance, then for me, the judge is still a more racial position with a greater burden on his shoulders. Returning to the administrators for one more thought: I do not know what it takes not only to include such wage corrections in the system, but also a real increase in the number of employees, which would otherwise bring the right results along with technical enlargement. We have heard from the Handi Fae that there are forward-looking steps - at least he has set them to be forward-looking - but the 21st edition of the 21st century. In the 20th century, it would be expected that the minutes would be recorded in the courtrooms in a short time, and that even the record-keeping could act as an automatic, based on the oral text spoken - in many places in the West it would be written, and it would only have to be controlled and verified. We hope that this will not be the very long future, but that this may happen in a few years. Of course, this requires administrators who are paid, committed, committed to justice, and need money to do so. One more important issue at the end, when we talk about the courts; we talk about it, but it always stays out. As far as I know, pension replacements for former retired judges should also be settled. It is about, Madam Secretary of State, that some have previously received various allowances. As far as I know, in the past, the judges received only part of their salary in such a way that they were paid, the rest were all kinds of additional benefits - supposedly several allowances, let me not list them now - but when they retired, they were not taken into account, and they did not calculate the amount of the pension that they actually received in the average of one, two, five years, but their salary, which was a ridiculous amount, could be half of what he actually received. Thus, even serious court leaders may be forced to make a living from an amount that cannot be made, and which is completely humiliating and does not allow them to make a living, so they must take up all kinds of side jobs by spending 30-40 years as court leaders on the field. I must say, this is also humiliating. It wouldn't be a big sum if we were to introduce this compensation. I would ask the Secretary of State to consider this, and to make a proposal that a correction could be made not only in the active system but also in the case of former retired judges. If you're interested, I'll give you the experience and see if they're true, if they're right at all their points, but this system should be resolved. We can, of course, agree with this proposal, but I have to say that this is a zeroth step and the elimination of a legislative problem or the attainment of a minimum level, but progress is almost non-existent. Nevertheless, it is important that you come before this House, but as I said, we expect further steps. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2016-11-23-124	Thank you very much, Congressman. Ladies and gentlemen, This brings us to the end of the keynote speeches. I will ask my fellow Members if anyone wishes to speak in the debate. Mr Répássy Róbert has applied for a two-minute speech. Here you go.
u2016-11-23-125	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen of the opposition, For the sake of the facts only, I would like to tell you that the 2011 CLXII on the status and remuneration of judges. Law 169. Pursuant to paragraph 2 of Section 2 of the Act on the Central Budget, the judicial salary base shall be determined annually in such a way that its amount may not be lower than the amount of the previous year. By the way, this year was 391 600 forints, and next year it will rise to 431 740 forints. As far as the court budget is concerned: while the court chapter budget was HUF 70.4 billion in 2010, the court budget has exceeded HUF 100 billion by 2017, so the government's court budget has increased by more than 50 percent since its establishment in 2010. According to the law on the organisation and administration of the courts, the president of the OBH, the budgetary officer of the chapter, draws up the budget of the courts by requesting the opinion of the President of the Curia, and then, as part of the bill on the central budget and the bill on its implementation, the government submits it to Parliament without any change. Therefore, there is every legal guarantee that there is no pressure on the courts through the budget of the courts. The Court's budget increases year after year, and the minimum amount of the judges' salary laid down by law is the previous year's salary, but it will be even higher next year's salary. Thank you very much.
u2016-11-23-126	Thank you very much, Congressman. We will continue with the two-minute speeches. Mr Gergely Bárándy, from the group of the MSZP, is next. Here you go, Congressman.
u2016-11-23-127	Thank you very much, Mr. President. My fellow Member, Répássy, probably misunderstood, because I was not talking about keeping or prohibiting the reduction of the judicial salary, but about the entire court budget. You don't have that guarantee there, even though it was given elsewhere. If I remember correctly, the SAO has it that it cannot be less than the budget of the previous year, or the Constitutional Court, it may not be possible for both of them, but the courts do not have it specifically, although, if you will, this trend has basically started from here, and precisely because of the independence of the judiciary. The fact that extra resources have been provided to courts and prosecutors is commendable in itself, but let us also add why this has happened. If we are talking about tangible improvements and the obligation to switch to e-administration, then we are far from doing so well. They give extra jobs to the courts, and they assign that plus to it. Once again, they are not making normal operation better, but the new tasks that the courts have to finance from this amount. As far as I'm concerned, you can deny me, if you don't, you still can't afford the amount. So the problem with e-administration in the courts is the problem and the problem. And the fact that the law guarantees that there can be no less wages for judges does not change a bit that it is shameful that it has not risen by a penny in 13 years. The judges' salary has been the same forints for 13 years! [[Dr. Robert Répássy: I just told you how much he's risen!]] That's right, fellow Member. I may say once again that it has been recorded that it cannot be less, but this does not ensure that the level of judicial pay is such that independence is guaranteed and guaranteed in this respect. There hasn't been a judicial wage development in 13 years, Mr. Secretary, Congressman. If you deny that, then do it, I'll be curious. Thank you. [[14.30]]
u2016-11-23-128	I will ask my fellow Members if anyone else wishes to speak in the debate. Robert Répássy, two minutes.
u2016-11-23-129	Dear House, Congressman Bárándy said that in the previous year there was a fine of HUF 391 thousand, and now this House has raised the salary base to HUF 431 thousand by 2017. So the court's salary is rising. Moreover, the rise in the salaries of officials, the judiciary officials, is also adapted to this, as judicial salaries are linked to the judicial salary base.
u2016-11-23-130	Congressman Gergely Bárándy, two minutes. Actually, I couldn't give you the floor, could I, because... [[Dr. Gergely Bárándy: I'll do normal.]] 'Cause I know how to make a proper speech. [[Dr. Gergely Bárándy: I was doing normal.]] Thank you very much. Here you go.
u2016-11-23-131	Thank you very much, Mr. President; let's keep it normal. Mr. Secretary, that's what I'm saying, you're talking about the next year. That's what I told you, and now they're setting up a five-percent wage increase in three installments. Then don't tell me what I'm saying isn't true for the last 13 years. 'Cause so far, he hasn't lifted anything. You're talking about how after 13 years, you can spot three times five percent of the judges' eyes. [[Dr. Pál Völner: Seven of these are yours.]] That's what I'm talking about! That's exactly what I'm talking about! I don't think we're contradicting each other on this one. If you look at this salary nominally, it's still not what it should be. Or do you think that's satisfactory? Then let me ask you back. Do you think that this payment today in Hungary, in addition to today's prices, and the rest, can you guarantee judicial independence? Is that right? In Hungary, and I do not believe that my fellow Member will deny me, the worst is the salary of judges in Hungary in the European Union. Nowhere else in Europe has such a low salary for a judge. [[Happy István: Neither do skilled workers.]] Perhaps, my honourable fellow Member, the skilled worker doesn't have one either. But I don't think you've said much yet. That's a shame, too. But if I look at the payments in the public sector, and I don't even talk about the private sector, just the public sector, then I think that once again we are just saying that if we compare the ratio between judicial payments and public sector salaries in other states, then Hungary will not look good. And what Congressman Répássy said, by the way, is that this excellent and excellent salary is also linked to the salary of judicial staff, and I said that this is correct. This is right in itself, and it is not necessary to change that, but to change the judicial salary. And if we raise the court's salary in a fair way, at least 50 percent minimum, then the judicial staff will probably be more satisfied. But this bill, which is before us, is what separates the salaries of the judicial staff from the salaries of the judges. If you think this is wrong - I think it is wrong - then why do you support this proposal? Thank you very much. [[Dr. Laszlo Varga applauds.]]
u2016-11-23-132	Thank you very much, Congressman. As no one has applied for a speech, the general debate is closed. I will ask Mr Pál Völner, as rapporteur, whether he wishes to respond to what was said in the debate. [[For signal:]] Yes, he does. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2016-11-23-133	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Make it short. I thank my fellow Members, on the one hand, for agreeing with the aim of resolving this additional salary issue. On the other hand, I regret that we have gone in all other directions, even in relation to the next items on the agenda, the labour market. And thank you for admitting that the 3 times 5 percent wage increase will also happen in this sector, which is also the result of the government's work that has taken place in recent years, and we have been able to get the country out of the crisis that marked the socialist era. I think it is possible to argue whether this is the most appropriate proposal that has come before this House, but we must make sure that I do not harm those who work there and that their wages are paid on the basis of the same method of calculation as before. Thank you very much for your attention. [[It's a rare round of applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-11-23-134	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, The amendments may be submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. Dear Parliament, There will be a general debate on the bill on the Hungarian Corvin Chain Board until its closure. Government referral T/12914. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, I give the floor to Mr János Lázár, Minister of the Prime Minister's Office, rapporteur on the agenda, within a 30-minute time frame. Here you go, Minister. You have the floor.
u2016-11-23-135	Thank you very much. Honourable Parliament! Mr President, I would like to request the support of the Parliament on behalf of the Government on T/12914. The aim is to set up the Hungarian Corvin Chain Board on the basis of the approval and decision of the legislation. Professor György Granasztói, who was the Prime Minister's advisor, was an envoy of Hungary, and I think his scientific work is also known before all of them, has played a decisive role in preparing and drafting the proposal, as well as the State Secretary Mariann Water East, who is the Secretary of State of the Ministry of Justice. I want to thank both of you for your preparatory work. There have been several and several debates in this House on the Corvin chain, and it is clear that these cannot be ignored in the debate on the bill. Here, allow me to quote a 1999 speech from our fellow Member Tamás Isépy to the House, who tried to beat the edge of criticism with a witty bonmot, which was still the Corvin chain's medal, perhaps louder than it is today. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. It is a description of the extraordinary merit that those who are most envious of it must also praise it,' said my fellow Member Tamás Isépy at the time, whose wit and preparation there is no doubt over the course of all these years, and the importance of this medal was precisely quoted. If you will allow me, I will use this opportunity to give you a brief overview of this, and I recommend to the legislator that the government had an obligation to turn to Parliament in addition to the government decrees on the Corvin chain, as there is a significant change in the award system with the establishment of the Corvin Chain Board. We are proposing to set up a public body, subject to a medal that will help the work of this medaled circle in Hungarian intellectual and scientific life in substance. Back in the 20s, Elek Petrovich, then director of the Museum of Fine Arts, was involved in an exciting committee, who, after the fall of the Monarchy and due to the severe crisis in Trianon, tried to adapt the state's system of awards to the new state reson in the fields of art and science. After all, the medal model, which, before 1918, in the territory of the Austro-Hungarian Monarchy and thus in Hungary, was the most significant of fine arts, science, education and culture, ceased to exist. After 1920, the Hungarian Medal of Merit may have been set up in 22 and in the second half of the 20's they thought, based on Klebelsberg's inspiration, about how to set up a system of awards that, through parties, is capable of establishing Hungarian scientific and intellectual performance, regardless of the approach and commitment. Klebelsberg said, "One of the unfortunate mistakes of Hungarian life is that our successor does not usually continue the work of his predecessor, he usually breaks off with the direction of it and tries to destroy his work more than once. That is why so many reformers remain in political life, and so many started but unfinished publications in the literary and scientific field. Both in 1999 and after 2010, or during the Antall administration, as József Antall also had the possibility of restoring the Corvin chain in his head, but basically in the late 20s and early 30s, when the award order was set up, the Corvin chain, the Corvin wreath and the associated badge, the aim was to create a system for assessing overall performance, completely independent of parties and across political boundaries. A medal and national recognition that rewards not a unique product, but the recognition of an oeuvre. Partly the appreciation of the past and partly the recognition of performance. In addition to our great national virtues, we Hungarians may have the biggest mistake in that we do not have the necessary cohesion, we do not have the necessary cohesion in personal terms, and there is frequent conflict between us, but we do not have the necessary cohesion in particular in physical terms. Somehow we cannot look at the questions in their great context, but we almost arbitraryly take out a question at times that comes into fashion, for no reason, and then we want to solve this question on our own, regardless of the related problems. Klebelsberg also justified a number of elements of his cultural policy by the early 30s with this idea, which, I think, is still sufficiently topical even today in the fields of science, politics or scientific achievements and artistic achievements. [[14.40]] The goal of the government was to have the most significant recognition of Hungarian scientific life after 2010 with the rehabilitation of the Corvin chain set aside outside the coast during the left-wing governments of 2002-2010, obviously linked to the period between 1920 and 1944 when this recognition was a symbol of Hungarian independence and Hungarian intellectual achievement. Why can't we call it a symbol of Hungarian independence? It is obvious that the reference to the name giver was of particular importance for the Hungarian spirit policy and cultural policy between the two world wars, since it is an unquestionable fact and the defining idea of the trends in centuries-old history is the acquisition and preservation of Hungarian national independence. Some people understood Hungary between the two world wars as the first opportunity for Hungary to be independent, and national sovereignty to prevail most after the collapse of the country in Mohács in 1526 and lost its independence, and could not actually recover it, according to some historical approaches, until the beginning of the 1920s. From this point of view, the most important period was the reign of Matthias Corvin, during which - we can safely say today, without exaggerating - Hungary was not only a great power but also a world power factor in the world's understanding at that time, since we are still two years ahead of Columbus when Matthias dies, so in the mid-1400s and 1490s, Hungary is not only a central European power with those objectives, but also a decisive power factor in the world known then. This unquestionable political, power and economic achievement is referred to by the name of the medal between the two world wars, and this is also referred to by the name of the medal set up in 2000 and the title of the medal given back to its place after 2010. The Hungarian national independence, the Hungarian national performance, the strengthening of Hungarian influence in Central and Eastern Europe, not only through the use of power tools, but also through intellectual tools. It cannot be forgotten and repeated today, if necessary, that we are not only able to maintain the territorial power of the Hungarian national community by means of power at this time, we are not only able to do so by armed means or by means of money, or by the power of economic influence, but we are primarily able to do so by intellectual force, since Hungary is able to do so in this period of the XV. After all, it is also the spiritual center of Central Europe in the middle of the century. When I think about the fact that the Italian Renaissance point is here most in Central Europe because of Matthias, Hungary is in a position to be one of the leaders of Europe and not to succeed in the leadership of Europe, I think it is a good model of the objective expected in scientific life. The other day I had a statistical yearbook about the period between the two world wars, and in it, for example, one of the statistics shows how many of the people living in Hungary went to university and how many went to high school and high school between the two world wars. The tangible result of the cultural policy in Klebelsberg, the ambitious scientific culture policy, and even, I can safely say, the theory of spiritual superiority is that in Hungary between the two world wars more people attended high school and went to colleges in proportion to the number of people in comparison to the total population. GDP was not close to Austrian GDP, perhaps it was close to it in the late 30s, but it never exceeded it, and we were at a disadvantage in a number of economic data, but what is the reform of the education system, the use of intellectual power, the advantage of our intellectual abilities, and in order to be able to gain an advantage in Europe, we can safely say this in any way. So I think that those who vote in favour of the Corvin chain award, who will support the work of the related intellectual, scientific, cultural work, the Corvin chain and those who have been decorated by a public body, will vote in favour of a good cause and their vote here in Parliament, given that this is not only about the name giving, but also about the medal itself. I think that, referring to Klebelsberg, and the emphasis on Corvin's idea, it is well shown how this fits into cultural policy efforts in a positive sense. Of course, the flaws in the system that I have told you are not being ignored; I am merely trying to draw attention to what the era has been able to say with such a medal. I would also like to say that it is clear that those who have received this recognition were chosen with great care at the time and ever since. At first, 60 people were given Corvin wreaths, illustrious lists, and 12 were given Corvin chains, which, after the territorial decisions made in the late 30s, was raised to 15 and the Corvin wreath was raised to 80. As a result, the award will be presented for the first time in 1931, and then the awardees will select those who will receive this recognition until 1943, and no doubt, the people who have created this award, regardless of which political group, social class or community they belong to, will receive this award for the first time in 1931. Despite the fact that the regime clearly emphasizes the strengthening of Christian Hungary among its objectives, older brothers and Jewish brothers will also receive a lot of this recognition if someone goes through this list, and I say this only because there are people not only in the medal, but also in the adoption of it, who are well-known today and even when everyone knew that they did not agree with a number of fundamental thesis of the regime, and yet they were ready to accept the symbol of the Corvin idea and the symbol of success in Hungarian national science and spiritual quality. National quality, national knowledge, and together we can have tradition and modernity - this was the message of the medal of the age, which I would definitely recommend to you. Undoubtedly, Klebelsberg received this medal in his own right, although others participated in the idea of the medal during this period, and others contributed to the birth of this medal. I would also like to remind you that at that time the Prime Minister's Office provided documentation for this recognition. In 1944, the building of the National Archives was bombed, so the documentation about the medal was unfortunately destroyed, so we cannot exactly reconstruct what happened to the medals after the award, but that is our premonition, and we know from recollections that the medals were obviously also a spiritual circle, and the current public body proposal is about having its own expression, form, and a source that separates it from the current government. Of course, there is a Corvin Chain Office in the framework of the Prime Minister's Office, within the government, but our aim is to ensure that, with the help of the law passed by Parliament, the independent work of this intellectual circle, the circle of honours, the possibility of forming opinions and the possibility of forming common taste. Tamás Isépy refers to Sándor Bálint in the Corvin chain debate, who, in 1948, as a Member of Parliament of the Democratic People's Party, when the Hungarian Parliament founded a Kossuth Prize, and the Hungarian Government on the occasion of the 100th anniversary, said in the debate: "I am convinced that the rewards will be awarded not in the spirit of the party coalition, but in the spirit of the universal national coalition. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. This is also the aim of the current prize, and this is what the prize winners represent. I mention the award winners in favour of the award founder Klebelsberg because I am convinced that they have received not only today's recognition but also the list of those who have previously received recognition. I specifically collected the list of those who received the Corvin wreath: Bajor Gizi, Béla Bartók, Zsolt Harsányi, Sándor Makkai theologian, painter Aba-Novák, writer Irén Gulácsy, poet László Mécs, writer Sándor Hevesi, writer, among others, Zoltán Kodály, philosopher Gyula Kornis, architect Kós of course, Áron Tamási, Ferenc Lehár, writer Lajos Zilahy. [[14.50]] Those who received the Corvin chain in the first round: Albert Szent-Györgyi, the only Nobel Prize winner who performed his activities in Hungary, for which he received a Nobel Prize, and Klebelsberg was also responsible for his university position in Szeged, and his research in Szeged led to the success of the Nobel Prize; Tibor Verebély, world-famous doctor, founder of a medical dynasty, one of the leading doctors and surgeons of Europe between the two world wars, also belonged to this area, who had some form of contact with the Corvin crown and the Corvin chain. I believe that the idea that this award must be rehabilitated must be restored, even if many criticisms have been given to the establishment or re-founding of the award in 1999, I believe that it is legitimate. What legitimizes the award? First and foremost, the prize winners. In the original period and in addition to Klebelsberg, Berzeviczy, who is an excellent historian and president of the Academy, besides Ferenc Herczeg, Jenő Hubay, a world-famous violinist Sándor Korányi, Bishop László Ravasz Reformed, Pál Teleki, will receive the award as a geologist and geographer, Gyula Zala and Gyula Wlassics, who, by the way, functioned as a lawyer and historian, since he was involved in the wording of the Criminal Code; later Árpád Károlyi, who was the most serious researcher of the Court Archives in Vienna, is also named as Cardinal Justinian Serédi, and joins the list Sándor Reményik, Jándor Pásztor, Gyula Rudnay, or Artúr Balogh. In 2001, when the Hungarian state first issues the Corvin chain, Ede Teller, János Balogh academic, economist Sándor Lamfalussy, historian János Lukács, historian Imre Makovecz and Magda Szabó will receive the award; later György Oláh, László Lovász, István Nemeskürty, Zoltán Kallós, Vilmos Zsigmond, Sándor Szokolay joins this circle. In 2012, the Corvin chain will be released again, where physicist Zsolt Bor, piarist István Jelenits, pianist Zoltán Kocsis, opera singer Éva Marton, doctor and brain researcher E. Vizi New Year's Eve will receive the award. I believe that this list makes the legitimacy of this award, along with the ones in the Corvin Wreath, unquestionable, and that the award has not been weakened, but has been strengthened by the staff decisions of the government and the donors regarding the award. Currently, among the members of the Corvin Chain Corps and those awarded in the Corvin chain, Éva Marton, Zsolt Bor, István Jelinits, Zoltán Kallós, László Lovász, János Lukács, György Oláh and Szilveszter Vizi live. The government's plan is to legislate the organisation of this circle by requesting and proposing a public body; of course, the Corvin Chain Office and the Corvin Chain Public Body Secretariat will provide an adequate infrastructure background for its operation. The aim is to enable these people to formulate messages with the help of this infrastructure, legal and physical infrastructure, which has a message value for spiritual life, for the scientific world, meaning a line ore and is able to reflect on the problems and challenges of today's times. I believe that the performance of Hungarian intellectual life is inseparable from the country's economic competitiveness, the performance and performance of the Hungarian spirit is closely linked to what Hungary is capable of. In the century. From this personality, the charisma, man cannot be missed. One of the strongest ranges of Hungarian science, the strongest range of Hungarian art and Hungarian creation, is that the creators, researchers and performance are not a faceless crowd, not an institute, an office, a research group, but Hungarian scientists have always been actively involved in shaping Hungarian public life. Albert Szent-Györgyi - just as we mentioned it among the Corvin-chainers - is an excellent example of how important it was not only for the introduction of English-Saxon behaviors, scientific models, educational culture, but also for the participation of Hungarian intellectuals in public life. I think that we should expect those in the Corvin chain today to take a stand on the current issues of Hungarian life, thus giving direction to the actors of public life and politicians as well. This is why I think it is important that if we create worthy conditions for the self-expression and operating conditions of the highest Hungarian scientific recognition and the highest Hungarian state recognition. It is related to this that I would also like to request the help of the Parliament and inform the legislature that a property, the Róheim villa, which is a property under 45 Hermina Road, will be made available immediately to this public body with the necessary resources to renovate it. The villa and this object, this building is symbolic for several reasons: first of all, it gives a specific interpretation of the Hungarian compromise, when, after the emancipation law of 1868, Hungary's success is inseparable from the fact that a cooperation between the Jewish community in Hungary and the political and economic leaders in Hungary is created, with a I believe that the country's success from this symbiosis, the success of Budapest, the Hungarian science, the success of the Hungarian economy, is inseparable from this cooperation. Perhaps the symbolic expression of this is that on October 31, 1918, István Tisza, who rented the lower floor of this house, was killed in this house, and Mr Róheim lived on the upper level, he was a player in Hungarian economic and commercial life. It is well known that the Hungarian success of the Austro-Hungarian Monarchy has played a decisive role in the social groups with which the Hungarian economic and social leaders have been able to agree or agree. There was an important role to be played for Hungarian Jews, and the inseparable and important assumption of Hungarian success is that cooperation has been established not only through emancipation, but also through legal guarantees. I believe that this cooperation was unbroken until the autumn of 1918, and the Corvin chain is a good example of the fact that in the 20-30s there were people in this country who saw the country's success in continuing this journey and strengthening cooperation. This is inseparable from Hungarian scientific performance and the performance of the Hungarian economy. In the 20s, after Trianon, Hungary was able to organize a functioning state from the ruins in a few years - how many countries lost two thirds of their territory and economic resources, and how many countries were able to recover from this? In the 20-30s, until the political national socialist line was strengthened, Hungary was considered by the leading world powers and considered to be able to stay on its feet and who has legitimate needs partly through its achievements - and in many cases this is manifested by the performance of science, culture, such as the international recognition of Aba-Novák, the international performance of Hungarian doctors or the Nobel Prize of Szent-Györgyi. There are dozens of international awards that the Hungarian spirit receives in the 20-30s. I think that if Hungary sees science and spirit as a resource, the potential of spirit as a resource, and this is a country that does not have sufficient economic resources, because there is less capital in this country than where there was no communism for 50 years, there is less industrial resources, natural mineral resources in this country than in countries with which we have to compete, we cannot rely on anything in this country other than our mental capacity, and it is an important message that at the heights of the spirit we provide the right conditions for creation and self-expression. Therefore, we would like to renovate this property, make it the spiritual and physical center of this group, this medaled circle. With the public body, we would like to eliminate the semi-solutions typical of Hungarians and the unworthy conditions typical of our structures. I would also like to say that I am sure that our colleagues, the members of the government here in Parliament, will have to listen again to the criticisms expressed in the 1990s or later years, but the Hungarian performance, the Hungarian intellectual, scientific and artistic performance, will always depart from the regime in which it is born. Of course, some say that this is inseparable, but personal performance, a personal oeuvre, the life's work of Dohnányi, the life's work of Hubay, the life's work of Szent-Györgyi, the life's work of Klebelsberg or, where appropriate, the physic performance of Zsolt Bor, the performance of Éva Marton, the performance of E. Szilveszter Vizi, János Lukács, György Oláh, Zoltán Kallós is not dependent on political regime. That is why I ask my fellow opposition Members to be generous in recognising the intellectual, scientific and artistic performance of people who have made this country great, regardless of the system they have lived in over the last hundred years, with support and parliamentary debate. Thank you so much for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] [[15.00]]
u2016-11-23-136	Thank you very much, Minister. The main speaker's speeches will now take place within a 15-15-minute time frame. The lead speaker of the Fidesz Group is Mr Robert Balázs Simon. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2016-11-23-137	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Minister, Ladies and gentlemen, Zoltán Kocsis, one of the most influential artists in the past 40 years of Hungarian music, who gained inexorable merit in the Hungarian classical and contemporary music presentation in Hungary and abroad, took over the Corvin chain in 2012 from President János Áder, Prime Minister Viktor Orbán and László Kövér, President of the Parliament. He then thanked me with these words of appreciation:. If this medal were part of the attempt to restore the Horthy era, of course I would not accept it. However, I would like to believe that today, in 2012, such attempts are timeless, pointless, and ridiculous, as a sharp contrast to progressive thinking, an advanced sense of justice and a commitment to culture marked by the name of Mátyás Hunyadi. I believe that I can make a decision to contribute to the need for social cooperation today. They are beautiful and true words, and they are even more timely in 2016. I started with this quote because I would like to prevent the attacks of my fellow opposition Members, who will certainly take this opportunity to talk about the fact that the medal is linked to the name of Miklós Horthy. The medal was also the idea of Kunó Klebelsberg, who was also one of the key ideasists, who was himself known as a highly educated minister. He was also named after a ruler who was engaged in a serious mechanistic activity and was understandingly proponent of culture and art. I would also like to point out that a number of excellent people have received this medal, to whom Minister has already referred in his exposé, to whom we can all be proud. Without completeness, I would also highlight some names: Ernő Dohnányi, Ferenc Herczeg, Sándor Korányi, Pál Teleki, Sándor Reményik, Gyula Rudnay, Béla Bartók, Zoltán Kodály, Albert Szent-Györgyi, Ferenc Molnár, Gizi Bajor. And I could list a long line of people, with whom we can now be proud to be a community, that is what all progressive Hungarians can do. The name from Mátyás Corvin is therefore capable of recognising the outstanding activities in the field of Hungarian science, culture and education in a satisfactory and worthy manner. Ladies and gentlemen, The Hungarian Corvin chain is therefore given to people who have made a special contribution to culture, science, and the improvement of Hungarian public thinking. Unlike the holders of prized, other medals, they form a body. The bill before us provides for the transformation of the Hungarian Corvin Chain Board into a public body and lays down the most basic rules necessary for the functioning of the body. The public body will be established on 1 January 2017. The rules on the tasks of the panel do not change substantially, they are laid down in law because of the status of a public body instead of a government decree. The order of the medal does not change, the Hungarian Corvin Chain Office continues to propose it, and the Board takes an opinion on the proposal of the office. The Board therefore acts as a public benefit entity, with the fact that the establishment of the Supervisory Board will not be compulsory. It will receive the resources necessary to carry out its public tasks in the form of budget support from the central budget, but will not become part of public finances. The public tasks to be performed in the future can ensure a strong representation of the values of Hungarian and universal culture, and strengthen the respect for the traditions of Hungarian art life. Public body operation can contribute to the quality of performance of special public tasks, flexible and easy to adapt to current challenges due to its organisational and operational characteristics. On the basis of the proposal, as has been said, the Róheim villa will be owned by the Board and will be refurbished by the Board. After the establishment of the public body, and after the establishment of the basic organisational and operational framework, the body is fully involved, thus taking responsibility for the performance of the public tasks. I think it is in our common interest to ensure, in the spirit of the Fundamental Law, the additional conditions necessary for the effective functioning of the public body. [[Dr. István Hiller, vice-president of the Parliament, takes the chair.]] You can find a decent home in the building and show your own image of value-creating work and the role of spiritual integration. It is expected that the patina building will come to life not only as a monument, but also symbolically as a spiritual home for the arts, and will represent the government's national commitment to creating value and supporting art. I note that the former Prime Minister of Hungary lived on the ground floor, Count István Tisza, and on the first floor with Samu Roheim's family and staff, and at the same time the Corvin Chain Board was the seat of the building. I began my speech with the words of Zoltán Kocsis, and I conclude with the thoughts of Kunó Klebelsberg, quoted in the excellent expozee of Minister János Lázár, which reads as follows: "For us Hungarians, besides our great national virtues, perhaps our biggest mistake is that we do not have the necessary cohesion. We do not have the necessary cohesion from a personal point of view, and there are frequent conflicts between us, but we do not have the necessary cohesion in particular in terms of materiality. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Ladies and gentlemen, What can I say as a closing after these thoughts? It means that this cohesion, i.e. a consensual force, should finally be shown within us, in Hungarians, for example, now, at the trial and then at the adoption of this bill. As the lead speaker of the Fidesz fraction, our faction fully supports the adoption of the bill. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause from the pro-government ranks.]]
u2016-11-23-138	Thank you very much. Welcome. Our next speaker is Mr László Varga, lead speaker of the MSZP. Here you go. [[Dr. Laszlo Varga's microphone isn't working.]] Please note that Congressman Simon has already finished and that Congressman Varga will begin.
u2016-11-23-139	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to point out in advance at the beginning of my speech, because I have been referred to many times, let it be clear that the criticism that I am going to give is not to the individual medals or to some of the medals in the '30s. This is not what this criticism is about, however, which has been said several times over the past decade and a half in connection with the Corvin chain, because there are, in fact, quite a number of people with oeuvres, people with scientific work, public figures, artists who are important to all Hungarians, and I think their performance is indisputable. However, as much as the Minister avoided it in the Expo, we must say that in 1930 Governor Miklós Horthy founded the Corvin chain and, of course, the Corvin crown, which was a lower degree. [[György Szilágyi: Who didn't know? So?]] Either way, that is true, and I think that the resurrection of this by the first Orbán government was not, in fact, a desire to seek consensus in the then public life. Despite the numerous debates surrounding the Corvin chain at the time, as you referred to, Minister, and here in Parliament there were statements of support and opposition in this regard, the Corvin chain continued to exist between 2002 and 2010, although no other awards were donated during this period. On 30 May 2012, new awards were handed over to non-negotiable participants. Let me not mention Éva Marton, I could talk a lot about her here, I think her life's work is out of the question; Zsolt Bor, physicist Zoltán Kocsis, recently deceased pianist István Jelenits, theologian and pharmacologist Vizy E. New Year's Eve. So I can say again that this criticism is not for the members who are currently running out of eight, but I think that if it were really a prize of the highest standing, such an award of the Hungarian scientific, intellectual and social elite, the first Orbán government wanted to create, it would not have sought an award in this historical era. [[15.10]] By the way, as the Minister said, I would like to live in a country where it could have been created. This is not Hungary today. [[Intercoms from Jobbik's benches.]] I can hear the reviews. I do not think, of course, that one-sided prizes should be awarded for other types of eras or, where appropriate, the opposite edge; simply national consensus and minimums should be sought. You do not seek this; some people do not seek it in a more extreme way, and say they speak in such a speech, and you simply make this type of proposal. There is not much to justify, of course, the transformation into a public body; I would like to continue my criticism with this, it will mean additional costs, I see, and what we see is that the donation of the Róheim villa to the Corvin Chain Office and the Corvin Chain Board is not a good symbol in this respect. The Minister has put this in a positive context, and I cannot live this way. We probably have a completely different opinion, but I still have to put it on the table, that there was a political player, Prime Minister and former Speaker, who, by the way, put the fight against universal and secret suffrage in one of his political struggles, and, by the way, acted against the organised work at the time, when he acted violently. I understand that his work is important and valuable to many of you, even though it is controversial, but I accept that, but I ask you that when we look for symbolic places with the intention of the national minimum for certain public bodies, let us try to find symbolic places that are symbolic for all Hungarians. I don't want you to come up with something like this the other way around, which violates your sensitivity in this story, but I definitely refuse to do it. I hope that there will be a public life and a political life in Hungary that will once give rise to real national minimums. In any case, according to previous statements, the members of the MMA will also be able to take part in this villa, so György Fekete can actually use it and his academy can use this villa, which, according to my information, will be renewed from approximately one billion forints. I think there might be a better place for similar sources. Overall, however much you do not agree with this, if the real consensus search and the national minimum were to aim at creating this story and the above-mentioned awards, then it would probably be necessary to establish a new one, but of course Hungary and the future of Hungary should be put on new consensus. I can see you're not looking for these, and I'm so sorry about that. I would like to believe in a country where such consensus can actually be sought. Our position is therefore clear: we do not support the proposal in this form. Thank you, Mr. President.
u2016-11-23-140	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, It's time for the lead speaker of Jobbik. Congressman István Szávay has the floor. Here.
u2016-11-23-141	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr. President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, The Jobbik Movement for Hungary considers it particularly important to appreciate to the furthest extent our compatriots who are lasting in the fields of Hungarian education, culture, science and art, as they gain inexhaustible merit in Hungarian cultural, scientific and artistic development both at home and abroad, thus increasing the reputation of our country in the world. This is why we supported the bill allowing the Corvin chain to be re-donated in 2011. The award was founded in 1930 by our brave Governor Miklós Horthy in Nagybánya. I do not know why this could not have been said, or to whom it was not clear that I should refer to my Socialist fellow Member. The Governor founded this medal for the purpose of rewarding the permanent creators of Hungarian culture, science and art, who contributed by their activities to the rise of our nation. It is no coincidence that we will find the Count Klebelsberg Kunó Minister of Religion and Public Education, building 5,000 classrooms and teaching homes in three years, even in the disastrous national circumstances of the 20s, among the first awards of the Corvin chain in 1930. He deserved a Corvin chain in the 30s and in the beginning of the 40s among others was author Ferenc Herczeg, Reformed Bishop László Ravasz, historian Bálint Hóman, poet Sándor Reményik or composer Ferenc Lehár. In addition, Lehar received this high-ranking medal in 1943 by constantly harassing his wife because of her Jewish origin, her younger brother and Antal's comments about the German occupation of Belgium. So Karakan stood up for the cultural politicians of the age for the composer and his family. Then there was a long pause in the history of the Corvin chain donation, and in 2001 the first Orbán government revived it, but after the 2002 government change, the award was no longer handed over, although it was not abolished, according to the then Chancellor, this award of scientific, artistic and cultural appreciation caused Horthy to feel after the Horthy era among left-wing and liberal intellectuals. I am very sorry, however, but I also consider the critical and offensive attitude of the MSZP to be very typical; I am very sorry, my fellow socialists, that you are still unwilling to stand by national affairs. You demand a national consensus, but you are the one who is breaking up this national consensus. It still looks that way, and I am very sorry that you are still unable to cross the red shadow of your anti-national ancestors. [[Dr. László Varga: Shame on you! Shame on you.]] We were therefore very pleased that in 2011 the Parliament decided to re-donate the medal. This is a pleasure because through the award we can even more appreciate our scientists and artists who do the most for the survival and development of Hungarian culture, and also because they have put one of the great initiatives of the Horthy era within today's framework. Although Minister Lazarus has designated all governments, including the current Fidesz government, as a regime, I certainly do not wish to speak out against this, but I do believe that the use of this term in the Horthy era is not necessarily accurate and historical. Dear Parliament, However, the 2011 CCII on the use of the coat of arms and flag of Hungary and its state medals. Law created the Hungarian Corvin Chain Board, which is formed by the Medals themselves, but the function of the body is still only 86/2012. It was defined by Government Decree No. The aim of the bill before us is therefore to regulate the tasks and functioning of the Hungarian Corvin Chain Board, which has been regulated only at regulation level, as well as the values displayed and maintained by the body, at a higher legal level, and, in addition, according to the draft legislation, the Board is the 2006 LXV. It is transformed into a public body as defined by law, so its tasks are now becoming a statutory public function. The Jobbik Movement for Hungary welcomes this, of course, because it is thus stated that it is a public task to support and reward Hungarian national education and culture, as well as the arts and sciences. It is also important, of course, that the Hungarian Corvin Chain Board will be entitled to budget support as a public body. In this regard, however, it would be a pleasure to clarify the exact amount of resources involved, so I would ask the Secretary of State, if possible, to provide some information on this in his closet. The list of public tasks of the panel in the bill practically repeats the tasks set out in the current government decree. However, lastly, there is a new point that sounds like this on the basis of the panel: . It can run a scholarship programme to support people with outstanding talent in their field. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I think that if there was nothing new in this proposal but this one point, that would be a huge step forward. It cannot be emphasized enough how important it is to embrace talented young Hungarian scientists, artists, nurses of Hungarian culture and to help them as effectively as possible. [[15.20]] Therefore, we respectfully ask the Hungarian Corvin Chain Corps, composed of the Hungarian Corvin chain's awards, to really use their right as an opportunity in the bill and indeed to establish such scholarship programmes. In this regard, of course, I offer the support and assistance of Jobbik's experts with a good heart. As the former founder of the Tisza István Friendship Society, I would also like to express my joy at the Róheim villa. I believe, unlike the Socialist Party, that this body will indeed be placed in a worthy place. I am very pleased that the Róheim villa, for example, has not been stolen by some government-wide oligarch for some vague and mysterious purpose or reason. Over the past few years, I have attended a memorial event and a memorial event on 31 October. On October 31, 1918, in this villa, the spiritual predecessors of the Socialists murdered István Tisza, Prime Minister of Hungary, who, as Prime Minister of Hungary, I believe, may be such a consensual point that we can approach his memory in this way. Dear Parliament, On the basis of what I have said so far, it is certainly not a question that Jobbik will support the bill before us, which increases the prestige of the Corvin chain by placing the award established by our Governor Miklós Horthy higher than ever in the Hungarian legal system. We hope that the Hungarian Corvin Chain Corps, which operates as a public body, will complete its mission and contribute to the flourishing of Hungarian culture and science at least as high as that of the school policy in Klebelsberg in the thirties, when scientists who later gained world fame in Hungarian schools and universities learned, taught and researched. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik. It's a rare applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-11-23-142	Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. No independent Member has applied for a speech. Mr László Varga, Member of the MSZP, asked for a two-minute speech. Here.
u2016-11-23-143	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Very briefly. We have not come any closer to the national consensus on this issue again. I tried to respect your sensitivity, if any, regarding István Tisza. I judge his historical role differently. Nevertheless, I regret every human life taken, including the workers who were shot at that time, because they fought for their universal suffrage. This cannot historically be something I could accept or make the subject of a national consensus. That's what I've made clear. Mr Congressman, my good fellow Member said that he did not wish to occupy any other national minimum in this way, except what he thought he did. This feels like a problem to me. I see that Fidesz and Jobbik have found each other in this, but I still do not give up my hope that later we can get to the point of creating awards, awards for real intellectual, social and public achievements in Hungary that reflect a real national minimum, all of us Hungary. Thank you, Mr. President.
u2016-11-23-144	Thank you very much. As a representative asking for a normal word, Mr György Szilágyi, representative of Jobbik is next. Here.
u2016-11-23-145	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. For the first time, I would respond to László Varga, with whom, for example, we think in the same way in the field of sport, and we often strengthen each other in our speeches. But it seems that in areas like culture and history, we are not on the same platform. Mr President, first of all, you have repeatedly mentioned that you would propose a medal for a completely different national minimum. Why don't you give me an example, 'cause I'd like to know what you mean, like, in this context? [[Dr. László Varga intervenes.]] - if you don't know, then it's just a ground-bottom ball, a flying thing. The other is that, fortunately, Mr Member, let us say, Miklós Horthy's historical role in Hungarian history is not determined by political parties, and political parties are not expressing their views on it, because if that were the case, we would certainly have a very sharp difference of opinion, but it could also differ as a private person. The other is that you're talking about the national minimum. You know, the basis of the national minimum is that there should be no political actors, no political parties who can defile our history and our historical greats, and better or only try to frame, reduce or distort their historical role. That would be the basis of the historical minimum. The basis of the historical minimum would be that rationally, considering certain historical roles, certain historical eras, and indeed not unilaterally, but by examining the possibilities and situations at that time, we should judge the work of a historical personality and the role it has played in Hungary. In my opinion, Miklós Horthy, as Governor of Hungary, has been one of the last statesmen in the past. I wish there were more statesmen who were so important to the country's growth and the country's progress and development, as well as the issue of Hungary as a whole, as important as he was at that time! Turning to the bill: the appreciation of science and culture is one of the most important things to have in a country's life. The creation of appropriate bodies related to science and culture and the people working in those bodies have an important role to play in the development of each society, each nation, can play an important role in the development and development of these areas and in preserving its values in the past, thus preserving and respecting our cultural and scientific values. These are very important questions, since those who do not care enough about their past do not appreciate their past, do not value the values of the past, do not have a future. We believe that Hungary does have a future, and that there is much to be learned in this struggle and in this way from its past, and that there is much to be learned from its history. So it is important to have such a body, especially if it not only becomes a symbolic body - and we feel that at the moment the desire to be not just a symbolic body, but also to do real work as a determining public body of cultural and scientific life, i.e. to give real guidance in the field of society, a social and spiritual direction - because if this body will speak on a matter in the future, then it will certainly have a weight to say. If this body stands for scientific work and scientific development in the future, then it is certain that it will have to deal with the government in question, be it any government of political colour. So here we can create a body with very serious experience, a very serious spirit, which can really speak in a strong way in various cases and can really help. In which this body can play an important role, I must also say this: in Hungary, we need to keep looking for points of break-out that this country can develop with break-out points. I consider the Hungarian grey stock, the Hungarian spirit and the Hungarian spirit to be one of our biggest outbursts, because if we exploit the social and intellectual capacities properly, then we have a lot of resources and a lot of ammunition. Many times in the past, by the way, I think that we have left wonderful opportunities to lose, we have gone through wonderful opportunities precisely because we did not have those bodies, we did not have the organisations that would have embraced these scientific developments, the results of scientific research, they would have helped and carried on, although this is a very important thing. Let's just think about innovation. If innovation is to be defined, for example, it is perhaps the best definition for innovation if we say that knowledge is put to work. I think that this should be strengthened as much as possible in Hungary, and this should be developed as much as possible in Hungary, and for this innovation, this intellectual development, this scientific development can be absolutely contributed by such a public body, which can contribute absolutely to the work of its members. For this reason, as my fellow Member István Szávay said, the Jobbik Movement for Hungary welcomes the establishment of this public body, welcomes these efforts, and we will support it with our vote, so that it can do normal work and we can accept this bill. Thank you so much for listening. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2016-11-23-146	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, I'll ask the Members present, if anyone else would like to speak. Congressman István Szávay, Jobbik, here you go. [[15.30]]
u2016-11-23-147	Thank you very much. Dear Congressman Varga, Let's continue this debate a little more calmly or evenly, but allow me to respond to one or two of your thoughts. You were talking about a lack of consensus, but it would be easier to discuss or argue on this issue, Congressman, if you had made any alternatives here. Clearly, you have nothing else against this whole story but that the predecessor of this medal was founded in the '30s and the Horthy era, because it could not say much more, and otherwise, the arguments were the same, or around that, were also the arguments that the socialist and free Democrat MEPs said about it back then. Only then would it have been nice to hear something about who to name it from or how, or in what other building, let's say, the center of this body. I do not think that this is such a big problem now, regardless of whether, obviously, the Horthy era is judged differently by my fellow Member - obviously. However, in the Horthy era, there was not a one-party repressive dictatorship, unlike, for example, the last 40 years, which in the past 40 years, the MSZP and its predecessors did not consider universal suffrage as important as you have just said. I mean, István Tisza's view of the role may be a subject of debate in many ways, but I think it is difficult in Hungarian history to find a single statesman or a politician or a leader who, in relation to his person and work, can not be seriously criticised by posterity. Whether it's our greatest, Széchenyi and Kossuth or anyone else. I believe that István Tisza is clearly a positive player in the history of Hungary in view of his entire oeuvre. In addition, a martyred Prime Minister, a number of Hungarian prime ministers, died of martyrdom. What Tisza thought about universal suffrage, let us say, in 1912, when it was a blood-red Thursday, I am sure that is what my fellow Member thought, and we will deal with this issue in the context of his own age. In fact, I would add that we still do not agree on general suffrage, because Jobbik has said on several occasions that it does not support this type of universal suffrage. We believe that this could and should be linked to a certain culture censorship. Well, especially at the beginning of the century, where universal suffrage practically did not exist anywhere in Europe. Therefore, it refers to a government action against a claim that should be dealt with in a retrospective manner rather than in terms of age. The fact that, in the first half of the 1900s, suffrage was tried to be limited in such a way that at least those who do not have any political knowledge, who do not have any wealth, but a bigger problem - wealth is not the primary issue here, by the way - were in many cases unable to read and write and participate in the elections and choose the leaders of the country, I do not consider this to be a problem. This has been a rather long development in Europe's countries with much more democratic traditions than we have. Congressman, let me tell you that in Switzerland, women were given suffrage only in the early 1970s; that was the case. So it's a long process. To highlight this one as a negative from István Tisza's oeuvre, I think it is unfortunate. On the other hand, the intellectuals, historians and all sorts of tellers in your spiritual lunar court tend to view history or certain historical personalities as having to look at the entire course of life. If you have to look at someone's entire life course, then I think that this will also hold up with István Tisza. But once again, we would have liked it if you could have come up with any other alternative to this. I believe that this proposal, which the government has drawn up and put before us, sets out the right, right, good goals, and I believe that this is also correct in its symbolism, and does not point to an era that would be completely unsuitable in Hungarian history. I am very sorry that your criticisms have practically been built around this issue. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2016-11-23-148	Thank you very much. In fact, I am very interested in your views on the various actors in Hungarian history, but as the leading president, I am obliged to draw your attention to the fact that this is not the agenda for judging the individual historical actors, but I quote:, the general debate of the bill on the Hungarian Corvin Chain Board. If you want to please me, then continue the current debate, if you want to comply with the house rules, then you should talk about the Hungarian Corvin Chain Board, and in this way I will give the floor to MEP László Varga, MSZP. [[Applause, applause.]]
u2016-11-23-149	Thank you, Mr. President. In other situations, he has an excellent sense of solving the most tense moments. Thank you for that, by the way. Ladies and gentlemen of the State Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, Accordingly, I will obviously shorten what I said or what I intended to do. First of all, I would like to conclude that I am reacting in two minutes, because everyone may allow me to argue that I may then argue with Jobbik's position on cultural censorship in my work in Eastern Hungary, so that they want to reduce suffrage, so much so that they have not yet come up in politics on the front. What I've seen is that they're trying to catch certain groups by all means. I don't agree with that, by the way, let me tell you, I believe in universal and secret suffrage, and so does my party. I would like to say briefly to you that we will not be able to pin this story on; not on this particular case, but on the mood that is in this country in general. I think, in some ways, we are politicalizing at moments of mercy in these years, but we might as well be watching the past decades. Despite all the difficulties, we would be able to establish such consensus. The unfortunate feature of Hungarian history is that they weren't very similar before, and there were political groups elsewhere looking for prosperity, and where they defeated each other and where they were more difficult to live together. For example, I can give you the Spanish example, where victims of civil war are jointly remembered by right- and left-wing people. This kind of tragedy has affected almost all families there, and perhaps national memory has, to say the least, gone a little beyond making current party political battles on the right and left. I hope that someday we will be able to remember our history together and find national minimums. Thank you, Mr. President.
u2016-11-23-150	Thank you very much. Congressman Robert Simon, Fidesz representative. Here you go.
u2016-11-23-151	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. I was just thinking about two short thoughts. It has already been said in the Minister's exposé that the Kossuth Prize was founded in 1948. If we look at the history of the Kossuth Prize, which was donated by the Council of Ministers until 1990, then we can see that initially people and groups in the field of science, art and socialist production could have received it. My thought relates only to how good it is that today there are no awards or awards for socialist production. The other is of a completely different nature: a few years ago, the World Economy of Week conducted an interview with Professor György Granasztói, in which the journalist made this question or comment: "No doubt they do not really like this medal on the left. The professor replied to this: "Now there is an opportunity to consolidate the situation, and the resuscitation of the Corvin chain can contribute to this. By the way, if you look at the medals, the members of the board, you can see that at the time of their selection there was no political issue, let's say György Oláh Nobel Prize winner scientist, cameraman Vilmos Zsigmond or mathematician László Lovász can't be classified in any of the camps. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2016-11-23-152	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, I will ask if anyone else wishes to take the opportunity to speak. [[There's no candidate.]] I'm gonna say no. As no one has made any further comments, the general debate is closed. I will ask the author, Mr Secretary of State, if he wishes to respond. Here you go, Secretary Csepreghy. [[15.40]]
u2016-11-23-153	Mr President, Thank you very much. Although Minister gave a full, comprehensive picture of the Corvin Prize and the Corvin chain's past, and gave a serious insight into the fact that, when this award was established, it was based on what intellectual heritage they had, and I think that perhaps this debate, which was formed earlier, with the involvement of either Congressman Varga or Congressman Savay, might have an interesting point in Hungary's history, and this could be the consensus point. C.E., where the name of the prize comes from. After all, I believe that all politicians who claim to be left- and right-wing politicians acknowledge King Matthias' performance, and acknowledge that the period, as Minister mentioned, was indeed the period of prosperity of Hungarian history when Hungary was a decisive factor in the power of Central and Eastern Europe. And he took this responsibility not only in dealing with current public policy issues, but also in doing what a leading authority must do in order to improve scientific life and culture. And another point that might help us to reach consensus, in that, I think that the political elite, who are sitting here, has a significant role to play, because, although there are points of break between the parties in Parliament on the basis of value for many issues, I really believe that politics is, in some respects, a proactive genre where we can launch significant social processes. And when we talk about this award, it can also provide a consensus or another basis for consensus, that we not only take into account the name of the fee and the background behind the name, but also the person of the prize winners, which almost every speaker here has mentioned. And with regard to the person of the prize winners, we find countless people who cannot be on a platform with each other based on world-view considerations, yet today any speaker mentioned these award winners, everyone spoke of them as members and representatives of the Hungarian nation, to whom we can all be proud regardless of the political, philosophical viewpoint. I think that these are two points that do establish that the Corvin chain can be the scientific and cultural recognition of the Hungarian nation, which indeed has historical traditions, but it really gives us the opportunity to achieve this political consensus, and this political generation will also have lasting value for decades, which is a lasting value in the fact that we have actually managed to move towards national reconciliation. I ask Members to consider this idea and, in the spirit of this thought, I ask the Parliament to support the bill. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-11-23-154	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, I would like to inform you that the amendment proposals can be submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. Dear Parliament, A political debate on the causes of labour shortages and the necessary steps will follow, initiated by Bernadett Szél and his fellow Members. The motion to initiate the political debate V/12673. was given to them. Dear Parliament, I call on the notary to explain the course of the political debate. Mr. Messenger!
u2016-11-23-155	Dear Parliament, I'll let you know the course of the debate. First, a statement from the representative of the Government will be made for a total period of 40 minutes. The speakers of each political group will then speak in 15-15 minutes, and the first independent Member will be able to speak. The remaining time frame will then be open to further speeches by its representatives. Finally, the representative of the Government will respond in 20 minutes to what has been said in the debate.
u2016-11-23-156	Dear Parliament, Allow me to remind you of the main rules of the time-frame debate. The speaking time of the member of the Government who spoke during the debate is expected to be in the time of the pro-government factions. In the meantime, two-minute speeches should be included in the timeframe, with the exception of responding to personal concerns. Point of order speeches are not included in the time frame. On the meeting room information board, interested parties can monitor the use of time frames. Before we begin the debate, I would like to ask the notary to explain the time frame. Here you go.
u2016-11-23-157	Dear Parliament, I would like to announce that the Fidesz, MSZP, Jobbik and LMP groups have initiated a two-fold increase in their timeframe, so the time frame is divided into 164 minutes for the Fidesz Group, 92 minutes for the MSZP Group, 38 minutes for the KDNP Group, 82 minutes for the Jobbik Group, 48 minutes for the LMP Group and 9 minutes for the independent Members. The time limits provided for the factions include the 15-15 minutes lead speakers.
u2016-11-23-158	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, First, the government's debate will take place in a 40-minute timeframe. I give the floor to Mr. Péter Cseresnyés, Secretary of State of the Ministry of National Economy, please.
u2016-11-23-159	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, On our debate today, we will exchange views on an important issue for all of us: employment and related areas. However, it is also important to examine where we started and where we have come from in the last decade, with the knowledge that, although we have achieved significant results, the work has not yet been completed, because in order to catch up with the more developed states in the EU, we still have a lot to do. I am sure we are all aware that competition for labour is not only a problem for Hungary. We are facing a trend in a major area of Europe that has emerged from the recovery after the global crisis. Employment levels have increased across Europe, while unemployment has been reduced, and the natural consequence of this process is the emergence of competition for labour in some areas in parallel with these trends. In addition, difficulties are compounded by the fact that this phenomenon is characteristic of the same professions almost everywhere, with few doctors, IT experts, engineers and, above all, good professionals, skilled workers. This situation also naturally strengthened international labour movement. After strengthening the work-based society since 2010 and showing up in employment indicators, similar processes have taken place in Hungary in recent years. We are moving at a good pace towards full employment, as a result of government measures taken in recent years, the employment rate of the 20-64-year-old population is now above the EU average, which has not been seen since 1990. The unemployment rate in Hungary is now the fourth lowest among the 28 Member States. Unemployment of 4.9 per cent is not only better than the EU average, but also lower than the world average rate of around 6 per cent. This has not been the case in more than two and a half decades since 1990. At the same time, the competitive situation in the labour market in Hungary is not as serious as in other countries. We are witnessing a natural phenomenon generated by a fundamentally positive process that creates new challenges for all of us. The solution to this situation is not only the task of employment policy because of the complexity of the issue. The government is constantly monitoring not only domestic but also major international trends. We know the challenges we face. We are aware that in order to maintain the growth rate of the Hungarian economy, it is necessary to facilitate the more efficient operation of domestic businesses. This obviously includes the need to manage the situation caused by a reduction in labour reserves by government means and to respond in a timely manner to processes affecting the functioning of the economy. We therefore see clearly the main trends, and we also know what complex processes have resulted from today's situation. Therefore, I can safely say that the news in the domestic press is exaggerating the phenomenon of temporary labour shortages in the country. We must admit that where employment is high - and it is - and unemployment is low - and that is true - there is, sooner or later, barriers to the extensive growth of the economy. The market responds to the increase in labour demand by raising wages, which seduces competition workers or absorbs labour from other countries. This is how competition can become global, and no country can separate itself from it. [[15.50]] Of course, we are also aware that the inclusion of inactive people in the labour market is also a possible way of reducing the gap that arises. We have also taken serious steps to this effect in the past period, but we need to see that this is a very long process, the result of which is expected much later. In this context, unfortunately, I must also note that the attitude of the employer is not always supportive of the employment of people who are long away from the labour market. It should be noted that for many years, especially during the Gyurcsány-Bajnai administration, employment policy was not about success stories; those who worked in this area often fought for results that seemed hopeless. Now, however, we can finally say that we are approaching full employment, which is gradually creating new challenges for us. Dear Parliament, As a confirmation of what has been said above, let us look at the facts. From the second half of 2013, the Hungarian economy was on a long-term growth path, with one of the main labour market benefits of continuously increasing employment in the market sector, increasing demand for labour, rising wages and reducing unemployment. According to the latest data from the third quarter of 2016, the number of employees increased to 4 million 391 thousand, while the number of unemployed fell to 226 thousand. Employment has never been this high since 1990 and unemployment is so low in Hungary. Between 2010-16, the economic activity of the population aged 15-64 increased at the fastest rate in Hungary from among the countries of the European Union, and we are also among the first four countries in terms of employment growth and unemployment reduction. The key factor in increasing employment was the increase in the number of jobs in the market. Two thirds of the employment growth of around 680,000 people since the change of government in 2010 took place in the domestic competition sector, precisely 460 thousand. The latest figures show that the total increase of 126 thousand people in the primary labour market, essentially in the competition sector, has taken place in the last year. On the other hand, the number of public workers and commuters abroad has stagnated and even decreased slightly. All of this can be seen as very positive developments in the Hungarian labour market. The employment rate has improved from 54,6 percent to 61.1 percent since 2010 and 72.1 percent in the 20-64 age group, corresponding to a very dynamic increase of 13 percentage points. This level of employment is already above the EU average. Domestic unemployment was higher than the EU average during the Gyurcsány-Bajnai government, and as a result of the turn of employment following the change of government, it was on a downward path, while the combined unemployment of the 28 Member States remained on the rise until 2013 following the previous trend. In 2013, Hungarian unemployment was already lower than the EU average. The EU average unemployment rate in August 2016 was 8.2 percent. Hungary is the fourth country with the lowest unemployment rate of 4.9 percent in the European Union, with lower unemployment rates in the Czech Republic, Germany and Malta than in Hungary alone. It is clear, therefore, that the new challenge of employment policy is reflected in the context of record low unemployment and the decline in labour reserves. The recovery of labour demand and the decline in supply, as well as the negative quality of its composition, make the domestic labour market increasingly tighter. Ladies and gentlemen, In the first part of my speech, I mentioned that the main international trend is clearly pointing to an increase in labour shortages around the world. According to the Manpower Group's research in 42 countries, the global shortage of professionals has reached another peak. Around the world, 40 percent of employers find it difficult to find the right workforce. Compared to last year, the proportion of firms that encountered difficulties in recruiting increased by 2 percentage points. According to last year's report by the European Centre for Vocational Training, Cedefop, health, social care, IT and industrial sector businesses in Europe were most affected by the shortage of professionals. Fortunately, this is far from the case in Hungary, but no country can separate itself from the global problem, so Hungary cannot. It is quite simply that the labour shortage in the most developed countries generates an increasing degree of international labour mobility. With regard to global trends, it is worth mentioning that skilled workers are the hardest to fill in the world. This is not surprising, as the production sector employs the largest number of skilled workers, so in terms of numbers, it is natural that demand for skilled workers is one of the most intensive in national economies. In Hungary, for example, nearly two thirds of 4.4 million employees, some 2.5 million people in physical activity. The hardest jobs apply to skilled workers here as well. Thus, the continuing increase in competition with labour is a global phenomenon, which has both quantitative and qualitative reasons. One of the causes is the negative demographic trend, the emergence of ageing societies, leading to a quantitative decline in the working age population. The global quality dimension of the increase in labour shortages is also linked to globalisation and ever faster technological developments. As a result of these two processes, there are increasing structural differences between supply and demand. And this is also the case in Hungary, which we intend to resolve with the training and other active tools to be mentioned later, as well as using them. Dear House, We also need to look at wage developments in the context of our subject today. The international standard of wages is undoubtedly one of the reasons why many people are looking for them in countries with higher wage levels, probably only temporarily, for their welfare. At the outset, I note that, even if we look at Europe alone, labour migration based on different wage levels is not only a Hungarian phenomenon, and it is also a fact that even between the old Member States the level of wages has not been balanced, despite the free movement of labour. Let us therefore look at how the Hungarian wage level has evolved for us in recent years compared to European countries. As regards the changes that have taken place since 2010, Hungarian wages have increased significantly more in national currency and in purchasing power parities than the wages of the three countries of destination that are important to Hungarians for international migration. We have therefore come close to Austrian, German and British wages since 2010, but the difference is still significant, and this must also be said. Obviously, it is not realistic to expect the huge differences that exist to be eliminated in a few years. I would like to point out that this year has been a further positive turn of events, as the outstanding Hungarian wage growth in the first half has already exceeded the rate of wage growth in all three other Visegrad countries. Based on the positive developments in recent years, it is therefore wrong that the Hungarian government bases economic policy and Hungarian competitiveness on the cheap labour force. This is also confirmed by the significant real wage growth that underpins our wage catch-up. According to KSH data, between 2010 and 2015, real wages, taking into account the impact of the family discount, increased by an average of 15.4 percent at national level, almost twice as much as GDP growth. More than average, the purchasing power of workers with multiple children increased by 20.6 percent, and those with three or more children by 42.6 percent. In the first nine months of 2016, real national incomes exceeded the levels of one year ago by 7.6 percent. With this, the growth of real wages has been unbroken for more than three and a half years without interruption. Such strong inter-annual growth has not been seen in more than a decade. We can say that almost a month's extra wages have increased the average Hungarian worker in one year. In view of the above, real wages in Hungary are, therefore, on average, 24 percent higher than when we took over government in 2010. These remarkable results were achieved primarily by the efforts of workers and businesses. The government's ability to directly influence wage developments is limited to the minimum wage and the public sector. In the competitive sector, with the minimum wage, the government can promote wage increases, in particular by improving the management conditions and reducing the public burden on employment. [[16.00]] In the case of the minimum wage, the government, in consultation with and in agreement with the social partners, determined the minimum wage that could be paid. From 2010 to 2016 from HUF 73 500 to HUF 111,000, i.e. 51 percent, the 4-5th largest of the EU countries in national currency and the highest of the Visegrád countries. Of the OECD Member States bringing together developed countries, Hungary has increased the minimum wage at the highest rate between 2010 and 2015. The real value of the net minimum wage for employees with family benefits increased significantly between 2011 and 16 per year, depending on the number of children, between 24 and 60 per cent. With regard to public employment wages, the grounds for the debate day's initiative state that the public employment wage, which is a source of livelihood for 230,000 people, is well below the poverty threshold; this was a quote. In the context of the public employment relationship, the employment income was determined by the legislator to be higher than the amount of the social benefit, but lower than the minimum wage laid down in the primary labour market. The aim is not to encourage job seekers to look for long-term livelihoods in public employment rather than in the primary labour market. The closing of scissors between public employment wages and the minimum wage would be countering the decline in labour shortages. Under its responsibility, the government can take direct wage measures in the public sector. Since 2013, wage increases have resulted in a steady rise in the average real demand for public sector workers. The government does not carry out wage increases in the public sector in general, but focuses on one area, primarily linked to career programmes. Thus, they receive and receive a salary increase - without the need for completeness - educators, law enforcement and defence workers, health and social workers, state officials. In the enterprise sector, the government has no direct impact on wage developments, the wage increase here is linked to the annual increase in the minimum wage and the guaranteed minimum wage, in particular by the significant increase in 2016 and by companies' efforts to reduce the increasing labour shortage by raising wages. As a result, the average 3-4 percent gross wage increase in the competitive sector in previous years has increased to 5-6 percent this year, which, as a result of minimal inflation and tax reductions, has provided real wage growth in this sector in excess of 7 percent this year. The government is working to increase wages noticeably in the coming years. The government cannot promise a salary increase in the economic competition sector, as it is essentially a matter of agreement between employers and employees. The government therefore agreed on a draft complex programme for six years on 22 November, yesterday within the extended framework of the Competitive Sector and the Permanent Consultation Forum of the Government, with the representatives of employees and employers, to increase the minimum wage, the guaranteed minimum wage and real wages, and to reduce employers' wage burdens. The agreement to be signed tomorrow on 24 November and the programme contained therein are unprecedented in the domestic history of reconciliation of interests. The aim of the programme is to bring together a strong improvement in competitiveness and productivity to help the wage catch-up that has already started. The programme takes into account the need to increase professional wages above the average in the Hungarian wage structure. Our intention is for businesses to know and be willing to activate their own resources even more than before to increase wages. Therefore, the programme is part of the tax burden on businesses, particularly the reduction of public burdens on wages. Due to its importance, I would also briefly address the specifics of the draft agreement, although these data are probably already known to you. The monthly amount of the minimum wage increases from 1 January 2017 to HUF 127 500 by 15 percent, with an increase of 8 percent from 1 January 2018 to HUF 138 thousand. The guaranteed minimum wage - this is the minimum wage for skilled workers - will be HUF 161 thousand with a 25 percent increase from 1 January 2017 and HUF 180 500 with a 12 percent increase from 1 January 2018. The corporate tax rate will be reduced to 9 per cent as of 1 January 2017. The rate of the social contribution tax paid by employers is reduced from 27 per cent today to 22 per cent by 5 percentage points from 1 January 2017 and by 2 percentage points from 1 January 2018 to 20 per cent. The social contribution tax paid by employers may be reduced by an additional 0,5 percentage point from 1 January 2019 to 19.5 percent if the increase in wages in the enterprise sector exceeds 11 per cent in the first and third quarter of 2017. In the years 2019-2020-2021 and 2022, the rate of social contribution tax may be further reduced by 2-2 percentage points per year if real earnings in the business sector increase by at least 6 percentage points. As a result of the expected reduction in the employer's burden, the tax and contribution burden, calculated within all labour costs, the so-called tax wedge, can now decrease from 48,2 per cent to 41.2 per cent, which can already make a noticeable improvement in international comparison. The minimum wage and the guaranteed minimum wage can, of course, continue to increase after 2018, which will continue to be discussed annually by the Competition and Government Permanent Consultation Forum. We hope that the agreement will fundamentally determine the wage catch-up of the coming years, improve our competitiveness, contribute to the acceleration of economic growth and help create predictable business conditions. Ladies and gentlemen, Given the issue of recruitment difficulties, there is no way to avoid reviewing the structure of the labour market. Despite rapid activity growth in Hungary, the activity rate of the working age population is 69.2 percent, which is slightly below the EU average of 72.5 percent. However, between 2010 and 16 some 350 thousand previously inactive workers appeared on the domestic labour market. The increase in labour demand by public employment has also played an important role in the improvement of the activity of the Hungarian population in recent years. In essence, the government's objective is that public employment can be the first stage of reintegration into the labour market. In the second quarter of 2016, the largest proportion of inactive people aged 15 to 64 were retired, the number of students was 670 thousand and the number of inactive persons for the other reasons was around 560 thousand. Within the inactive population, some 300,000 people could easily be reintegrated back into the labour market if the competitive sphere created a suitable job for them and they took part in training, i.e. workers. To sum up what has been said, the new challenges of employment policy are reflected in the record of low unemployment and the decline in labour reserves. The recovery of labour demand and the decline in supply, as well as the qualitative change in its composition, make the domestic labour market increasingly tighter. Hungary has labour reserves to mitigate competition in the labour market. Much greater than the current labour demand in the competitive sector.In the second quarter of 2016, businesses with at least 5 employees had less than 40,000 vacant positions at national level, representing 1.9 percent of the number of employees in the competitive sector. 20 percent of companies between 5 and 50 persons and 30 percent of enterprises with a headcount of more than 50 persons have unfulfilled positions. However, the recovery in demand is not equal to a labour shortage. A permanent shortage can only be said if these increasing number of job vacancies cannot be filled over a longer period. A quarter of the businesses surveyed in the context of the short-term labour market projections indicated in 2015 that there was a shortage of labour when certain job positions were filled. This is still below the pre-crisis level when 26,6 percent of companies were faced with problems with adequate recruitment, other employment and other unemployment indicators. [[16.10]] Dear House, Let's see who we can consider potential future workers. According to the National Employment Service data, the number of job seekers was 277,000 at the end of October. Most of them live in the North Great Plain region; more than half of them have secondary education and almost 170 000 have qualifications. One of the major challenges of employment policy is the transition and long-term integration of young people with no job experience from the school bench to a rapidly changing labour market. The level of employment of young people is typically lower compared to the overall population, as a significant proportion of the 15-24 age group is studying and is therefore not present in the labour market. Hungarian youth is particularly characterised by a lack of so-called dual status, i.e. working alongside learning is still less typical in Hungary. Encouraging this could be one of the directions for increasing activity. Nevertheless, we have achieved significant results in the employment of young people, as their employment has increased significantly since 2010. A major factor in increasing employment and falling unemployment has been a significant increase in women's economic activity over the past period. Between 2010 and 2015, the number of economically active women increased by about 130 thousand, with a rise in female workforce over the last five years. The activity indicator thus increased from 55.9 percent in 2010 to 62.5 percent. In recent years, government efforts have explicitly helped and supported children and families. In the future, we must continue to strive - as we have done with the extra introduction of ged - to effectively promote women's family-to-family careers, either in order to spread flexible forms of employment or through the acquisition of competitive skills. In addition to the unemployed, the largest share of the labour reserve is made up of those who work in the framework of public employment. We must strive to increase the proportion of those returning from public employment to the primary labour market, which has also been recorded in Hungary's convergence programme. Dear Parliament, Let us look at the tools and measures we have at our disposal to promote employment and reduce labour shortages. Firstly, I would like to highlight our efforts to transform the vocational training system. The government laid the first cornerstone of the vocational training reform needed to start economic growth by establishing the 2011 VET Act. As a result of structural changes, vocational training has been renewed since 2013 and technical training has taken place since September 2016. Both types of schools have become graduation institutions. From the point of view of the careers and careers of previous vocational training, the dead-end nature has ceased, as the type of institution that has become a vocational secondary school provides for the possibility of higher education for all young people. The former high school becomes a vocational high school. The name change means substantial renewal and renewal, as the number of hours available for vocational training and specialization is increasing, but young people will have an OKJ degree not only at the end of the technical course, but also at the time of graduation, which is highly respected by economic operators. The increasing involvement of economic operators in vocational training ensures that the Hungarian training system is adapted to the model of the German dual training system, which is considered to be a standard throughout Europe. The key element of this is that students learn the skills of practical training in companies, thus dual training equips young people with the most competitive professional skills and state-of-the-art employee skills. Based on the proven recipe, the apprenticeship system will continue to widen in the coming years and, by analogy, we support the increase in dual higher education frameworks in graduate training. A successful exit to the labour market is a guarantee of the acquisition of skills, which is also in the interest of the future generation, a new generation. However, it can be seen that maintaining economic recovery can only be ensured by increasing value added. We also have to meet global challenges such as the fourth industrial revolution in Europe, referred to as the Industry 4.0, which, with the explosive growth of digitalisation, will fundamentally change and make traditional mass production unique, and will also significantly transform the service sector, up to the banking sector; we must prepare for the creation of jobs we have never seen before, in addition to the downsizing and downsizing of previous jobs. With this in mind, we want to encourage an increase in the proportion of those entering vocational education and training and vocational higher education studies. Since last year, we have made it free of charge for everyone in the state vocational training centers. With this opportunity, more than 16,000 people lived soon after the departure, and now some 45,000 adults are taking part in adult education. From September 2016, there has been an increase in the number of people receiving a deficiency scholarship, and depending on the results of the studies, a student may be entitled to a scholarship of up to HUF 50,000 per month, which may be further increased by tens of thousands of HUF. Despite significant measures, we need to take further steps to ensure that an even higher number of effective workers with quality skills are available in all regions. His work one of the main causes of shortage is the lack of labour mobility. The mobility of the population in Hungary is extremely low both internally and internationally. While labour reserves have been kept to a minimum in the three most developed regions of the country and we can talk about practically total employment, there is still a significant workforce reserve available in the eastern half of the country. In addition to the measures already available to promote labour mobility, such as housing support, inter-local travel support, group passenger transport, additional benefits are included in the 2017 tax package, such as increasing the cost of self-employed work, clarifying the concept of working accommodation, introducing tax-free housing aid for mobility, broadening the tax base, such as the amount of housing support for mobility, the amount to be used for the construction, maintenance and operation of working accommodation. However, we also consider it particularly important to encourage investments in Hungary that create jobs to implement their development in areas with labour reserves. Such incentives include, for example, the designation of free business zones and the promotion of investments in their areas. The government pays attention to improving the situation of young people in the labour market. The aim is to create an inclusive labour market and an effective and long-term labour market for the young generation. Here I must highlight, in addition to our measures to support home creation and childbearing, the Youth Guarantee Scheme, which will help all job seekers under the age of 25 to enter and integrate into the labour market. A total of HUF 200 billion is available for the implementation of the Youth Guarantee employment leg in Hungary between 2014 and 2020 under various EU programmes. Between 2014 and 2020, we will help a total of 180 thousand young people under 25 years of age to get a job or a job-supporting qualification in the framework of complex, active labour market programmes, internships and entrepreneurial programmes. Dear House, A number of measures have been taken in recent years to promote the employment of disadvantaged target groups. From 1 January 2016, as part of our tailor-made activation policy, the customer-categorization system, also known as profiling, was introduced nationwide. One of the specific objectives of the new national profiling system is to improve the targeting of public employment, and those jobseekers who do not have other opportunities to find a job in the given situation should be employed in the public sector. In addition, it is important to highlight the "Road to the labour market" programme, under which labour market measures to integrate disadvantaged jobseekers and inactive people over 25 years of age into the labour market will be implemented. [[16.20]] Participants will receive complex, personalised assistance, service, training and support to improve employment. Until the first week of November 2016, some 40,000 people were enrolled, 27 percent of whom had a low education degree. A total of 27 thousand people received subsidised employment and 11 thousand received training. Adapting to labour market challenges is the cornerstone of increasing the number of adults involved in the lifelong learning process. Therefore, priority 6 of the GINOP programme also supports access to formal training and skills development opportunities for the working age population. In 2015, the project "The training of low-skilled and public workers" was launched. Trainings are characterised by gradualness, so supported training courses range from basic competence development up to training courses in the field of the OKJ. The aim is to reduce the rate of school leaving among vocational education and training students, supported by a priority project with a budget of HUF 1.8 billion. This is also the priority of the adult skill and competence measurement programme, which aims to assess the most important text understanding, mathematics, problem solving and infocommunication skills of 16-65-year-old adults. The employment protection action, which entered into force on 1 January 2013, promotes the employment of the most disadvantaged and highly flexible social groups in the labour market by reducing labour costs. The job protection benefits in the business sector are now helping to employ almost 900 000 employees, and since 2013, employers have used a total of 460 billion HUF job protection benefits since 2013. In the medium term, the durability of job creation mainly depends on improving the employability of public employment participants in the private sector. The government's aim is to increase the proportion of people who go back from public employment to the primary labour market. On 1 February 2016, the programme "Public Employment into the Competition Sector" was introduced to achieve the goals. The aid encourages public workers to enter the competitive sector. Dear Parliament, Overall, I can say that the government will help to reduce competition in the labour market by all means available, to increase employment, as I have shown you in recent minutes. I hope that my fellow Members agree with me that every situation can be interpreted in many ways. However, the solution can be found together, effectively and effectively and effectively, by finding the strengths on which we can build, by setting out the challenges to which we want to focus our powers, by adding together our knowledge, resources and, of course, our work and time. We have achieved little success by increasing employment and reducing unemployment significantly, but now we need to focus our efforts on tackling the challenges that arise as effectively as possible in order for the economy to continue to succeed, by increasing employment and reducing unemployment. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-11-23-160	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, The speeches will now be held by the representatives, the first of which will be held by keynote speakers, within 15-15 minutes of each group of representatives. First, I give the floor to Congressman Sándor Czomba, the lead speaker of Fidesz. Here.
u2016-11-23-161	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Firstly, I would like to thank the LMP for bringing this important issue to Parliament. It is good that we can talk about it, it is good that we can change some important elements, and perhaps, we hope, we can find some compromise solutions by the end of the day. I would like to start by saying that Parliament is debating the shortage of labour today, and that is a good thing in some respects. Because if someone had told me in 2010 that the Hungarian Parliament would argue in 2016 why there were not enough workers in Hungary, then I would have quickly signed the paper that otherwise it was okay. Where did we start and where are we? 2010 is, say, Greece; it is not a coincidence that Greece should be called here, because from an employment and labour market point of view, we were around in the same league. [[Dr. László Varga: That's not true! Intercom from the lines of the MSZP: It's not true! Dr. László Varga: That is simply not true!]] In 2010, Greece had an unemployment rate of around 12 per cent - in 2010! - in 2010, Hungary had an unemployment rate of around 12 per cent. [[Dr. Laszlo Varga: Look at the numbers.]] Compared to this, the unemployment rate in Greece was 23 percent in 2016, unemployment in Greece doubled, unemployment rate in Hungary was 4.9 percent, and unemployment rate was halved. In the time of socialist governments - again, I'll give you a figure to argue with him if you succeed. - double the number of unemployed between 2004 and 2010 [[Peter Cseresnyés: That's right!]] And now we've split this figure in half. I think these are very important data. Since the change of government, as the Secretary of State indicated, with 680,000 more people working in the autumn of 2016 compared to the spring of 2010, the 680,000 seems to have found 450,000 jobs in the competition sector - and I would like to ask you to do so, not to refer to institutional statistics when looking at employers above five, because it sees a fraction of the Hungarian labour market. As we have said in previous years, I say that we should always argue about how employment and unemployment are in Hungary on the basis of the data of the MEF, the labour force survey. The improvement in young people is particularly significant, and let's stop here for a moment, it's worth it. Again, I can only bring the Greeks here: the Greeks had around 30 percent of the unemployment rate of 15-24-year-olds, and in Hungary it was also around 29 percent; now the Greeks have 49.1 percent, almost 50 percent, and in Hungary 13 percent. This was not done on its own, but if I mention just one moment, within the framework of the Youth Guarantee programme - I have updated the figures here - 64 thousand young people are involved in the programme, 28,000 are already in supported employment and 14,000 are in training. So these processes are not happening on their own, but there are real government measures behind them. With regard to wages, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to add a few points to what the Secretary of State has already said. I think it is not a question for anyone that it is very important for the appreciation of workers not only to work more, but also to recognise this extra work in wages. If you look at Western European wages, in Western Europe there is a wage difference of roughly three to four times five times compared to Hungarian wages, if you look at it in purchasing power parities, then the situation is a little better, about two to two and a half times, but the difference is still important. So if we are aiming to ensure that Hungarian wages are competitive with Western European wages, and that is when Hungarians working abroad will come home, then what we really need to see is that, not just in the next one or two years, but in the next maybe a decade or two, it is not certain that this will happen. And fortunately, much of the Hungarian workers who are now abroad have not only decided to do so because of wages; we can talk about this on the basis of our previous experience. [[Dr. István Józsa: A desire for freedom!]] Where is the state's role in raising wages? There are two important areas: minimum wages and the public sector. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the minimum wage has increased significantly in recent years, and I would like to set a milestone here: the situation was different between 10 and 12 and the situation is different after 12. From 10 to 12 we had to climb out of the mess in which, after the economic crisis, the previous governments and socialist governments left the country. After 2012, the real value of wages also clearly increased, as inflation is also very low in these years. And here, perhaps, I would like to draw attention to another important segment: family tax relief. The Hungarian government's policy, wage policy and family policy, as well as its employment policy, are essentially based on this: helping families with every means possible. [[16.30]] If we look behind here, I have to say that today, let's say, if you have three children, you will receive your gross income of HUF 74,000 net. I think it's worth writing down because it's an important theme. I have just mentioned that in terms of minimum wage and public sector; let us look at the public sector. According to the latest KSH data, gross average earnings increased by 6.1 percent, while net average earnings increased by 7.7 percent due to changes in net earnings, and now the point is that net wages increased by 7 percent in enterprises over a year and 10% in the fiscal sector. So, ladies and gentlemen, this means that in the last few months the public sector has been pulling the competition sector, so in Hungarian, the wage developments that the Hungarian government has introduced through various career models and others are clearly reflected in these figures. I would like to say a few thoughts on migration issues and immigration issues to the starter of the debate. A slogan: the Hungarian government intends to remedy the decline of the population not through immigration, but through a targeted family support system. Here there is a significant difference between us, especially between my fellow socialists and the governing party, as they clearly said in a study years ago that the shortage of labour should be addressed and replaced in the coming years by means of migration. And here is a very important question, I think, that we should not confuse those who are legally engaged in work and illegal immigrants in Hungary because of the persistent shortage of labour. These are two completely different concepts. People who come to Hungary legally and help in an area like Szabolcs-Szatmár-Bereg county, besides the high unemployment, farmers found it very difficult to find apple pickers in the autumn. The fact is that even where unemployment is the highest in the country, it is very difficult to find either auxiliary work or trained work. Obviously, raspberry, pears, everyone could give similar examples. Obviously, this also points to important things about how and how to change them. But if Ukrainian citizens of the border in particular are Hungarian native speakers - they often speak Hungarian better than we do - they come and help us, welcome them. So let's not mix it up. And here's a very important thing to say. A quota is set each year for third-country employment. In 2015, there were 59 000 people in quota, 7366 of which were issued work permits. So it is not about using the quota as a minimum, so it is not about third-country people causing any tension on the Hungarian labour market. As regards workers abroad, I would like to draw the attention of my fellow Members to the fact that in 2004 we joined the European Union, among other things, because we supported the free movement of labour. At the time, even my fellow socialists on the government said whether you wanted to open a coffee shop in Vienna, if you want to join the Union. Well, some people have taken this call seriously and have joined in and are trying to provide opportunities abroad. It is an important sentence, an important sentence for you, that Hungarians should not be forced to experience it as an opportunity to work abroad, it is an important issue. If the question is whether there is a Hungarian person who has been forced to work abroad, we can certainly find one. But the fundamental question is that, in this respect, we should look at working abroad where it belongs, and we should be happy to help people who, by the way, want to deal with temporary job opportunities and other problems, financial or other problems abroad. They should obviously have support, crutches, opportunity on their way home. Obviously, we have a task in this regard, and we have a joint task in the next period. But let us also appreciate those who have stayed home and tried to use home opportunities with honor and honor. As regards migration, I would like to say to my fellow Members that based on the OECD study, Estonians have a 14 per cent migration rate, Slovaks have 10 per cent, Poles have 9.5 per cent, and Hungary has 5 per cent. So when we talk about the tragedy in the Hungarian labour market, I think it is worth remembering what the situation is. I would like to say something about public employment, and Mr Secretary of State has also indicated. It is obvious that our opposition fellow Members have difficulty dealing with this, because what it is is unnecessary, but at the moment when I find a life situation, families, that we should not live on aid, but work in some way, let's say, in the easternmost corner of the Szabolcs, it must, however, be important, but not to that extent, not to that extent, not then and not like that. So here, too, I think it's important to record some basic things. Between 2010-12, with a zero-percent GDP, the Hungarian government had to decide in 10 what to do. Do you need help with hundreds of thousands of people? And let me give you a figure: in 2010 there were 561 thousand people on some kind of aid in Hungary, out of which 209 thousand people were out of care, not a single forint. The same number is now 321 thousand and 158 thousand. So we've managed to reduce it substantially. So we decided to give people jobs instead of aid, and we didn't let any of that happen. Another question is, of course, that when the labour market is recovering and the question is whether someone should take up a job in public employment or in the competitive sector, especially if they are qualified, we must use all means to help the competitive sphere. There's no argument between us. So I think that, in the next period, the instruments that are already pointing in this direction already exist, but will help in the future, must be strengthened. The fact is that unemployment is below 3.5 percent in eight counties in Hungary, there is a total employment, while unemployment in Szabolcs is about 11,3%, that 42 thousand people are in public work. So obviously there are huge differences between regions. Employment policy is not a puzzle that can be put together by otherwise looking for 25-40 years of professional work in Western Hungary, and otherwise there are unemployed people under 25 or over 50 years of age for auxiliary work in Szabolcs, because they only have eight general qualifications. So in Hungarian, if we want to deal with the problems of labour shortages, obviously these important things must be taken into account. We know mobility in Hungary, and we know very well what condition it is in. The subsidies we have made so far in relation to mobility support are effective, but few, this is clearly seen from the data showing the movements, but the Szabolcsi person or the Borsodi man or the person from Nógrád does not want to go to work primarily in Western Hungary, but wants to provide a job opportunity where he is at the moment, and he can't even sell his apartment or certainly not for that. So obviously these are also very important and complex problems. These are the things we need to focus on. Here's another quick sentence about demography, because that's probably one of the most important questions. By 2050, the total population could fall below 8.5 million in Hungary, if this trend continues, the working age population could fall from 6.5 million to 5.5 million. This is where it starts. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] this is the biggest problem, and it is therefore important that we help the country to grow with the family support system, with all means. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause from the pro-government ranks.]]
u2016-11-23-162	Thank you very much. With all due respect, I would like to draw the lead speakers' attention to the fact that, regardless of the Fidesz time frame or the faction time frame available, the maximum duration of the speech is 15 minutes. Thus, Mr László Varga can now give his opinion in the spirit of this. Here you go.
u2016-11-23-163	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Ladies and gentlemen of the State Secretary. I would pick up where the previous solo left off, in the hope that this debate may make sense, and perhaps we can agree on certain issues, although I would like to start with the distinctions. But in that statement, I agreed that the Borsodian man would like to work where he lives. [[16.40]] I am also the Member of Parliament for a Borsod individual district, Miskolc and five other settlements, and I see that a lot of people would like to thrive in the area, and a lot of people are forced to leave this region because they cannot get a proper job and work properly. You have announced the work-based society in words, promised change to these people, but you have taken action that has not yet served this. They talked about a flexible labour market - they changed the labour code at the beginning of their governance, they made Hungarian workers flexible. We remember the circumstances of the adoption of the Labour Code, the public debates that spread into the night. I think and I see that hundreds of thousands of Hungarian workers can see how vulnerable they are to the multi-company companies they work for, and see how often they are forced to work in this vulnerability for unsatisfyingly low wages. We see it all over Europe, and here the Secretary of State has, quite the same, said in his expo, that we are talking about a process that is visible across Europe, that the skilled workforce is reduced, that there are demographic reasons for the skilled workforce available, and that many complex social processes - so is the case in Hungary. These processes can be seen: a great deal of migration and a lack of skilled labour. However, in Europe and in the Visegrád states, we have seen a visible reaction to this process in recent years, large, high wage increases, a high salary increase. In these countries, they wanted to compete with increasing added value, improving productivity, while in Hungary we can see problematic processes in education, reducing the age limit for compulsory education, and the transformation of the vocational training system, which seems to be disruptive for the time being; we can also see the problems in the service that workers may see in health care. There is a European process, therefore, in an open Europe where the labour force flows freely, and hundreds of thousands of the most competitive Hungarian workers do work abroad. There's no response to that yet. You said in the early 10s that Hungary has an excellent competitive position that the labour force is low. That's what's been going on for these months, that's the thing. The growth prospects of the Hungarian economy are threatened by this shortage of skilled workers, and there is a serious collapse if Hungary does not pay the workers. Obviously, this needs to be changed, and we have been proposing a raise for years, but you consider that you have come here under pressure. And all of this forced Hungary to build a work-based society, or rather to talk about it, and not a knowledge-based society, which is really needed in order for future workers to adapt to the challenges of the future, for the growing Hungarian generations to be able to live better and happier in this country. In my speech, I quickly make net earnings in July 2016: EUR 551 in Hungary, EUR 708 in Slovakia, EUR 793 in the Czech Republic, EUR 723 in Poland, EUR 2009 in Austria. It can be seen, therefore, that not only Austria is looking for light years, many times in average earnings - how can we hold back workers who wish to work there as health professionals, catering workers or construction workers? - but also the Visegrád countries are constantly making us catch up. So they slept on this issue for six years. There has been no substantial increase in wages in this country, transforming labour market processes, and it is no wonder that they are in a hurry and are trying to replace six years behind with a six-year-old wage catch-up programme, which, of course, in this form is simply a honeybathing, nothing else. So I say that they only acted when the shortage of labour has caused very serious problems, not earlier, not in the interests of workers primarily, but for economic reasons, and in such an environment and in addition to the reduction of contributions, such as corporate tax, specifically supporting large business operators and multi-company companies, as the 10% reduction affects them. A Hungarian SME or a small entrepreneur is not helped by reducing corporate tax by 1 percent, and it will be very difficult for a forced entrepreneur to manage the minimum wage if they do not reduce additional contributions. Of course, this crisis of existence, which has emerged in Hungary, must be dealt with. The MSZP has a four-point package to deal with this. I think that three of these four are specifically linked to this debate day, so I would like to say these. 1. Let the minimum wage be 100,000 forints net. 2. Let's go back to the old pension system, because the pension increase you're offering to pensioners today is humiliatingly low. 3. Reduce energy prices, no one pays more for energy than it actually costs. Indeed, there have been reduction measures, but a comparison of world market prices would justify significantly lower prices. So if we look at how much energy prices cost internationally, it could be much cheaper for Hungarian people and not compare prices with previous periods when world market prices were significantly higher. 4. Continue to reduce VAT on basic foods, as reducing VAT on basic foods would also help the poorest people with the most difficult fates. We have had a number of such proposals over the past period, and of course we will continue to do so. We are asking you to support this four-point package as a quick and effective action. Of course, this is the first step, but further increases are needed in other payment categories as well. This is what we are asking, therefore, to finally address the everyday problems of the Hungarian people and not to serve the fidesz urizing elite. Thank you, Mr. President.
u2016-11-23-164	Thank you very much. I must apologise to Mr Nándor Gúr, because I did not say that the group would give its position in two parts, so I now give the floor to Mr Nándor Gúr as the lead speaker. Here you go.
u2016-11-23-165	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, Look, after 2010, 2011 and 2012, I believe they made the biggest mistake, we could also say the original sin, because in these years they should have made a wage agreement that was certified yesterday, as a first step, simply because they missed, did not do it, and this has irreversible consequences. There are irreversible consequences, since over half a million people, 600 thousand people have left this country in the last six years, simply because they cannot make a living otherwise, because they have not been able to earn money for themselves or for their families. Now, if these people are gone, any wage agreement in 2016, unfortunately, these people will not be brought home. It would be nice if you could bring him home with these promises, these wage improvements, but that's not gonna happen. This is only good enough to make a slight brake on hundreds of thousands of people going away later, although as I listen to Péter Cseresnyés in terms of achieving full employment, I immediately think that there is not much to do: 300 to 400 thousand more people need to be chased away, as they have done in the last six years, and then there will really be full employment in Hungary, but I think that this is not in the interests of this country, but it would have been in the best interest of this country to keep all those who are able to work here. The problem is, you know, that those who have left are 80 percent under 40, young people, mostly professionals, able to produce a return, here is the basic problem, and of course, in the vocational training system they have not done everything they should have done, but rather smashed the story. Of course, there are beneficiaries, but they're not the majority of people. From this starting position, I have to say, where we have reached today, it is quite deplorable in terms of the minimum wage or the guaranteed minimum wage, since they have given people a minimum wage of less than five years, it was the least income-making layer, who was not a beneficiary of it, but a sufferer of your work in quotes. My fellow Member Varga has indicated the relationship between the Visegrád four levels. [[16.50]] Unfortunately, I have to say that there have been huge wage differences in the period of your governance, since they have been given 40-50 percent less in the minimum wage net, but also 20-25 percent in the average wage level. Not only can Europe not compete and retain our own workforce in this regard, but we must also suffer in this regard at the level of the Visegrad Four, because you have not considered this important in the last six years. You know, when the minimum wage was paired with a contribution charge that matched a net wage of HUF 60 200 in 2010, there was a total contribution charge of HUF 32,000 that employers and employees paid, now in this period, and in 2016 it was HUF 69 thousand - 69 thousand, more than double; 32 it was, now it was 37 thousand more than it was then - the charge that employers and employees pay together. This amount, this 69 thousand HUF load, is almost as much as you take in your hands in net, 73 815 HUF. You think that's okay? By the way, when compared to the Visegrád Four, 66 percent of the gross minimum wage is taken over in Hungary, and this is between 80 and 92 percent in the Visegrád Four. So they make sure that they don't take you away from the smallest earners, but, as far as possible, give you as much as you can in purchasing power, while you're doing exactly what you're looking for. This policy is your policy: to take it away from the so-called poor, those in a lower income position, to push it to the rich. Think about it. From the public employment wage - I do not want to talk about it in detail now, about the 47,000 ominous which today is 52 - we get to the point that some people get 5 million forints a month; well, for friends. You can line up here by name, but I'm not sure we can put those names on a board anymore. What I'm trying to say is that beyond the minimum wage and beyond the guaranteed minimum wage, you'll also have to see that, obviously, because of yesterday's action, there will be a kind of wage disruption due to the agreement. It would be unfortunate if more than half of Hungary's working people, let's say, had a minimum wage. For this reason, it is precisely necessary to take measures which, for example, do not favour those who can otherwise generate adequate returns and profits in relation to corporate income tax, but hundreds of thousands of Hungarian micro and small enterprises who otherwise employ a large majority of Hungarian people. That's where the money should be focused. Or, as far as tax burdens are concerned, what should be done is to ensure tax exemptions and tax credits for the minimum wage, so that there is a tangible increase in the minimum wage, the guaranteed minimum wage, without suffocating employers. That would just mean that you, as a government, wouldn't collect as much money and throw it around irresponsiblely at your buddies' level. These paths should be pursued, and perhaps a more favourable set of conditions could arise. And, you know, since my fellow Member Czomba and others have mentioned Greece and others here, remember what category Hungary was in during that period. You know, in the category that you consider appropriate for your investment. Now here, after the ratings, after six years, we got somewhere close to this story, while Hungary was a member of the bovli category for many years. And even now, at the moment, we are weaker than we were in the years before 2010 and 2010. So I must say that you, my fellow Members, are not looking out for the interests of the people. No, they've got their own, they've got their buddies in mind, yeah, that's what they've got in mind. They should focus on getting millions of people, especially those working on them. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] extra resources, who therefore sweat in everyday life. Mr. President, thank you very much.
u2016-11-23-166	Thank you very much. The lead speaker of the Christian Democratic People's Party is coming, Congressman István Hollik. Here.
u2016-11-23-167	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Mór Jókai once said that only the person who saw where we started knew how far we went. This means that we can only examine exactly whether we are going in the right direction and how much progress we have made by looking at where we have come from. I hope that even the opposition representatives will agree that there can be no other purpose for the current Hungarian government to bring Hungarian wages closer to the EU wage level in terms of employment and wages. It is therefore worth examining who has achieved what in this area. Allow me to highlight some data from 2002-2010 and then from 2010-2016. I'd like to start with the employment rate. The employment rate among 15-64-year-olds decreased from 56.2 percent in 2002 to 54.9 percent in 2010. The unemployment rate was 5.6 per cent in 2002 and increased to 11.2 per cent in 2010. These are just numbers, but it's worth checking out what else happened during this period. We have seen that although the socialist government has made a significant wage increase in the public sector, only in the public sector, there was only one problem that they didn't start from reality, they didn't adapt this wage increase to the performance of the economy, which is why reality quickly confronted the socialists. This increase in wages has made a huge hole in the budget, and they've started filling it with loans. The budget deficit grew, the government's debt increased, and then we saw that they had to be plugged in, so although in 2006 they promised to reduce the VAT, they increased it. During that time, the energy price tripled, and in the end they reached the point of super-bruttorating wages, which means that the employer's contributions - even then called - were made the basis for personal income tax, even taxing people. And in the end, of course, it all ended with the fact that what was given as a wage increase in 2002 was also taken away in 2010 by withdrawing a month's wages. This was the result of the eight years of the socialists. [[Noise, interrogations from the opposition side, including Dr. Wind Bernadett: It's 2016! The president's ringing the bell.]] In addition, 200,000 people lost their jobs and the government debt increased by 30 percent. It was the socialist economic miracle. What must be added is that all this was done with a period of economic activity at the time, the EU was strong. For example, if we look at 2007 the average economic growth of the European Union in 2007 was 3.1 percent. Hungary was able to grow 1 percent that year under your governance. I believe that this makes the situation more serious. To sum up, the question is poetic, but we have to ask whether this socialist road has brought us closer to the desired Western European level of living and wages. We must clearly answer this question with no. Let's see what happened after 2010. After the Fidesz-KDNP has been given the opportunity to govern, we said that we will build a work-based society, and our fundamental goal is that from the brink of bankruptcy, where you have pushed the country, we will pull the country back with a disciplined fiscal policy, and we will make sure that every Hungarian person who can work can. How are the numbers in this regard? In employment, we see that the employment rate in 2010 was 54,9 per cent, and in 2016 it was 66,4 per cent. The unemployment rate, which at the end of your governance licked 12 percent, is 5.1 percent in 2016. [[17.00]] These figures speak for themselves: the number of people employed has increased by 680,000, and employment is at a 26-year peak. Here I would like to point out to Mr Nándor Gúr that they are talking about a shortage of workers, but in 2014, I quote you literally, he said that in the event of employment and unemployment, the figures turned down. So now you're contradicting yourself when you say there's a shortage of workers today. It would be nice to decide which version is real now. [[Dr. László Kács: You created both!]] Let's talk a little bit about wage growth. From 2011, but especially from 2013, Hungarian wages have been reduced, for example, since you mentioned this, the disadvantage compared to Czech and Slovak wages, and in the first half of 2016 the outstandingly high Hungarian wage growth exceeds the wage dynamics of all three other Visegrád countries. Real wage dynamics were 15.4 percent between 2010 and 2015 and 7.5 percent in the first eight months of 2016, which is the highest value for more than a decade. In total, it can be said that real wages in Hungary are on average 24 percent higher than in 2010. The government has also, under its own responsibility, been carrying out multi-stage wage increases in the public sector since 2013, focusing on one area and linked to career plans. Among these, it should be pointed out that between 2011 and 2019 the wages of healthcare workers will double. If we are talking about the period 2010-2016, we should also make an international comparison. My colleague Sándor Czomba has already spoken about it, and I would like to say the Greek example: in 2010 Hungary had 54,9 percent employment rate, in 2016 66,4 percent, in Greece 59,7 percent, and in 2016 52,4 percent. I have already said unemployment in Hungary and it has increased from 12 percent to 23.1 percent in Greece. So it is clear that if a country is pursuing economic policy dictated by the IMF, the end will be that jobs will be lost and public debt will increase, whereas Hungary has been able to stand on its own feet and bring it closer to full employment. If we are talking about the international outlook, this includes the fact that all these results have been achieved by the Hungarian people and the government, that the European economy around us is still in a bad state: there is little growth, there is increasing social dissatisfaction in Europe because of the mismanagement of modern immigration. So Hungary had to steer its ship towards the goal by blowing eyes all the time, and this is also a great challenge for us in the future, because we have to go ahead and promote Hungary's prosperity in such a way that the Europe to which we are tied with a thousand threads is stagnant, and even if we consider social dissatisfaction and political instability, we can say that it is rather slipping backwards, and this makes our work difficult. If our opposition fellow Members criticise that, although all these indisputable results show that we have started in the right direction but are not sufficient, we can, of course, agree on this. That is why in recent weeks the government has sat down with its social partners and agreed on a wage-raise programme that has not been similar in the last 20 years. [[Dr. István Józsa: You're scared!]] Yesterday Minister Mihály Varga announced that the minimum wage will increase by 15 percent and the guaranteed minimum wage by 25 percent in 2017, and therefore the employer's contributions will be reduced by 5 percentage points by the government. This minimum wage increase will continue in 2018, when the minimum wage will rise by 8 percent, the minimum wage by 12 percent, and the government will reduce the contributions by 2 percentage points. So what you can see is that with this agreement everyone went up to the wall, both employers and the government, in order for the Hungarian people's wages to increase noticeably in the coming years. It should be said that when we talk about raising the minimum wage, the general trend and experience is that if the minimum wage rises, it also raises the overall wage level. We see that, as a result of the work of the last six years, much more Hungarian people are now working, so in some regions there is indeed a labour shortage. As one of the reasons for this, my fellow Members refer to working abroad, so I would like to say a few words about this. Hungary has done a lot in the last few years to allow every Hungarian person who wants to work. Undoubtedly, we can produce remarkable results in this area, but it is natural for us to have fellow countrymen who, however, find bread elsewhere, to try their luck in another country. However, when the opposition is alarmed by an emigration wave, or, as Nándor Gúr said, by persecution, it is far beyond the target and deceives the Hungarian people. We find it unacceptable that opposition representatives regularly attack foreign workers. [[Dr. Wind Bernadett: Ouch! Ouch! The government!]] It is incomprehensible why Hungarian people who are working abroad, defying the difficulties and risks, are dissuaded. These compatriots, thinking of their country, sent home about a thousand billion forints. In view of this, no Hungarian Member can take the liberty of attacking these Hungarian people, who, for whatever reason, have decided to try themselves abroad. These people deserve nothing but respect and respect. My fellow Members on this subject are, by the way, double irresponsible and uncredited. On the one hand, because earlier, even in the 2014 campaign, they said that many people leave Hungary because the atmosphere in Hungary is suffocating, there is a dictatorship, there is no freedom, there is no democracy. Then the reality came up with you again, when research clearly showed that Hungarian workers working abroad are not trying their luck abroad for political reasons at all, and, moreover, this is good news, most people say that they want to return to Hungary in the short and medium term. On the other hand, they are discredited because when they were in government, even you considered it a good thing to open up the European labour market to the Hungarian people. Of course, I'm not sure that I can open a pastry shop in Vienna, which was a lively display of this message. If our fellow Member László Varga spoke, I would also like to recall that he was the one who, even in 2009, collected a signature with the MSZP youth organisation in Szombathely for a proposal that would extend the Erasmus programme in order to give every young person the opportunity to travel, live or work in another EU Member State than his own. So you considered this to be another political goal to support when you came to the opposition, you were already talking about persecution; that is because your political interest dictates it. [[An uproar in the opposition's benches. The president's ringing the bell.]] It is clear to everyone that the main reason for working abroad is the wage level in Western Europe. There is indeed a significant difference between Western European and Hungarian average wages, but when the opposition wants to pin this situation on Fidesz-KDNP, it cannot be called political populism, because the fundamental reason for the wage difference is that while the West has developed freely in market economy conditions over the past 60 years, we Hungarians have moaned under the yoke of communist planning. And if we look at which political force has increased and which has reduced the difference between Western European and Hungarian wages after 89, then it is even better for the socialists to remain silent, since Hungary has moved away from all aspects between 2002 and 2010. [[Zoltán Grimlock: Stop educating us, you child! Incoming calls. Zoltán Haughty: Because he's lying!]]
u2016-11-23-168	Now, please, the Erasmus programme... Stop, stop, stop! The Erasmus programme is indeed a study programme, but it does not focus on the studies of shouting, but on a completely different matter. We'll add ten seconds to the congressman. You carry on, and everyone else hope it's his turn. Good.
u2016-11-23-169	Thank you. I am very sorry that the reality hurts my fellow socialists, but please argue with the numbers, and I have told you numbers here. [[Zoltán Grimlock: I'll take you to a dairy farm and you'll find out what's going on. Have you ever worked at work for a minute?]] I think when we are pursuing a policy of tax cuts and wage increases [[Dr. Wind Bernadett: When? In your dreams?]] The objective of this is to slow down the emigration process and to reduce or halt foreign employment. [[17.10]] To conclude, I would like to draw the attention of my fellow Members to one thing. When the results of the last six years, which have been listed by me and my pro-government fellow Members, are attacked by shouting, they think that, but ultimately, they are not attacking us, but the results achieved by the Hungarian people, because the economic policy of Fidesz-KDNP will continue to be based on agreements. [[Dr. László Kács: The country is in good hands!]] the aim of which is to enable Hungarian families and Hungarian people to thrive in Hungary. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties. Applause in the ranks of the MSZP. Zoltán Pride: Bravo! Szabó Timea: Again! Interviews in the ranks of the MSZP.]]
u2016-11-23-170	Dear Parliament, It's time for the lead speaker of Jobbik. I give the floor to János Volner. [[Constant interruptions.]] Let us come to a consensus that in this Parliament only one person is called János Volner, he is standing up. That's why it's up to you. Here you go, Congressman.
u2016-11-23-171	Thank you, Mr. President. I would like to tell Mr István Hollik that this is not why the fellow Members shouted, but because you read a Jókai quote in the report of the President of the National Court Office, and in two days you fired it twice here in Parliament. [[Defiance.]] One of our fellow Members explained that it will be fixed after four, so he has two more pitches, and then everyone will note this quote. Let's look forward to it, fellow Member. [[Intercoms.]] But moving to today's item on the agenda, which we are talking about: in September we announced at our opening session that the main topic of this parliamentary session will be how the wage increase of employees can be achieved in Hungary, and we are trying to pressure the government on this, as we see that the Orbán government's openly undertaken strategy was to base Hungary's competitiveness on cheap and vulnerable labour force. For example, we looked at publications distributed abroad in which the government offers Hungary as an investment destination, not arguing how well-trained the workforce is, not how high added value it can produce, but arguing how cheap the labour force is and how favourable the legislation that the government has constantly changed to the detriment of employees since 2010. It is very important to see that when I was able to reach the Prime Minister before, for example, the EU summit in Bratislava for a group leader meeting, I asked Viktor Orbán to try to do everything he can with pressure from the multinationals in order to increase the wages of the working Hungarian people by at least the richest industrial companies. Orbán said that he considered this a bad idea, because it will reduce the competitiveness of the Hungarian economy. What the Secretary of State has just said is that the government has the potential to directly influence wages in two areas, one in the public sector, because the government directly controls the level of wages, and the other is that it is trying to generate wage tension by means of the minimum wage, thereby achieving a general increase in wages in the economy. I would add the third, ladies and gentlemen, which has not been dealt with, that is that they are also trying to raise net wages by means of tax policy in such a way that they will finally reduce the tax pressure on the Hungarian people, on the tax press that the Orbán government has drawn ever closer and closer in 2010. It is important to see that when we confronted the Prime Minister here, for example, that the minimum wage is the highest tax burden of all OECD Member States in Hungary, he did the same thing as Congressman Hollik, he started babbling about what has never happened here in Parliament, that the opposition is hurting Hungarians working abroad. Ladies and gentlemen, wake up, this has not been said by any party. I understand it's more pleasant to say things like this, but they're arguing with something that no one has said. We have claimed that the tax burden on the minimum wage is the highest in Hungary among all OECD countries, which is a fact issue. And the Prime Minister boasted how much the Orbán government has increased the gross minimum wage. Yes, ladies and gentlemen, the gross minimum wage has been greatly increased, but the net minimum wage has barely increased as a result, because - I say factual data - in 2010 the total public burden of the minimum wage could be set at HUF 34 212, compared to HUF 68 820 in 2016. In English: what did the Orbán government do? It has doubled the tax burden on the lowest-income Hungarians in six years, ladies and gentlemen. Where did the net minimum wage rise twice compared to this? The net minimum wage has barely increased! This is about the fact that the government has doubled the tax burden on the minimum wage, and thus kicked one into the lowest-income workers, and when it began to advertise to less-informed members of society that the government was doing everything it could because it increased the minimum wage, did nothing but do a sweep of the attic, hit the Hungarian small entrepreneurs with this measure, while the minimum wage was without doubt barely able to rise as a result. It is also important to see where we stand when we talk about the high tax burden on Hungarian people, according to international statistics. Not only does Hungary lead between all OECD Member States in terms of the tax burden on the minimum wage, but we are also the highest tax-bearing country in the former socialist countries in terms of GDP-related tax and contribution revenues, and we have been at the forefront in this area, and when the government has been trying to make itself the government of tax reductions for six years now, ladies and gentlemen, in Hungary the largest of all former socialist countries in the region. The Orbán government should not be proud of anything, and this economy will be strangled together with high taxes and even higher corruption. It is also important to see that the tax wedge is also the fourth highest of all OECD Member States in Hungary with regard to the tax wedge. This is also one in which we are far ahead of the countries of the region, and in such a way a strangler is constantly being held by the economy. It is also worth looking at how the government has tried to address the issue of employee wages. For example, the level of VAT was raised from 25 to 27 per cent, although in mid-2009, when the socialist government raised it from 20 to 25 per cent, and when the global economic crisis rang the loudest, the Fidesz faction collectively demanded that the level of VAT should not be raised by the then socialist government. Compared to this, Fidesz did not restore the original 20 percent VAT level, but increased the world record to 27 percent. He's introduced taxes that he's applied transit taxes to. In principle, for example, banks are subject to the bank tax, the transaction tax that the Orbán government introduced, but we know that, at the same time as the transaction levy, the banks have informed their customers that the transaction costs of the customers are increasing, and in this way the banks are also paying the transaction fee with the private people and small businesses who hold their accounts. What has happened here is that they tax search people in Hungary in such a way that they are not, in principle, taxable persons, but they practically bear all the burden of doing so. It is also important to see that at the time when the government introduced the single-key tax system, it led the institution of the tax credit at the same time, even when the Orbán government's measure hit the lowest-income people. And when we confront Viktor Orbán here with the fact that emigration has increased one and a half to two times since 2010 in Hungary, and more and more people are leaving this country because the government created an unlivable environment for him, then the Prime Minister begins to talk about the large wage differences between Germany and Hungary. In fact, the Hungarian people are not going abroad to work because they are not looking for the wage level of the German or English worker, but because they cannot make a living from the wages they earn in Hungary, because the workers' poverty is affecting more and more people in Hungary, because a working couple cannot cope with their yellow checks more than once, and because, together with their family members, the government left 3.5 million people in the mess when they didn't save the foreign exchange loaners, and when, by the way, in a socially insensitive way, they helped people with the highest incomes with the introduction of the end repayment. [[17.20]] It is important to see what measures we can expect from the government now. The first is that we believe that Viktor Orbán should conclude his strategic alliances with the various international corporations in such a way that he requires companies to catch up on wages, that is to say, he expects the leaders of companies to start increasing their Hungarian wages. In view of the fact that Viktor Orbán has taken no steps in this area, life itself has taken place instead of the Prime Minister. When colleagues think, for example, that after a salary increase of HUF 16-20,000 at the Audi, the employees ask for another HUF 55,000 raise and demand for themselves - I note that there is a good chance that they will reach them - their own government has not taken a step forward. They never went to the companies of the German luxury industry established in Hungary to ask for at least something in exchange for non-refundable state subsidies - I note that taxpayers, with the money of Hungarian small people, give this to the government - they never asked for anything in exchange for non-refundable state subsidies, they never told them that the multi-state people working in the automotive industry would raise their wages because they received tens of billions of HUF non-refundable subsidies from the government. It is also important to see that the government has the opportunity and space to influence people's wages by reducing taxes and contributions in a previously demonstrably overtaxed and overloaded economy. It is very important that the minimum wage can increase significantly, and it is very important that Viktor Orbán himself takes action in order to ensure that at least the richest companies regularly carry out the increase in Hungarian employee wages because Hungary will not be able to support large public systems, health care and education from these increasingly shrinking budgetary sources with a noble simplicity. The question arises as to how this can be resolved, what could be the source of these measures. I'll only tell you a few things. Our fiscal balance has improved because all the countries in the region could, like us, improve because of a changing and more favourable international environment. The government saves hundreds of billions of forints each year. Once again, before the government makes it its own merit: in all the countries in the region, this process has taken place due to favourable international developments. This amount can be used to improve wages, to reduce taxes for working people. It is also very important that corruption causes direct damage to the Hungarian economy every year. This amount is only the amount of direct injury. Forint 400 billion is a giganticly high amount of money to be relied on. The Hungarian National Bank has invested more than HUF 260 billion in the foundations named after Pallas Athens. Once again, this is contrary to European practice, it is a spending of money that is not subject to any influence by the State of ownership. Through the person of Mihály Varga, the state as the owner would in principle have a say in spending the profits of the central bank, but the government coalition of Fidesz has decreed that this is no longer legally possible. This could also be a mass of money to support wage increases in Hungary. In addition to many other ideas, last but not least, I now mention only one amount for cutting red tape in the absence of time. When György Matolcsy became Minister of National Economy, he marked the amount of HUF 2800 billion that Hungary spends on bureaucracy annually, and according to the Minister, 30 percent of this amount would be saved roughly HUF 840 billion. However, this has not worked out for the government so far, but there has been a year since 2010 when the government's operating expenses increased by HUF 227 billion. Thus, the Hungarian state keeps its own operation increasingly less efficiently and more expensively. This is just another proof of the government's lack of talent. This would also be an amount that could and should be used to raise the wages of working Hungarians. Last but not least, I would like to draw the attention of my fellow Members to the fact that, if we cannot radically translate the processes so far in Hungary and the government will still not be willing to raise people's wages, instead they will still grant corporate tax relief to the largest and richest foreign companies, then we will achieve the condition that more young people will leave. The trend of the era will be that young people migrate from Hungary and go abroad, and then it will be very, very difficult to reverse this process. For the sake of all of us, I therefore ask the Government to finally make a substantial contribution to the wage increase and to take the measures that we are calling for. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2016-11-23-172	Thank you very much, Congressman. Congresswoman Bernadett Wind, lead speaker of the LMP. Here you go.
u2016-11-23-173	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Today's debate was initiated by the May Other Politics, and we thank the opposition parties for their support. This is how we have been able to bring this very important parliamentary debate day to an end, and I would like to ask my honourable pro-government colleagues not to confuse this debate day with, say, the crimes of the Socialist Government and the crimes of the last eight years. If you want to do such a thing, you should initiate it yourself, you may have enough signatures, you may even fit into the quota, but do not talk about the socialists here, but tell us how you want to solve the wage problems and the problems of emigration in this country. We do not want to hear you scold the Socialist Government from an expensive time; we also have our opinion on it, the Hungarian people have expressed their views on it, and we do not want to hear that. Talk about solutions. The fact is that the disturbance of the Hungarian government was apparent during the summer, when it was discovered that the bomb exploded - to put it this way - and in Hungary there was virtually a general shortage of labour. They started talking all over the place. Minister Mihály Varga, who unfortunately is not with us today on this important day of debate, although this would be essentially his competence and I expected him to be here, began to mention immigration as a solution, while Minister Sándor Pintér, another minister, passed through Parliament a proposal that organised and mass approval of resettlement to various companies in Hungary. I cannot agree with the government explanation that this type of migration in its capacity would be different from any other kind of migration, because here the problem is just as real as everywhere else. The point is that Hungarian people are going abroad because they can't make a living on wages, and you don't want to raise wages, you want to invite foreign workers. Hungary is not a gateway, it is not that the Fidesz government cannot afford to allow Hungarian people to go abroad because of wage problems and others to be called here. That's not how it works! That's not the job of a government. You have one job to do. It is the duty of the government and of all colored governments to enable the citizens of the given nation to prosper. You should have detected the problem of the Hungarian labour market years ago. The signals are coming in. As an opposition representative, in 2012, I received a signal that the economy was becoming labour-deficient. What did you do until the summer of 2016? Nothing at all. They continued the same very bad economic policy as before. Many people asked me in the summer of 2016 to be good, but then what is the solution. And I always said that this wasn't the time to find a solution, but four years earlier, when it was visible that they were leading the country to nothing. But back to Mr. Mihály Varga, he said that he needed to be introduced here. Prime Minister Viktor Orbán came and said that the solution is in family policy. I deeply agree that Hungarian families and all Hungarian families should receive all the existing support, but I apologize, it is 18 years before a child who is now conceived arrives in the labour market, if he goes to higher education, then more, so this cannot be an immediate solution. János Lázár began to talk about the fact that the solution is not immigration, but the job of unemployed people. And then again there was Minister Mihály Varga, who began to talk about reducing contributions. One word, like a hundred, the Hungarian government is talking nonsense. From this point forward, the May Other Politics decided to present everyone's solution to the Hungarian citizens in Parliamentary debate day in order to enable the Hungarian citizens to decide who they want to help in 2018; the person who has been rambling around and starting to deal with the past eight years, which ended six years ago; or the parties or the party that can put normal, feasible, financingable alternatives on the table. Well, this may be different from politics. [[17 .30]] Because we were the party that signed in with a five-point action plan during the summer, and we told you what was the way forward. We have said that the fundamental problem lies in the single-key tax system. To this day, you deny it, and quite simply conceal the fact that you have unleashed a tax system on Hungary that is bad for everyone who earns under average wage. Tell me, fellow Members of the Government, instead of talking to each other, what percentage of Hungarian workers earn under average wage. Seventy percent. In English, you've spotted most of the country. In the meantime, of course, we can hear how much the Hungarian families have been given in family policy. Yeah, top ten percent. And the fact is that Tarki's research has clearly shown that only the top 10 percent can cover an unexpected expenditure in Hungary, otherwise living in civilian well-being. It's not normal for only the top 10 percent to be able to afford things that should be part of a wide middle layer. Meanwhile, the talk continues about the need to look at the good side of emigration, not as a problem. I find it quite outrageous that yesterday, Prime Minister, he said that the person who deals with emigration in a negative way is woeful. That's the expression he used to make a lot of people cry. That's what you said, Prime Minister. Tell that to the Hungarian families who are losing their grandchildren or their own children! When I'm out on the streets, and I'm standing on the streets, there's no family that can come up to me without telling me that he's lost at least one family member. But I was in a Hungarian settlement where I was told to come back between Christmas and New Year's Eve, because then there are young people at home. Because now it's all out in London and all in Germany. That's the kind of condition they've created! After that, I reject the fact that the Prime Minister of Hungary says that the opposition is moaning. Well, please, we see reality the way it is. [[György Balla: All 2 percent of you. Deterioration in the pro-government benches.]] Árpád Habony does not write our speeches to us, but we take our example from reality, and what we present here in the Hungarian Parliament. The thing is, emigration isn't something you can look on the bright side of. You are also talking about the fact that some people here do not understand the words of modern times. I think he doesn't understand the Hungarian people's words, because the Hungarian people clearly said that they can't make a living on such wages. You can see that from everything. In Hungary, you have created a country that if you work 8 hours with integrity, you cannot make a living. I don't think it's okay, and a lot of us think it's not okay at all. I've been trying to take notes of government speeches here. You say that this is a natural process and that every situation can be interpreted in many ways, and that you have achieved little success so far, but there will be further successes, and of course, the past eight years, and so they hide in the international situation, saying that it is not as serious as elsewhere. Please, this is the end of everything that you want to govern this country, and on a parliamentary debate day, you are trying to explain your certificate by making claims that are unprofessional. The thing is, tell that to people who work eight hours of honest work and can't make a living on their wages. It's a full wage crisis that you've been doing here. And the fact is that if the country is in such a crisis, then first we have to look at who and what is responsible for Hungary's current livelihood crisis. We see that the Hungarian government is the number one responsible for this. It is the Hungarian government that specifically built its policy on low wages and attracting foreign working capital. There were other governments that did that. They were called socialist governments. You are doing the same thing as the socialists, you have not changed anything at all, but you have raised corruption to an industrial level, which also lowers wages. By the way, Mr Secretary of State said, or perhaps my fellow Member Czomba, that we are accusing you of having deliberately made bad wages in Hungary. Well, Viktor Orbán recently admitted at a conference that wages were consciously kept low. I quote the Prime Minister. We must admit here in Hungary that an era of economic development has ended, based on the fact that our competitiveness comes primarily from the inexpensiveness of the labour force. This is what Hungary's Prime Minister said, and foreign investments based on it drew the economy. [[Intercoms from the pro-government benches: The era is over, he said.]] In 2016, Viktor Orbán, Prime Minister of Hungary, said that he has been pursuing a completely wrong policy over the past six years. Because I still remember what you do not remember, that in Saudi Arabia, the Hungarian Prime Minister said that he advertised Hungarian workers by saying that, compared to how well-trained we are, how cheap we are. This is how Hungary's Prime Minister Viktor Orbán spoke about us. In addition to the fact that this is deeply offensive, it shows how far they have no idea how much they have to say about the word of modern times, if we go beyond Hungary with a country, and in Austria, where the minimum wage is four times the Hungarian minimum wage, if the Hungarian people can go there relatively simply, then they will leave, and this country will be eliminated. I cannot accept the fact that Prime Minister speaks of the Hungarian people in this way and tries so hard to deny the reality of the Hungarian people. They talked a lot about the Visegrád countries. But they did not say that in 2015, the net Hungarian average wage was 82 percent of the average Slovak wage, 75 percent of the Czech and 75 percent of the Polish average wage. Once again, I note in parentheses that 23,6 percent of the Austrian average wage was Hungarian. The thing is, at the minimum wage, we are the hosts of Visegrád, which means we are the last. So don't talk to me about the dynamic growth of the Hungarian economy. I understand that Árpád Habony wrote this text on your paper, but that's not it! It is worth going to the Visegrád countries for the Hungarian people, because they get more for the same work than they do at home. The Hungarian average wage is also the fifth lowest at EU level, and we can also see it clearly, and now hold on to their chairs, because I can see that they are very nervous [[Deterioration in the pro-government benches.]] Since 2010, since you've been ruling, we've been even more disengaged. In 2010, we were reduced by 8-14 percent from Visegrád's wages, which has since doubled. [[Gábor Bányai: That's not true.]] So you didn't set the missiles on fire, but the other countries around us, and what happened was that during the Fidesz administration, we became a kind of industrial zone for Western Europe. A country has been created, and this should be the time of reckoning for the Fidesz government, when Hungary, virtually half the country, lives on income below the minimum living age. We also see that public wages are below the poverty line, and there are hundreds of thousands of people working in this country. What I have told you, more than two thirds of Hungarian workers do not even earn the average wage. I also referred to you for a newest Tark research, financially safe, virtually only 10 percent of society. Now, where is this bourgeois country you're promoting? The top 10 would have what would be so-called civil, financial security, opportunity, learning and cultural pleasure, like going to the theater or doing something else. Most of Hungary cannot afford this right now. One of the key problems in the situation, as I mentioned, is the application of a single-key tax system. It's called what you do in economics, kinky redistribution. The whole model is perverted because you're basically taking away from the poor and giving this money to the rich. This doesn't make any sense at all, it rips the country apart and creates a state in which it is impossible to stay in the middle class in Hungary, to get up there, and they have actually achieved that even those who were in the middle have gone down to the worse looking layers. Technically, you, the Fidesz government, support the consumption of the rich from the taxes of the poor. It's really not okay. We remember György Matolcsy, he, of course, had the idea that he would start consumption in Hungary like this. Well, for the record, it didn't work. I would also like to point out that we are the second in the EU in the state support of companies. You said in 2010 that after one job, you will not give more than HUF 5 million, and you will have to pay back in five years. Compared to the fact that a multinational now receives HUF 30 million for a job, and to date I have not been able to fully sue for what individual agreements they make with companies because they refuse to tell me. Meanwhile, they practically destroyed small and medium-sized enterprises, and in Hungary a structure of economies has been created that they have fewer than in other countries at European Union level, while they are constantly concluding special agreements with the multinationals; I think they are now in the 74th strategic agreement. We also see that, for the eighth year, the same civil servants' wages and public wages below the poverty line have pushed many Hungarian citizens into poverty and kept them there. We see that fire-fighting attempts, which you started here before the campaign, will not provide a solution. One of their greatest sins, I must mention this as a fifth, is the destruction of education. You see education as a milk cow, as did the socialists. It is no coincidence that the May Other would give 20 out of 100 budget forints to education, because we know exactly where the solution is. The thing is, I can't agree with them saying that the state's role in wages is only through the establishment of the minimum wage and the public sector. And there's the tax system! There's the tax system! They refuse to touch the tax system, even though it was Viktor Orbán who campaigned with the multi-key tax system in 2010. [[17.40]] But my fellow Member, Mr Czomba, has also pointed out that we should focus on MEF rather than institutional statistics. As an opposition representative, you have also been monitoring and working on institutional statistics. You were proud to say that there are only 158 thousand people on the side of the road. You said you wouldn't leave one. How dare you say there are only 158 thousand people there? What do you think you're doing in the Hungarian Parliament? ! One word for it: you have ruined what you can do in the past few days. We expect confessions from you that you are finally willing to introduce a fair tax system, that you are finally willing to implement a wage arrangement in which you are not directing money towards corruption, but towards decent wage increases, to return the 250 billion HUF stolen into education, which we are interested in for the rest of the debate day. Enough with the past eight years and enough of the meringues. [[Intruder from Fidesz: Good night.]] Here's what we came here to do. [[Erzsébet Schmuck applauds.]]
u2016-11-23-174	Now, Honourable Parliament, we have arrived at the end of the speaker's round, and we now have an independent representative to speak to. Congresswoman Timea Szabó has applied for a statement. You have nine minutes. Here you go.
u2016-11-23-175	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen of the Government, Once again, you deny reality, you lie about non-existent wage increases, while there is no one in the country who doesn't see it, who doesn't know that hundreds of thousands of refugees have fled abroad, and the millions that are left here have nothing but modern-day slave labor or a minimum wage. You are responsible for the suffering and deprivation of millions, the breaking up of tens of thousands of families, and you will be punished for that. You lie in your propaganda newscasters that everything is okay at home, you've been lying about wage increases in health care, education, the public sector for years, while you can't even get a magnifying glass from these people you're talking about, the more money in your wallet. Mária Sándor says very aptly that if she watches M1's news much, even she may believe that she has received a raise, although she does not see it in her wallet. While people who look after our children in the nursery, who care for our sick parents, are humiliated with HUF 70,000 a month, while a nurse takes home 100 thousand forints for 12 hours a day at work, while you have voted to raise György Matolcsy's salary to HUF 5 million a month to give Andy Vajna a billion-dollar casino income, but even Antal Rogán could listen without laughing when he talked about the fact that thanks to his wife, he managed to scrape together a good helicopter ride. Well, you've got your wits about you, ladies and gentlemen of the government. Why are you raising Matolcsy's salary to double? Why don't you double the employee's salary? We haven't heard a word about this. This depraved, inhumane politics also manifests itself in official measurements, unfortunately. According to this year's World Economic Forum survey, Hungary's competitiveness has fallen below the levels of Rwanda, Botswana and Macedonia. Education, not only wages and taxes, but also education and health have played a role in the aspects examined. But instead of repairing health care or real wage increases, you, your government, well spent 15 billion forints on an invalid referendum, 80 billion forints on their dirty propaganda newscast or 120 billion forints on preparation for the Paks II investment. The fact is, ladies and gentlemen, as long as you steal, steal and steal, Hungary is under the bottom of the frog. And they're very wrong if they think that the minimum wage increase we've just promised will change this situation and stop the migration. On the one hand, a net promised HUF 84,000 is still below the minimum living. Do you have any idea how much 84,000 forints a month can be achieved? ! Do you understand what it means to have hundreds of thousands of families eat greasy bread for dinner? Do you understand, for example, in single - parent families, what anxiety means by not getting hot food on the table every day or buying medicines for children? But unfortunately, the amount is just one of the problems. Another problem is that businesses will not even be able to pay for this level. The Secretary General of the National Association of Entrepreneurs and Employers said that businesses will not be able to pay these wages because they cannot produce them. Entrepreneurs believe that dismissals, fake contracts, black applications and mass inclusions will be expected in businesses where 75% of employees are employed. Moreover, the minimum wage is only part of the problem. Even millions of earners over the minimum amount of money will not feel anything from the government's actions. Those nurses, patronesses, caterers, kitchen workers, but non-educators or shop-sellers working at school can expect nothing from the government's actions. And if all this wasn't enough, even Viktor Orbán would kick the pensioners a big one this week. While you, KDNP MEPs like Péter Harrach, can take home your several hundred thousand forints pension in addition to your million-dollar salary, only you can do so in the country, while Viktor Orbán is making fun of the people who work their entire lives, who bring home 30-40-60 thousand forints or receive it as a pension. Again, I can say that you are heartless and inhumane, and therefore you will not survive this government for a very long time. You're gonna disappear into the sink. They disappear because we won't let them destroy Hungary. You don't have to give money to your fellow thieves, you have to give it to people, and by people, you have to mean not only wages, but also investment in education and health care. As opposed to the inhumanity of Viktor Orbán and his government, the Dialogue provides a solution to the real increase in wages, the eradication of poverty, the creation of a patient care that actually provides a chance of healing, and the development of education, which will bring immediate improvement to the whole country, which will not only stop migration, but will bring prosperity to millions of people and families, a happier life. [[Péter Cseresnyés: Mátyás Rákosi!]] Some of these are the most important proposals. First, the basic income must be introduced. There must be an end to poverty, to humiliatingly low wages. The basic income would not only help the few hundred thousand people living in poverty you think of, but would help the millions of people who bring home 90 to 100 thousand forints a month at 8-12-14 hours a day. Their salary would be drastically increased thanks to the basic income. In addition, the introduction of the basic income is accompanied by a net minimum wage of HUF 105 thousand. Now, this minimum wage increase is not your fake promise. The Basic Income Proposal for Dialogue is calculated for HUF, it can be introduced as early as next year without an increase in the budget deficit. It is not by accident that György Surányi, former central bank president, supports [[Péter Cseresnyés: We know him!]] However, according to a survey by the Republikon Institute, 76 percent of Hungarians support the introduction of basic income. Listen to the voice of the Hungarian people! Second, let the rich pay more taxes. Your policy is infinitely unfair, that a nurse, a shop salesman, has to pay taxes to the same extent as me or you. I and you have to pay more, we have to put more in common than people who can barely make a living on their monthly income. It is necessary to restore a fair multi-key tax system and to tax luxury assets: helicopters, yachts and things that you have at home, and we know them less. Thirdly, a four-day working week must be introduced. Ladies and gentlemen, The majority of Hungarians have an incredibly poor health condition, mainly due to constant stress, too much work, constant anxiety about living. [[Happy István: In six months, he would be bankrupt.]] We will die sooner than any of the countries of the European Union. According to EU surveys, Hungarians work the most among the Member States after the Greeks, but interestingly this does not appear at all in our competitiveness or our standard of living. More rest, less stress, more time spent with the family is needed by the Hungarians. [[György Balla: That's what we can advise you to do.]] The revolutionary idea you're laughing at now, not as revolutionary a hundred years ago, people like you were laughing about not having to work seven days a week, but six, fifty years ago, and not six, but five. Thanks to the development of robotics and technology, the world is going to the exact point where, with the same competitiveness and even stronger competitiveness, we can work less with the same productivity. And last but not least, we need to stop the fidesz destruction of health care immediately. In order for this country to succeed, in order to stop migration, it is necessary not only to improve wages, but also to improve the health situation and the situation of education. [[17.50]] Every Hungarian must have a chance at a healthy and long life! There's no way rich people will pay for good health, because you have money for this, and the poor can go to the poor hospital. No way, fellow Members of the House of Fidesz. You need to put the stolen money back right away. [[Noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] health care, providing wages for health workers [[Intercoms from the pro-government benches The president's ringing.]] ensure the provision of facilities to hospitals. [[György Balla: Time's up! Dr. István Nagy: Expired album!]] If there's no health, there's nothing. Fellow Members...
u2016-11-23-176	Please, just stop.
u2016-11-23-177	... instead of laughing...
u2016-11-23-178	Thank you very much.
u2016-11-23-179	...accept the suggestions of the Dialogue...
u2016-11-23-180	Dear Congresswoman...
u2016-11-23-181	...because they won't know...
u2016-11-23-182	... please...
u2016-11-23-183	... tostop the exodus. [[György Balla intervenes.]] Thank you.
u2016-11-23-184	Dear Parliament, It's nothing new, but they've only worked two and a half days this week - they're having a relatively difficult time dealing with each other. [[Defiance.]] [[Defiance.]] Think about how long this week is going to be. So they will receive the subsequent speakers accordingly, because I know how the order follows, and you do not yet, so I said that I would ask you for more patience, and so I would ask Mr Nándor Gúr (Delightfulness). I give you the floor. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] Here you go.
u2016-11-23-185	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I'm just giving you the headlines. From a labour market point of view, 600,000 very important people were expelled from this country, while Mihály Varga's first thought was that we would replace it from third countries, whether it was 100, 200, 250 thousand people. They also know that what they are talking about in terms of minimum wages, they talked about it for five years, they didn't give it, they took it, they had less money in their pockets. His gross was increased by 51 percent, his net was 22 percent, and aggregate inflation was 17-18 percent, so they didn't give anything, they took it away. They also know that they have created a situation where in Hungary the workers' poverty has grown over the past six years. 1.4 million people live, of those who work, of minimum wage or less, 2.2 million people who work, and that is the sum of the minimum living per person. That's what you've been doing. This is the world you've brought to life. That's what needs to be changed. Obviously, in order to change this, a pay-receiving programme must be carried out which does not begin to compensate for the shortcomings of the past period, but outweighs it and gives the consideration of real work into the hands, ensuring a decent basis for living. [[Szabó Timea is leaving the meeting room. Intercoms from the ranks of the governing parties.]] On the other hand, attention must be paid to what you are not paying attention to in the seventh year, to the fact that, adapted to the needs of the labour market, there should be a large number of people who have been blessed in their hands or in their heads on the labour market, Hungarian workers should fill the Hungarian employment opportunities and do not want to bring people in from abroad. [[György Balla intervenes.]] As a last thought, I would just like to say that we should pay attention to strengthening mobility within Hungary, and not to [[The president's ringing the bell.]] give the Hungarians space to go abroad to work. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2016-11-23-186	Thank you. Congresswoman Bernadett Wind, LMP, two minutes.
u2016-11-23-187	The two-minute genre is traditionally a reaction, and therefore I would like to ask my fellow Member Hollik to tell Árpád Habony that it does not work, that we begin to compare countries with different geographical locations mechanically. [[Intercoms from the pro-government benches.]] Greece and Hungary have completely different talents, but it is certain that they made a serious mistake there, just as we made a serious mistake in Hungary: there the Union and the IMF had to accept their dictatorships, but here in Hungary you have unleashed on us the Kálmán Széll plan, which was aggravated by Matolcsy. [[Intercoms from the pro-government benches.]] and which can also be interpreted as a serious Orbán package, at least in terms of its austerity, which, in turn, has been a serious problem in the fact that, as a barrier to wage growth, Hungary's emigration has so to speak, exploded. So this connection can be found between the two countries. By the way, please, get off the Greeks, because they're talking about things that make a man's hair stand up. [[Z. Carpathian Daniel: Mine too! Definitely. György Balla: That's what I was going to say!]] And I'd like to tell KDNP that it's a psychiatric illness they're doing. [[Dániel Z. Carpathian intervenes. The president's ringing the bell.]] You claim that the reason for emigration is the Western European wage level, so once again: the Hungarian emigration is due to the Western European wage level. Well, I don't know where that nonsense came from. The reason for the emigration in Hungary is the wage level in Hungary, so I hope I do not say anything new. We cannot change the wage level in Western Europe, but we can change it in Hungary. [[György Balla: The President was right! There's an improvement in the pro-government benches.]] Until now, the representatives of the Hungarian government and the various Fidesz representatives have told us nothing about how they can or how they intend to stop emigration, but they have said that they believe that mobility is low in Hungary. No, of course not. Half the country is now going abroad. I don't understand where you guys got the disk stuck. The problem in Hungary is no longer the lack of mobility, but the fact that there is too much mobility and because people do not live in Hungary. [[Interjection: That's what the Gur said, I'm sorry.]] So I would ask you to try to focus on the problem in the second round, in the lead speaker group, and to solve it, because that is why we came together in the Hungarian Parliament today. [[Intercoms from the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-11-23-188	Thank you very much. Congressman Alexander Czomba, Fidesz, in two minutes.
u2016-11-23-189	Thank you very much for the floor. We have been told by our socialist fellow Members to have a net minimum wage of HUF 100,000. I would like to ask whether you have found a partner - because this has been said a year ago - a single trade union or only one employer's representative who would have supported this. [[Peter Cseresnyés: That's right! That's right!]] Do you know what that would do? Because in his statement before him, he said that there was a huge shortage of workers, and that in some way it could be... SMEs are primarily feared. You know, what if the net minimum wage was 100,000 forints from one moment to the next? [[Dr. László Varga: Make it tax-free!]] Therefore, caution and caution must be exercised. [[Zoltán Haughty interrupts.]] Wages, by the way. I would like to draw attention to multinational companies, there was no need for government intervention, no need for anyone; trade unions sat down, multinational companies saw what was going on and raised wages by 10, 15, 20-25 percent [[Happy Stephen: That's right!]] It doesn't matter what we agreed on for a round table anyway, they're raising wages because we need it. It was also said here that the classification was in 2010. Ladies and gentlemen, you have raised public debt from 53 percent to 80 percent in a fleeting six years. We grew on credit, and we made a good living on credit - is that what we would be proud of or proud of? So let's not do that. [[György Balla: Now I have to pay you back!]] We're still moaning the price of that, aren't we? The fact that the PM speaker after our fellow Member, Szabó Timea... now I understand why the PM is keeping me where it is. [[Deterioration in the pro-government benches.]] So this kind of comment... How do I put this? I can't even react. With regard to the Greek issue, I would also like to point out to Bernadett Wind that the unemployment rate in Greece is very high, but if we have a guaranteed minimum wage increase within two years, we will get there - then we will get there! - that it will be around 600 euros, which is the guaranteed minimum wage for the Greeks at the moment. That's something you and your team of experts need to think about. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-11-23-190	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, On behalf of the Government, State Secretary Csaba Dömötör, State Secretary of the Cabinet Office of the Prime Minister asked for the floor. Here. [[Dr. László Varga: Let's hear the propaganda story.]]
u2016-11-23-191	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I would like to start by saying that this debate day, the fact of this debate, is an indirect admission that the government and Hungary are on the right track in terms of job creation. [[Dr. István Józsa: Otherwise they wouldn't have raised it, that's right!]] I say this because it has not been long since you asked for the purpose of creating jobs and the results. In 2014, Nándor Gúr said that the unemployment rate was down. [[Dr. István Józsa: Distributed!]] Not so long ago, Mr. Bernadett Wind said that the government does not have a programme capable of creating real jobs. [[Dr. Wind Bernadett: Not now, hold!]] I would like to inform you that compared to 2010 [[Dr. Wind Bernadett, I'll hold.]] There are 680,000 people working in Hungary [[Dr. Wind Bernadett intervenes.]] [[Dr. Wind Bernadett intervenes.]] 680 thousand more work in Hungary - we are talking about job creation, Congresswoman (Dr. Bernadett Szél intervenes) - and a significant proportion of these jobs are linked to the market sector. [[Dr. István Józsa intervenes.]] As far as working abroad is concerned, you have just said that Members should get off the Greeks here. I would ask you to get off the Hungarian workers, get off the Hungarians! We ask you, because you insult the Hungarians, it is unacceptable that they insult Hungarians who work abroad [[Dr. Wind Bernadett: That's the new slogan!]] who used to settle the country by opening a bakery in Vienna. These Hungarian people make use of the EU acquis and work abroad [[Z. Kárpát, Dániel: Obviously without any coercion, just by themselves! Dr. Wind Bernadett intervenes.]] And after that, you will be accountable to the government, and you will be accountable to the Hungarians who will stand up and help their own families by sending them home. [[Dr. István Nagy: Have you asked them what they think?]] The four points of the MSZP. I was very, very surprised at these four points, because it is strange that those who had a gross gross wage of 73 thousand forints demand a higher minimum wage. [[Dr. László Varga: And by the way, it was tax-free! Peter Cseresnyés: How do you know? It wasn't tax-free!]] By 2018, this figure could be 138 thousand forints. Count the difference. [[Intercoms.]] As far as the pension increase is concerned, you have relaxed the lifting system that is now being called to account. And as far as pensions are concerned, it is an important fact that you took a month's wages from the elderly. [[Dr. István Józsa: We gave it to you! We gave it to you!]] [[18.00]] They may also have a proposal for energy prices. This is strange because during your governance, the price of electricity has doubled and the price of gas has tripled, and it was this government that reduced the price of energy by 25 percent, and we want to maintain this reduction. [[Dr. László Varga: Every time you say it, world market prices are lower. I don't know what you're gonna take to be like this. He's unconscious! Trenched yourself at home?]] As regards the VAT reduction, I would like to inform you - it seems that in the midst of much yelling there will be no energy left to monitor the essential facts and measures - that from January this year the VAT on the most important food will be reduced. I would like to ask you if you supported this. [[Dr. István Józsa: We demanded it!]] Supported? Take a closer look at the report, I'd like to say. As regards the LMP's speech, I have an interest in listening to Congresswoman Wind about which Member of Parliament should or should not talk about. It's a democracy. [[Dr. László Varga: It is clear that there is such freedom of speech that it is ready! I'm being televised right now.]] Every MP can talk about whatever they want, even if you don't like it. You can express your opinion at any time, even if you regularly misinformed the Hungarian public. [[Dr. István Józsa: Is it better to listen?]] As far as resettlement is concerned, I very much hope that when you talk about resettlement, you do not Ukrainianize the Transcarpathian Hungarians. I really wish you wouldn't join the MSZP. We remember well what they did in 2004. [[Applause from the pro-government ranks. Dr. László Varga: When did this happen, old man?]] How is it that the party... [[Dr. László Varga: You're full of shit, you should be ashamed of yourself.]] How is it that the party that is one of the supporters of the forced resettlement in Brussels is calling for resettlement? Look at how your MEP supported this proposal and voted for it in the European Parliament, by the way. [[Dr. László Varga: The most beautiful thing is that the dog hasn't chosen you for anything, and that's where you're smart.]] How do you talk about resettlement if you stand by and let thousands of people be deployed to Hungary on the basis of decisions taken elsewhere? How? ! You may have asked us to talk about the solution. [[Dr. Wind Bernadett:]] I wouldn't be involved in this class-warrior chasing, which you're doing here in Parliament and elsewhere, but I certainly think that the LMP's radical tax lifting plan is not a solution to anything, it's not a solution to anything. You know very well that a multi-key tax system would be introduced again, and we already know what the consequences of this have been. We remember the time when the highest tax rate was 38 percent. Now the highest tax rate is 15%. [[Dr. István Józsa: Many are happy about it!]] Calculate the difference and then talk about how this affects Hungarian families! [[Dániel Z. Carpathian: New rich friends rejoice!]] [[President Tamás Sneider, Vice-President of the National Assembly.]] On the other hand, as far as the essential solution is concerned, and they did not talk about it at all, they did not follow the news. I would also like to protect Minister Mihály Varga. I'd like to inform you that you've been through hard negotiations, you've been fighting for wage increases these days. [[Dr. Wind Bernadett:]] and reached an agreement. We do not expect to thank you for this, we understand that you have political intentions, but I would like to say here that next year the minimum wage will increase by 15 percent in Hungary and the minimum wage for skilled workers by 25 percent. There was talk of doctors. I am very sorry that Mrs Szabó Timea is only interested in these subjects until she can say her own words, but she does not wait for the answer. If I remember correctly, he worked in the hospital, I don't know exactly what he was doing, but he was working. [[Dr. Wind Bernadett: He was a volunteer. Z. Kárpát, Dániel: More than you!]] Therefore, we would also ask him to inform the health care workers that if the doctor's wages increase by HUF 207 thousand at two paces. As far as nurses are concerned, nurses' wages are increasing by 65 percent at several rates. There will be a 50 percent increase for law enforcement workers and a total of 50 percent more for education workers so that we don't talk about employees in government offices and district offices. No one claims that these measures are sufficient in themselves. We can't sit back at all, there's a lot more to do. [[Dr. Wind Bernadett: I'm getting scared!]] But what we want is for those who live from work in Hungary - and there are more and more of them, 680 thousand more - to take a step forward in their own lives. We ask your support for this work. Thank you for listening. [[Applause from the pro-government ranks.]]
u2016-11-23-192	Welcome, fellow Members. State Secretary Péter Cseresnyés has checked in. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary. [[Dr. Wind Bernadett: Oh, my God, now let's take notes.]]
u2016-11-23-193	Thank you very much. Mr President, Yeah, a lot of people didn't hear it, but I'd like to say what Wind Bernadett said. To take notes now. Note to me, Congresswoman, that is my request, because what you have said here does not stand the test of reality. I've had to tell you a lot about your speech. What you can see is that the figures, the data, are trying to shape by confirming the self-confirmation that someone has made up somewhere and is trying to please people, trying to suggest that there has been no change in employment in Hungary over the past period in terms of wages. It has been said on many occasions that there have been demonstrably, noticeably significant, positive changes in both employment policy and wages in Hungary. He denies people who otherwise bring more money home, for the money they bring home, they can earn more. You have missed in your speech that there are no solutions or solutions you have not heard, or if you will hear comments in the next debate, you will be waiting for the solutions that the government has done or the representatives on the government side who are sitting in our group. I'm sorry he wasn't here at the expo. He came later. [[Dr. Wind Bernadett: That's not true, that's actually a lie!]] I guess you didn't hear the expo. [[Dr. Wind Bernadett: I was sitting in my seat!]] For about 30 minutes, I have listed the measures that we have taken over the past period in order to stabilise and strengthen employment, while increasing the economy in terms of wage growth, by means of a major employment policy package, increase wages, and, above all, increase the real value of wages in terms of wage growth. I would like to say a few of these measures: we have made changes to vocational training, for example, so that vocational training can be better suited to labour market needs. Don't tell me this didn't happen the way I'm saying it did. We did it in cooperation with the Hungarian Chamber of Commerce and Industry, the representative and advocacy organization of businesses, so we did it in cooperation with those who live on the market, who are directly related to the labour market. They just know what they want or what they need, and I think they know better than you, who, I'm telling you, do not know where they are, who have expressed their opinions here in Parliament. You said it, I didn't say it. In addition, we have taken significant measures to promote employment. I'm just gonna point out one thing, the job security operation. It supports the employment of 900,000 people every day, and, as has already been said, it has left more than HUF 450 billion in businesses, including to enable employers to raise wages or employ more people. So you can see that we have taken a number of measures that you may deny, both in the area of employment and in the area of wage increases. I would like to refer to the fact that we also need to see where we started. You like to forget this, and you always say, especially socialist Members, that we should not hesitate to talk about the last six years. But if they've destroyed something, they've ruined something. [[Zoltán Grimlock: The only problem is that it's not true!]] It can be built on a completely different basis than building something on something. [[Dr. Laszlo Varga: You're doing something stupid!]] You left a non-functioning economy, destroyed our economy, significantly increased our debt, almost tripled it. [[Zoltán Grimlock: I will be fired for this, because the Orbán said that everything is fine.]] This problem that you have caused, we have had to solve it, and we have solved it in a way that is not the case, for example, in Greece. [[Zoltán Grimlock: You stole half the country!]] still facing a major economic crisis and still dealing with a serious, almost unsolvable problem in the area of employment [[Zoltán Grimlock: Kósa once said the same thing, watch out, the forint will fall again!]] The Hungarian economy is moving forward, employment has increased, while real wages have been increasing steadily for three and a half years or more than three and a half years. At a time when you were a European economy, when the Hungarian economy could have worked, you could not have done so. During the six-year operation of the Gyurcsány-Bajnai government, you have been able to produce a real wage reduction for three years, while taking on significant loans, financing the Hungarian state with loans, while selling significant amounts of state assets, and also reducing real wages, while slowly destroying the Hungarian economy, by handing over in 2010 to the next government, the next Orbán government, in a state of bankruptcy. [[Dr. László Varga: This is huge bullshit!]] That should therefore be the starting point, my fellow Members, and always look in the mirror at the criticisms that you make here in Parliament. You should not be accountable to you for anything without looking in the mirror before you, what you have done to keep the Hungarian economy, the Hungarian society, where you can now hold me. We can talk about results, results in economic growth, debt reduction, employment policy, wage policy. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Zoltán Grimlock: It was a big fake! Applause from the pro-government ranks.]]
u2016-11-23-194	Ladies and gentlemen, We're going back to a normal circle. As a result, I give the floor first to Mr Jenő Manninger. [[18.10]]
u2016-11-23-195	Thank you very much. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, It was said that we should preferably argue on a professional basis and not point back at the past. [[Dr. István Józsa: Don't hold him.]] But since the previous speeches were not only criticisms, but also explicit abuse of the governing party [[Dr. László Varga: Wow! What kind of thing is that?]] I have no doubt to mention some of the events related to the previous period, which are clear because their slanderous speech is based on incorrect data. Perhaps the most demagogue, no doubt, that perhaps - we can no longer remember their names - he was the speaker of the Dialogue for Hungary. [[Gábor Bellozó: I haven't spoken yet!]] His speech doesn't deserve much time, about what he usually spends in Parliament, but we are glad that he made it to Parliament because he couldn't come in to present it the other day, at least now he has said his speech. The most demagogue, no doubt. According to him, minimum wage increases are low, but this minimum wage increase is too much for entrepreneurs. [[Zoltán Pride: Because the government wins again, no one else! How much did you lose?]] So he couldn't fix it the same way he did the rest, so I don't want to talk about any other abuse. I have to repeat it in the speeches of the MSZP because they say, in vain, that we should not refer back to those 8 years, but after they start from it and keep saying that the reason for the emigration of the labour force, the Hungarian economic policy, which the Orbán government has been pursuing since 2010, and the Hungarian wage level, is the reason why it should be returned. As Secretary of State Péter Cseresnyés said, I can connect with the data, Tarki data, by the way. I think they're experts who have also inspired the opposition to be respected. Between 2003 and 2009, there was a period when the growth of the Hungarian economy was clearly lagging behind, and as a result wages were also lost. In 2009, the tax wedge was the highest among the Visegrad countries as well.In 2002, when the first Orbán government ended, and thanks to this, Hungary was directly behind the Czech Republic in almost all economic indicators among the Visegrad countries for another year. And this has changed in 2009; indeed, in 2010, when we turned, there is no doubt that even Slovakia and Poland have preceded us in most economic indicators and wages. This was a fact that occurred in 2010. It is possible to talk about what is going on now, but the fact is that this situation has come up until 2009, as has the Western countries, especially Germany, reacted much better to the economic crisis, and in the area of wages we can see that the differences have only increased. It can be said that, although there is no doubt that the economic crisis played a role in the period 2003-2009, Hungary reacted worst during the socialist governments at the time, and we started with the greatest disadvantage. It is clear, and this must be said, because I think that the LMP wants to focus on professionalism, so it always tells us that workers are being chased out of the country. First of all, there is a real wage difference, but if we want to look at it professionally, and if you want to do a professional analysis - this is certainly not a place for plenary - then it is clear that, unfortunately, we should also look at productivity, and if we look at it, we are referring to productivity, then unfortunately I have to say that the lower wages in Hungary and the Visegrád countries are also due to this in some respects. So this cannot be clearly changed only by government means. Government tools are needed. He heard such things in the previous speeches. I can therefore say that, as the previous speakers have stated, it is a great achievement that we can talk about the situation in the labour market, why there is not enough labour force and not unemployment. We can talk about the reasons for this. The fact that the economy has been on the growth path since 2013 is constantly increasing employment primarily in the competitive sector, unemployment is falling, wages are rising, labour demand is rising. The number of people employed was 4 million to 391 thousand, and the number of unemployed fell to 226 thousand. I also have to say here that it is obvious that there are facts - we can also mention international comparisons - that affect Europe as a whole, that the main international trend is clearly pointing to an increase in labour shortages around the world, in particular a significant shortage of professionals. The analysis of this situation must also show that it is the same in the West. Labour shortages in more developed countries generate an increasing degree of international labour mobility. This is also the reason for the emigration of the workforce. Another reason is the negative demographic trend, and, of course, I would like to summarize the most important aspects of saving time that have been said, but it should be mentioned that in Hungary, it is worth analysing that due to low unemployment, we can say that there is a quantitative deficit, but if we take public employment and high inactive stocks into account, we also have a significant workforce reserve in Hungary. Between the inactive and those in the public sector, it can be concluded that a significant proportion of them are not fit to work in the competitive sector. These aspects need to be looked at, and there really are problems. These problems have also been mentioned, but let me list them. There is no doubt that a significant proportion of the unemployed, about two thirds of them, do not have a secondary or 8-grade degree, is a real problem. There is no doubt that there are regional disparities, primarily between the East and the West, but South-West Hungary is one of them. There is no doubt that the vocational training system needs to be renewed, and there is no doubt that the decline in population will also adversely affect this situation. At the same time, I have to say that if the opposition parties' speeches are being studied, they clearly show that all of these questions have been answered by the government and all of them are addressed in the government's agenda. So it is also true that, for example, skills are not likely to be solved in a year. Usually, the exit of such persons requires at least a minimum period of school, but usually a longer period. So we can expect results when the results of this come in. So I think that all of these details can be discussed, I do not say that the vocational training system is still functioning perfectly, it is obvious that this needs to be constantly improved, but the government has responded to it, as opposed to the previous governments, which have practically led to the fact that vocational training did not take place according to labour market needs. These are mobility problems, and indeed, as the LMP speaker has said, mobility is a problem, and mobility is helped by the government, since tax instruments, tax subsidies and accounts, which are not listed now, have been put in place and are making it easier for the country to move, and this is extremely necessary, which is already in place, but can be facilitated, since there is a significant migration from the eastern part of the country to the western part of the country. Obviously, these instruments can still be refined, we can go further, we must go further, we can consider how employers can be involved in the home creation programme, so there is more to be done in all these areas. All in all, I can say that the absurdities from which I can react, that they feel nothing from wage increases, mean that those who say such things are not among the people. It is never enough to raise wages, no doubt, from the point of view of the workers, but it is 60 thousand forints, or even among nurses in my area, that I know very well that everyone's wages have been raised in the institutions between 17 and 67 thousand forints; this is precisely what a Hungarian worker knows and for a significant amount of money. Of course, we cannot say that all of these alone will solve the fact that these wages should be such as to stay at home, but they can already be observed, I can tell you that there is already a certain sign of the return of labour, but we can also see it in the region. This is not necessarily due to an increase in the minimum wage, since they do not come back, but there is such a phenomenon. [[18.20]] And let me conclude with one example that the government can also respond with rapid programs to the biggest labour problems: they say that there are about 6,000 empty transport spaces, a state programme has just launched a training that costs about half a million to train transporters in county vocational training centres with OKJ training. I think that many of these measures are needed, and then this situation will certainly improve, and hopefully we can continue to debate how we judge the development of the economy in the future. Thank you for your attention. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2016-11-23-196	Thank you. I now give the floor to Congressman Zoltán Gőgös.
u2016-11-23-197	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, We have heard a lot of interesting things here from my fellow Members and people who have never worked a minute in their lives. [[Intercoms from the pro-government benches.]] At least in a normal, serious job. I'm gonna help you get to know what life is. [[Intercoms from the Fidesz ranks, among them: Come on! Life coaching!]] and how much work it takes to have at least 80,000 forints. But that's not what I'm trying to piss you off about, because it's mutual anyway, so these debate days really don't make any sense. [[Moore in the pro-government benches. Dr. Pál Völner: You asked for it!]] 'Cause we're not gonna convince each other, but at least a few people can be called to death, I'm gonna say again, people who share Estonian, but haven't seen a job at close range - a normal job, I mean, because it's not really. As far as emigration is concerned, we in the area of Pope see this in a very sharp way. Where the philosophy that you started after 2010 led you to is the best example of the Pope's Meat Factory. At the Papal Meat Factory, there was a successful liquidation process, and then the factory started to work, and then the Fidesz government came along and increased its burden about four times in one year. All taxes are included in this, my fellow Members, not only by making a mandatory minimum wage increase without giving a penny of compensation, and by not giving the employees a cent plus, and the next day they complained to the director that everyone here was saying what a minimum wage increase it was. [[Dr. Pál Völner: Superbrutto!]] But it didn't add up to a penny to make sense of it. Then the food security inspection fee came in, the transaction fee came in - I don't want to list the 628 taxes that weren't passed, but the company threw in the towel within a year and a half. When you talked to well-trained professionals there, because the whole food processing culture is a hundred years old in the city, they said that if we were to make HUF 150,000 net - this was around 2011-12 - we would probably not go to Austria to work and pay rent for 300,000. Now, if you don't finally understand that you don't have to raise the minimum wage while the burden on businesses is rising, then this won't have the effect of coming back to work because there won't be any jobs. Now I understand that there are a lot of jobs, that's what they say, but there are hundreds of thousands of them that exist on paper, the public workers, where it's a problem now that they can't go to seasonal work, because some mayors expressly forbid that there should be a normal movement, and that's why people from abroad should be brought in, let's say, in Tokaj's Mountains, to get the grapes off at all. So this situation should be dealt with together in some way, and if we are already organizing public work, which is obviously a necessity in certain areas, because the state may be the only employer, at least make sense, because if there is normal public work, then at least we are giving the minimum wage. My fellow Members, I have seen how much the two huge minimum wage increases will be, with a net minimum wage of HUF 91,000 in 2018. 91,000 forints! This thing needs to be dealt with in a completely different way. In general, low income categories are not taxed or benefits are granted to businesses, just in order to maintain at least net what is intended for gross purposes. It's not gonna depend on the budget situation, it's gonna have to be a little less wasted and maybe a helicopter ride or something, and then it's not gonna be covered. So if you want it to be a normal world, you have to see why you can pay much, much more for the same tape-based work in Western Europe. One of the reasons for this is, once again, that the labour force is completely different. Today, we are talking about someone on a bus in Kapuvar in the morning, going to Austria, working ten hours, but making a thousand euros in a greenhouse. No one here says there's a thousand euros to be paid immediately in a greenhouse, but it's also a joke that they're gonna announce it by four o'clock because now they had to raise the minimum wage. So we should just think about this, fellow Members, that this philosophy, to push the minimum wage in gross terms, to earn as much income as possible for the state, while I am giving you 5% - once again when there is 70 percent withdrawal - discount, it is not certain that it is a successful way. And the reason it's not a success is because we can't really keep the skilled, qualified workforce at home. The phenomenon is that it has started from our western part - I say that we are relatively close to the western border - the labour force flows to Austria and to us and to East Hungary on some level, but who will be in East Hungary? What about the villages? What about the tumultuous houses? Here they built an apartment park in Ocsai instead of creating a village rehabilitation program and, say, using the vacant village houses as a public apartment. It may not even be necessary to buy it, it would be enough to have a well-organized system in which owners could invest empty houses abandoned by their elderly parents. Why can't you start such a program, and why can't you at least help the village picture and keep the people there in place? I think, since we are discussing this once, we should argue about it, and perhaps in Northern Hungary we should not give the children a ski break, but in autumn they should have free time to go to the woods with their parents, because they live from someone who doesn't know. So I think that consensus should be sought in these matters, and maybe there could be some normal outcome, because otherwise, we have a good conversation together and nothing happens. Well, we'll be partners for that, if you want, but certainly not for cutting. Thank you very much.
u2016-11-23-198	I now give the floor to Congressman Peter Agh.
u2016-11-23-199	Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Allow me, however, to respond to what our MSZP fellow Member has said, but to go back to the subject he is dealing with today, and in this context, I think it is important to examine what steps have been taken in one area in order to strengthen that area, we can provide that area in a safe way that might be suitable for thinkers to see an opportunity in that particular field. In this way, as a member of the Defence and Police Committee, I would like to comment on this subject in this field. The salary of soldiers and policemen has always risen substantially only under the Fidesz governments. I think we can say that. No major wage increases have been made to professional law enforcement personnel since 2000, while the wages of soldiers increased in 2002 under the first Fidesz government. The government considered it one of the priorities of the years following the 2010 elections to create a state that serves the interests of the common good, the nation and the community instead of the individual. This approach integrates the new career models and the career model of the military and law enforcement personnel. With effect from 1 July 2015, a new police and military career has been introduced, resulting in an average increase of 50 per cent by 2019. Both ministries provide a wide range of benefits other than salaries for staff members, ranging from birth support to rent contribution. The law enforcement and defence staff also received the salary increase with satisfaction, and newcomers are offered even more attractive conditions. Thus, the wage increase had a positive impact on the number of both stocks, as there is a steady increase in the number of entrants compared to the previous year. Hungary is living in the years of an emerging era, and in 2017 we can take a step forward. [[Z. Carpathian Daniel applauded: Long live the party! Long live the party!]] This can also be said in the area of security, because the government has been developing this area for years, thus guaranteeing the safety of Hungarian people, strengthening public security and, in this context, the reputation of the two stocks. [[18.30]] Due to recent terrorist acts in Europe and the simultaneous migration crisis associated with them, the government had to give priority to this area. Ladies and gentlemen, Speaking of migration, the Hungarian left, like many leaders in Brussels, thought, and I think that today, too, immigration is a good opportunity to tackle population and labour market problems. The Hungarian Government disputes this position. We'll do the same, we'll debate it. The Socialists also imagined the shortage of labour and the reduction of shortages with migrants, because they proposed measures, already under their governance, in 2007, to facilitate migration of migrants. However, opposition representatives also spoke about inclusion and integration in the current illegal immigration crisis. Even so, the country's security or social composition has not been addressed, nor have we seen it in the context of the migration crisis. Following the terrorist attacks in Europe, the government is still being attacked instead of reviving their misguided ideas and supporting the government's actions. Ladies and gentlemen, In conclusion, I see that, as a member of the Defence and Police Committee, in the area of our professional body, the government has taken serious steps to provide an attractive alternative to accessing the stocks, thereby contributing to the strengthening of the working and working forces serving at home. And as this has happened in the field of defence and police, I think that a number of other areas can be highlighted, where career models have been introduced, for which I believe it can be said that the government is working to make every career attractive, which is the service of the state. In areas where the State is not the employer, and where continuous measures are taken to ensure that the conditions for employment can be as favourable as possible. To this end, I believe that a number of decisions have been made in recent days, too. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-11-23-200	Thank you. I now give the floor to Secretary of State István Nagy.
u2016-11-23-201	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Allow me to answer the thoughts of my honourable fellow Member with a few words, since he has raised something that needs to be said quite seriously. Agriculture is actually a disadvantaged business in labour. But when you mention the papal meat industry, my dear fellow Member, one must be stated. The stakes in the last few years were whether the factory would survive. [[Zoltán Grimlock: That's right!]] whether thousands of people will have jobs, and I have to report to you that this obstacle has been successfully taken, the papal factory has been found. [[Zoltán Grimlock: This will be in a year, Pista!]] It has a new owner, we hope that it can continue to employ people there, we hope that technological renewal will take place, we hope that it will find markets where it can provide people with adequate wages. But we also need to talk about another issue, exactly what you said about the Kapuvars, about leaving and picking peppers or tomatoes in Austria. [[To interrupt Zoltán Haughty:]] My dear fellow Member, how much does a kilo of peppers or a kilo of tomatoes cost in Austria? And if we add this to Hungarian tomatoes or Hungarian peppers [[Zoltán Grimlock: It's not much more expensive!]] Then it does raise serious questions. The same with bakers, a kilo of bread in Austria and a kilo of bread in Hungary. It is therefore an infinite question of where to find a balance, when to do good, how to push it up, to raise the level of wages that comes up in products, at a broad population. So we can basically start a small ball that will not end, because with a hundred thousand forints extra payment, you can buy less if you adjust the price of the products. So we need to find the right balance and proportions in the market and turnover of agricultural products to enable us to buy as much as possible in the consumer basket, because the only way to compare an Austrian wage that we earn there is to be honest, the Hungarians are slaves there, because they are arguing about who will be cheaper than Polish or Romanian migrant workers, or who can find a job there. If we look at the rules they're working on, we can't be entirely proud, and neither are they, because they're suffering from the way they work here. But you have to see who gets more and who can get more from the money earned in Hungary or from the money earned in Austria in the end of the shopping basket. So in this spirit you can compare these things. Thank you very much. [[Zoltán Gőgös: The Austrian Aldi is cheaper than the Hungarian!]]
u2016-11-23-202	I now give the floor to Mr Dániel Z. Carpathian.
u2016-11-23-203	Mr President, Dear House, In recent times, we have heard a number of amazing party state horse-zungcunams, and, yes, several opposition representatives have noted that our hair was on fire from what you have said. Even mine would've been on fire, but we have to say, the exotic tax environment that you've done in terms of ruining the economy is really thinning your match. Speaking of hair, we could bring the shampoo tax here; for example, I am certainly not biased on this issue when I criticize your new types of taxes. The accounting profession knows more than 60 of these, 60 types of new tax types or tax increases introduced from 2010. To give one or two examples: you liked to levy the transaction fee, this is a type of tax, by the way, it was baptized as a levy so that you wouldn't have to box so much in Brussels for it. Then they allowed the financial institutions concerned, who should have paid for this, not only to pass this on to the customers, to the citizens, but it was in the case of Hungarian small businesses, when the financial institution took it backwards, there were times when it took more than the justified one. Similarly, it is similar in terms of almost all sectoral special taxes. In recent times, when our Fidesz fellow Member conducted a quick analysis of the fact that, well, these evil socialists and Balliberians would indeed replace population shortages from imported populations, and they see this solution in terms of both labour shortages and demographic vacuums, I cannot argue with that very much. I can imagine a lineup where they'd side with them. The problem is that in the last six years, you have not talked about it by the Balliberians and not by the Socialists, but by the Minister of National Economy of Mihály Varga, which is rather harsh because you have only submitted seasonally imported labour from a third country, Fidesz-KDNPs have submitted a relevant bill that will facilitate the seasonal labour force for multi-enterprises, where you, Fidesz-KDNPs, thought it important to say that we should not be afraid, do not worry too much, because they are bringing labour from a third country from which the integration of arrivals is smoother. So I don't know why anyone needs to talk about their integration in seasonal work, but you have committed this insolence and you have not abandoned the plan, at least not withdrawn these ministerial statements under which you were talking about importing labour. I go further: I don't need to protect the Balliberal side and I can't identify with it in any way, but they didn't sign a final document on the implementation of the compulsory resettlement mechanism. So the big deal is that this is your responsibility, you committed it, and the national economy is still considered to be a market, because Jobbik has submitted the basic law-modifying proposal that is one and the same as the amendment of the fundamental law of Fidesz-KDNP, and we pushed it with a lousy little sentence. This lousy little sentence is all the more important, it would be about eliminating your residency bond business and taking it out, so not only the poor migrant but also the rich migrant should not come to Hungary. You have not yet supported the inclusion of this motion in the series, so you have said no to your own thoughts, purely for party policy reasons, simply because getting dirty money is more important for you now than defending your country. And while others are being betrayed for not supporting their truncated fundamental law amendment, what happened? For the sake of the minutes, let us say again and again: at the meeting of the Economic Commission, you have brought in a motion to extend your bond business to the Seychelles with your Cypriot brokerage company. My fellow Member Hollik was there, and he also voted in favour of allowing the Cypriot intermediary to operate in the Seychelles and sell the bonds. [[To István Hollik, who stands up from his place and to the exit:]] I know it's embarrassing, but it's okay to run away, but that's what happened. [[István Hollik: I'm here! The one we took back!]] The fact is, you have made this extension, while treasoning others to support the resettlement, even though you have done business with rich migrants. You have allowed some HUF 110 billion to not be included in the Hungarian budget at brokerage fees, but to be transferred to intermediary companies with a confusing background, and we have to say it, and then a week later - obviously under the influence of the public uproar - this decision on Seychelles has been withdrawn by the members of the same committee, seemingly without justification. So maybe you've already felt that this is inconvenient, it's embarrassing, but the double speech, the amazing double standard can be found. [[18.40]] Here, more Fidesz fellow Members have tried to address the issue of labour shortages as if this were a phenomenon occurring along a very similar line from New York to Budapest, where there is a shortage of skilled workers everywhere, and besides, we are beginning to approach regional competitors, even though during the governments called socialists, there was a gap. Let the numbers speak for us. If we look at minimum wages within the EU and we have not even examined their tax content here, we see in Hungary that we can talk about an average level of EUR 353. Greece, which is very often mentioned, can count on EUR 684 in this area. Slovenia with 791 to get to the region, even Croatia with 408, and we see that the state called Slovakia has a value of € 405. So Hungary, measured in euro at the bottom of that particular pit, moved the Hungarian wages away from the Western European level. Not only could you not get close to it, because of their extremely bad economic policy considerations, distance has increased in certain segments, and in others it has stagnated in good times. Another Fidesz MEP said that the negative demographic trend is also embracing labour shortages, and I agree with that. I'm not a fan, it's a pity that you are. I'm glad you finally have Fidesz Members to admit that. Here, in terms of answers to our interpellations, our immediate questions, there is a regular mantra that preparations have been made here to achieve the turn of population. Some people talked about my babyboom two years ago. Luckily, he hasn't said such nonsense in Parliament since. But I can see that the Secretary of State Cseresnyés is also shaking his head, so I tell him that between January and November, we unfortunately had 0.2 percent less live births in Hungary than in the same period of the previous year. And because the overall population loss could have decreased over the period considered, it could have been that fortunately more than 8,000 people died less than a year ago. But the number of living births is further, although fortunately only minimal, but shows a decrease rather than an increase, as the indicator of all economic policy measures could be whether we can increase the number of living births in Hungary. Notice that if the population loss cannot be slowed down and then stopped, it doesn't matter what color government this country will have in 60 years' time. I'm glad they're not lying anymore. I am pleased that we are in a negative demographic trend and in a negative demographic environment. I saw Mr. Secretary press the button. I'm asking you to honor us with a fair answer that's finally coming to the truth. After all, it is very difficult to argue with these numbers: in 2014, population loss was 35,000, a year later it was around 40,000, and it is still the case that the number of living births is falling. We have to say this, however, until this government is able to show at least something in relation to the tax exemption of the minimum wage, no matter what the gross rate it raises, if it cannot reduce its tax content, as it did in previous periods, it will not be able to present much. Orbán and his government also have a responsibility that in exchange for the benefits granted to multi-company companies, they did not demand a pay cut. The thing is, we can't even see any of this. So, the in-house audience strike that has now started - for an additional 55,000 increase already after a raise this year, and probably will be able to do so - is a beacon in the night for these companies to have been able to and should have asked for the inclusion of the wage catch-up costs at the time of the conclusion of strategic contracts. After all, you are providing infrastructure grants, job creation grants that are completely unilateral. Viktor Orbán and his team should eliminate the fever dream that Hungary can only be competitive if its labour force is cheap. That's not true. This age has passed, and this needs to be changed urgently. We also see that as long as the book Social Report 2016 can be accused of any attitude on one side or the other, the numbers of statistics are very stubborn things. We see that about two thirds of the total population, 75 percent of the middle income, are unable to cover unplanned expenditure. This is a disaster, because an unexpected health expense, which could be a greater burden, could arise in any family. Similarly, it can be shocking, but 37 percent of Hungarians cannot afford their daily meat consumption. This is also a very positive figure, and 44 percent of Hungarians are considered financially deprived. So we're starting from a situation where there's no room for any government gain. This whole system is developed by EU record 27 percent VAT, a tax on the poor, which is quite simply unsustainable. I do not see my fellow Member Hollik, who is our infertilizer for such speeches, because as much lies and impertinence as he is, no one speaks from the ranks of the KDNP. But when it talks about the significant reductions in the VAT content of basic foods, I always say, yes, in a way that affects 6-7 percent of the consumer basket of those concerned. And I would also like to say that in the last few months alone, you have been able to move some HUF 400-500 billion. I'm not saying it's just for pointless purposes, that's not it. But what I am saying is that in terms of reducing the VAT content of basic foods, you could have shown much more courage, and I say that what is becoming treasonable is that we have tabled a proposal to reduce the VAT content of child-rearing articles, and you have not supported this - you now have the opportunity to support it again - so that we have already run out of pro-government courage in the course of inclusion. All over Europe, children's education articles are taxed from the harshest point of view. Well, how do you hope for a population turnaround, let alone stopping population loss, in such a pathetic, weak economic environment? They can hoss us about anything, as long as raising children is one of the most taxed activities in Hungary, there is no way to change this situation. This is usually answered by a system of family tax incentives, which I do not criticize fundamentally, I think is a good direction, but it is also important to see that the range of users who can take this full advantage are typically from the most fortunate social classes, and, in addition to such a situation in the labour market as it is now, it is very difficult to expect a population turn from just one of the pillars. On the other hand, there is a huge need for a home-building pillar. Mr Secretary of State pressed a button, and I would very much ask that, since there is a population dimension to this, you answer a specific question. I expect that answer. This is that from an average Hungarian youth who, let's say, is coming up to Budapest to study at university, that this government is waiting to pay a rent of 130-140-150 thousand forints in Pest or also a horrific sum in a big city and still live next to it, start a family, get a home of its own, and then expand this family. Explain to me from what average salary, for what young people are considered to be available, why there is no public housing programme. He will probably answer me that the number of building permits for newly built properties issued has increased, and even doubled, thanks to the CSOK. I'm gonna say it's a beautiful achievement. Only an average Hungarian youth does not think in a newly built apartment, he does not move to a residential park, he simply needs an affordable apartment where he can start his life. This has an amazing market shortage in Hungary. You were also unable to respond to the resulting supply constraints when Airbnb and similar web-sharing sites removed thousands of properties from the rental market, such as a rental-building programme or by regulating this economic sector. But you didn't have the courage to do that either, and don't tell me you didn't know about the problem, because we've signaled this to you many times. We could talk about what will happen to the missing tens of thousands of engineers and IT experts from the market, how you intend to transform the education system so that these market deficits do not occur in the future. A number of issues relating to labour shortages could be raised, but for us the indicator of your overall economic activity is the sum of demographic indicators. This should be based on the creation of a home, not just for the rich. Tax for the 27 percent poor should be reduced to at least 5 percent for basic foods and child-rearing articles. But, ladies and gentlemen, I can't do this without courage. And if, after almost two thirds of six years of government, that's all you can afford, I would like to encourage you to be a little more modest, and I feel that you don't have a basis, and I'm not sure you should be looking here for any criticism of the party political aspects of opposition, because there are facts and figures here. I see that the Secretary of State has already dressed for the answer, and I am only asking him to give concrete answers to these specific questions along with courage, with due honesty, because we do not have to account for it, and they should look their own voters in the eye. Thank you for the opportunity. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2016-11-23-204	I now give the floor to State Secretary Péter Cseresnyés. [[18.50]]
u2016-11-23-205	Thank you very much. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, I didn't ask for your encouragement, but because you've been saying a lot of things in the last 15 minutes, and that's what you have to respond to. I regret that such a day of debate is used to express ideas, horse-zungs, themselves, almost as mantras, as they do at other times. But I'd like to respond to a few things. For example, that you doubt and question the results that Hungarian society has achieved over the past six years. I continue to say that the results, the numbers that justify these results, are real, and people feel this in their everyday lives. Of course, we have not reached the final goal, and we are not sure that everything is working perfectly, but we also need to see that we are at a certain stage in a process, and this process brings positive changes, and we are taking positive steps day by day, month by month, year by year. This is done through the best exploitation and exploitation of opportunities. But also to give a concrete example of employment; you have been very concerned about coming from abroad, not coming from abroad, expecting Hungarian workers, or expecting non-Hungarian workers. I pressed the button because you accused my fellow Member Hollik of slipping - using another concept - of saying to the sparrow that he had a large-headed mulch, and I would like to say that what you quoted as Mihály Varga's sentence is not true. Minister Mihály Varga never said what you said. He said that job vacancies should be used primarily and, if there is one, by Hungarian workers. In the event that we cannot find a Hungarian worker, we need to think about another solution. This other solution is that, for example, third-country workers from neighbouring countries can be specifically employed in skills gaps. However, we have defined the missing professions, and this has led, my dear fellow Member, to the fact that, contrary to your suggestion, the number of these workers in Hungary at the moment does not reach 2 thousand people, otherwise there is a quota that my fellow Member Czomba has already said year after year and for decades, which is now around 50 thousand, but this quota has not been used in recent years. So you don't have to say things that aren't real, not based on facts. He also criticized and compared the minimum wage with other countries. It would be nice to see a more realistic picture. It is not interesting, of course, how much a minimum wage means when converted into euro. We have to compare purchasing power parities, and in this case, if you look at V4 alone, we are second in terms of minimum wage. So you're saying it's false, and you're not saying what's true, you're always adjusting your sentences the way you think it's good for you. That's why I told you to emphasize horse-zung and repeat like mantra. What did this government do to make it easier for families to live, to increase birth numbers? From one moment to the next, childbirth will not change, it needs to be helped by measures. Let me just say a few things, really, out of the way of the last few years. The CSOK, the family tax relief, which you said was working well and you thought was very good, or the wedding gift, which has been giving the newlyweds 5 thousand forints a month for two years - it is all a help that promotes childbearing, family formation and the normal functioning of the family. And then, in the next period, the results are expected to be achieved, and the number of births will increase. So don't accuse us of something that didn't happen, because the government has taken very serious measures to stop the decline and then turn the decrease into a birth rate increase. I would ask you not to generalise individual cases. The fact that a person goes abroad does not mean that all workers want to go to work abroad and are temporarily there. I can give you an example. I have just recently met young people, not one, but more who come home after two or three years of working abroad because they want to start a family here because they have learned the profession, they have become masters of the profession, some of them have just passed the master's exam, and they are going to work in Hungary for about western wages, because they have developed their expertise to a degree that makes the market value of their labour force and of his expertise assess at a higher level in the Hungarian market. I am telling my proud fellow Member and others that it would not be good to generalise individual cases, because it is not true that the individual case is also true in general. It should be said that the trend of foreign employment has stopped over the past period. About the same level of backflow [[Zoltán Grimlock: For the mason and the mason will return in the winter.]] And the number of people who try themselves in the West and want to make more money. But I would also like to say one very important thing, one of the reasons - and let me take an example in advance - is that some of the young and older people have taken a job abroad. I'll tell you, my fellow socialists. For example, in your time, as a result of your policy, a number of people have been persuaded to cut themselves into foreign exchange loans, and they have not been able to repay this foreign currency loan, and they are now out there for two or three years to pay back the foreign currency loan you raised with them. [[Noise in the benches of MSZP. Gábor István Belling: And who beat the forint, you imposter?!]] I can give you an example of that. There are a number of people who have repaid the foreign exchange loan and then returned to Hungary and will continue their lives here. So he didn't go out because he wanted to live outside, but so that the people you put in a difficult position could come out of this situation and then live a normal life in the community where they were born and where they grew up. [[Z. Kárpát Dániel: Budapest apartment prices?]] Ladies and gentlemen, A question that is difficult to answer because the market regulates many things is difficult to answer. But the measures that we have taken over the past period will certainly resolve these issues. Asking questions you don't know the answer to is very, very easy, but the irresponsible thing that makes you ask yourself is that you're not in a position to ask for anything. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-11-23-206	I now give the floor to Secretary János Fónagy.
u2016-11-23-207	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Parliament, I think that, even on a political debate day with such a strong atmosphere, no one will dispute that, since 2010, the government has consistently been trying to ensure that strategic companies and service providers that ensure the smooth running of everyday life in society as a whole, whether it is transport or energy, public ownership or public competence, have consistently implemented and exercised to this day. In fact, in recent years there has been a significant increase in public engagement in this corporate circle. This was naturally accompanied by an increase in the number of state-owned companies and, as a result, their operation became more transparent and controllable, the wealth management conditions became clear, but also means that more than 100,000 people currently work in state-owned companies. A total of 25 companies are subject to the direct ownership rights of the National Development Minister, of which four are under the control of government commissioners, the Hungarian National Property Management Ltd. It has 337 companies in its corporate portfolio - just to make sure that they are aware of the size of the company - in order to make them aware of the size of the company. Several have legal records, five hundred and a few, but 337 work, of which 83 are non-profit companies, and 94 perform public tasks. [[19.00]] Companies directly linked to the Ministry of National Development have nearly 50,000 persons, namely 48,875, according to last month's closure. In addition, more than 50,000 people are employed by companies in its management. So the 100 thousand or more of the people I mentioned earlier are still current. It is clear that the daily life of these workers, ensuring the conditions for their work, and their employment conditions in general, in view of the public tasks they perform, are far beyond the framework of the working-worker relationship in the common sense. It is clear that wage trends are equally important for these companies, and the tensions and circumstances of the Hungarian labour market that have already been mentioned several times this afternoon can be felt in the same way for the same companies. Let me also mention, before presenting some concrete examples, the advantages that these companies can offer beyond the wages that are important to all, in addition to the service nature of employment in public companies. A number of public companies, as I mentioned, perform a public service mission, and accordingly, in these companies, there is virtually no risk of uninherited termination. Unfortunately, in the competition market, it is quite often seen that a company is still operating well at one moment, and the market is changing, and it disappears from one moment to the next without a successor, and its employees find themselves on the street. The relations between state-owned companies are transparent, and the safety of keeping jobs is greater and more predictable. And I would like to emphasise this, because for many years, I must say, they have been disappointingly saying how traditional and unconventional service relations are, even though most people like to plan ahead with their lives. Working conditions are ensured by legislation, and not least by public companies, the employment legally declared - black labour in these companies is virtually excluded - and the proper payment of public burdens and, not least, the social security status of workers. However, it is clear that the conditions of the labour market also affect these companies. Allow me to give examples from three large groups. The MÁV group, not MÁV Start itself, but the MÁV group currently has about 40,000 employees. Employees' employment security has increased significantly in the MÁV Group over the last six years. Allow me to testify with one piece of data. In 2010, this group of companies had a debt of HUF 330 billion and were scattered into seventy companies. At present, their work has been concentrated in three large companies and their credit rates, most of which are no longer so-called traditional loans, which are rolled before themselves, but development loans, will go below 70 billion on 31 December of this year. This is an amount that can be assumed for such a company with hundreds of billions of dollars on competitive terms. In recent years, the MÁV has had a predictable increase in wages from one year to the next. In 2015 and 16 negotiations took place at the beginning of the year around a level of 3 per cent of the wage, and I write in favour of the advocacy agencies involved in the wage deal and the employer that they were all sensitive to different income-related occupational groups, so for example, at the MÁV, for those earning HUF 350 000 monthly income, we made and implemented a higher percentage of wage development. At the beginning of the year, this 3-percent wage agreement was applied in 2012 and 13, but also in 14-15 and this year, during the individual payments that form part of the wage agreement and were implemented during the year. In previous years, who is familiar with railway conditions, the concept may not be unknown, the payment of so-called turkey money for three years, and this year, on the basis of the one-off payments made in advance, exceeded 4 percent. I am very confident, like other large public corporate wage groups, that wage negotiations will continue in the next period in a consolidated form that takes account of the interests of both parties, as they did this year, last year and the year before. Allow me to say a few words about the other large transport company, the Volánbusz and the transport centres, namely the seven Volán companies that were established at the site of the 23 previously existing companies. One of the results of this restructuring in recent years was that wage differences between employees in the same job had to be settled between companies. It is clear that wage compensations and magnetisations cannot take place downwards, so for three years, the general and mutually agreed wage policy of these companies was to adapt the general levels to these until the pay compensation of employees in the same job was achieved. This, by the way, meant that the average monthly earnings of some 15.5 thousand people increased from HUF 215 800 to HUF 240 900, which represents an increase of 11,6 percent. Allow me to mention this because the task is similar to that of state-owned regional waterworks. My fellow Members will certainly remember that 37 or 38 of the 400 water utility companies that were established after the change of regime during the implementation of the Water Works Act have now been established. It is clear that the pay differential rates between these people, also working in the same job and working in the same job, had to be egalised and brought to the same level. I'm happy to inform the Parliament that this has happened. At the same time, for the five large regional public water utilities, this wage balance has not been or has only been partially achieved to date. So, obviously, we have responsibilities in this area. I bring up these examples so that my fellow Members can see that, where the owner of the state is, he tries to take ownership responsibility. We are aware of our tasks, we are aware of the numbers and results that we have achieved, and we are also aware of the areas in which we need to take action, even next year. [[19.10]] That is why I am personally convinced that it is in the fundamental interest of this worker working in about 100,000 public companies that the wage agreement concluded yesterday be concluded tomorrow, so that the agreement on both the guaranteed minimum wage and the minimum wage can be effective, with the expected wage policy consequences within the limits of the budget, while respecting the usual rules of negotiation, so that employers and employees can determine the pace, scale and distribution of this agreement among themselves. In the hope of that, I thank you for your attention. Thank you for the opportunity, Mr. President. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-11-23-208	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mrs Mónikai Dunai.
u2016-11-23-209	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen of the State Secretary. Dear House, This political debate is now taking place for a few hours, and I thought it would not be useless to read the title of the initiative. The opposition has initiated a political debate on the matter, and I think there may be eleven of them in the room. [[Anita Herring: Just like you!]] So it would be worth a mass if you considered this debate day initiative so important that only a fraction of those who have signed the initiative are sitting in the Chamber. [[Martin Gyöngyösi: Look around! Dr. Wind Bernadett: Where are the ministers?]] We took the initiative seriously, and we try to respond appropriately to all the points. I also don't understand that its title is: "The Causes of Labour Deficit and the Steps to be taken." Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Enemies, I don't really understand why it hurts you if we take the title seriously. If the shortage of labour and we would rather say that we are looking for the reasons for the increase in labour demand, if we are looking for reasons, then we need to talk about the past. When you tell me not to talk about the past, I ask why these first few words were written in your initiative. If we are looking for reasons, we need to find the root of the problems, if there are problems, and we are convinced that we are not yet in a place where we have achieved our goals, and I will soon explain this, so we must reach back to the root of the problem and talk about the past. I will do the same, even though some of my fellow opposition Members would like to make sure that we do not highlight this. The second part of the debate is about the necessary steps. However, we have heard very little about this from the opposition in the few hours of the debate, and I expect this, and we look forward to it with great interest from you. Before I mention these things, please listen to a piece of advice from my childhood that I have heard at home many times. My grandmother said many times that if we set a goal, no matter what purpose it is, before we go, let's see which way will lead us to this goal. If that is the case, choose the appropriate tool and, if that is the case, assess how long it will take. If we have assessed these three things, and we know that we are convinced that the goal that we want to achieve is right, then we should start on this road immediately, without delay, and not turn back. If we are convinced of the rightness of our journey, let us never stop and turn back, because then we will never reach our goal. I have brought this story here, ladies and gentlemen, because such goals, such as these, are also taken by Fidesz-KDNP to achieve full employment, which is one of our very important goals that lies before us. The aim is to continuously increase wages, depending on the capacity of the economy, to reduce expenditure, families and citizens. We have set our goal to turn the demographic situation around, to have as many children as possible, and also to create homes for young people. We, fellow Members, have taken this path, because we believe that we want to achieve these goals together, and that is where we are looking for partners. Among you, ladies and gentlemen of the opposition, we are looking for a partner in achieving these goals, because we have not yet achieved our goals. We are on the right track, we will not turn back, we will see that this is the right direction, and if we want to achieve full employment, the expansion of the home system, we cannot turn back, and we will continue on this path. It also proves that the figures prove that we are on the right track, that if we look back to 2010, if not even further, more people have mentioned it here today, then Greece and Hungary were on the verge of bankruptcy in 2010. In the past few years, since 2013, we have set the economy on a dynamic growth path, which has led to a steady increase in employment, primarily in the competitive sector, unemployment is falling, unemployment is falling, and 4.9 percent in Hungary - and we must not forget that the EU average is 8.2 percent - and wages are increasing in Hungary, and career plans have been introduced and expanded one by one. Before me, my fellow Members spoke of the minimum wage from the socialist benches. I would like to say a few figures in this respect: In 2010, the minimum wage was 73 500 HUF, which will increase to 138 thousand HUF in 2018; the minimum wage for skilled workers was 89 500 HUF, which will rise to 180 500 thousand HUF. I ask my fellow Members whether they are satisfied with this quality; not with the measure, because we want to move forward every year. Do you agree with the situation? So do you agree with that, and do you come with us on this road that we set out on? Do you agree with the goals that we have set? Home creation, full employment, family preferences and the achievement of demographic change - I think this is the main issue, since it has common goals here in Parliament, whether we can join forces or not in the interests of Hungarian people and Hungarian families, that is what you must confess today. According to KSH data, 4 million 391 thousand people work in Hungary this year, in the third quarter, and the number of unemployed fell to 226 thousand. You could say that's enough or not enough. Of course, we are not satisfied yet, we want to reduce the number of unemployed people further, and we want to increase the number of people employed further. We have achieved an employment increase of 680,000 since 2010, to which you can also say that this is little or magical with numbers, but it is a fact, not we say it, but the data of surveys, research and HCSO have said so. [[19.20]] We would like to go even higher than this number in the coming years, we do not want to stop here, stop and turn back even more. Ladies and gentlemen, The strengthening of the economy is the basis for all these steps. This condition is essential, but not the only condition. In parallel with the development of the economy, we are working hard to improve demographic indicators. We need to significantly increase the number of births, and to do so, we need to help families with children to feel physically and financially secure. We want to help our young people, we have to help them - this is a very, very important goal - to gain competitive knowledge, to gain a competitive profession, and then to work in Hungary and home. Job creation, home creation and family support systems are the tools to encourage childbearing. Having children, increasing the number of children to be born, is a fundamental goal of our nation's policy. We look at children as our future, but we look not only at children from an economic perspective but also at the future. The children of today and tomorrow are the lifeblood of the future. Our family support system is designed to make families home, find work at home, increase their income, reduce their expenses, reduce their taxes. That is why we have introduced family tax relief, family home-building discount, first-marriage tax relief, ged extra, and therefore we are broadening the free textbook supply of children, their meals, so we have reduced and reduced the overhead in Hungary, and therefore we are reducing the VAT on basic foods, and these, dear fellow Members, are steps; so the steps that you have listed or marked in the title of the debate day are such steps. We're on this road, please come with us. [[Tamás Vargha: This is the right way! Zoltán Pride: Children, let's go!]] We do not want to take the path that the governments of Gyurcsány and Bajnai used to take. In 2009, in the last year of the Bajnai government, less than half of the women aged 15-64 worked, 49,6 percent, 9.8% of the women unemployed, and 45 percent inactive, did not work. In 2009, in the last year of the socialist governance, the large companies in the competition sector made a 10 percent reduction in the number of employees in one year. They shorted out the kid for a year, and the average net earnings dropped by 2.3 percent. This is not the way we want to go, not the steps we want to take. Individuals and families' subjective sense of security deteriorated dramatically at that time. 9 months later, the decline in confidence indices is followed by a reduction in birth rates, so we have come to the conclusion that by 2010 there were 10 thousand fewer children than in 2008. The total reduction was seen in women with secondary education, employment status, married, so it is very wrong to try to adjust this demographic deterioration as a female career issue. They were mostly employees, they didn't dare to take on the last year of socialist government to leave their jobs for three years, because they knew that they couldn't expect their employer to replace them for that long, and if someone else could replace their lost jobs, they wouldn't be able to return according to the laws and customs of that time. Now we've changed that, too, after 2010. Ladies and gentlemen, As of 2010, the Fidesz government has recognised these objectives as a means of improving employment and increasing the family-friendly nature of the labour market. We have established a new labour code which seeks to provide a more flexible framework in the labour market. In the framework of the job protection action, we encourage employers with contributions for people under the age of 25, for people over the age of 55, for unskilled people and for young children. These are also steps, honourable Members. From 2014 onwards, under the ged extra, mothers with small children can receive their benefits after the age of one year, but now from this year on 1 January, after 1 January 2016, they can receive their income while maintaining their income. In 2015, with the conversion of foreign exchange loans, the daily financial burden and prospects of families also improved significantly. Ladies and gentlemen, We continue to be convinced and we are determined to go this way, no matter what you say, we will not go away from this. Once again, we are not at the end of the road, we still have a lot to do, and we have a lot to replace. I need your support for this. And, if I may, for one more thought: this year, we have also made progress - and I would like to quote the statistics of this year's Economist glass ceiling index to you. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] - that earlier, when I mentioned how many inactive women there were, they couldn't work, couldn't get settled, this trend changed. OECD survey shows that the lowest difference between male and female wages in the OECD countries in Hungary [[Anita Beringes intervenes.]] Of all the countries, we've now reached the first place, that's 3.8 percent. This is also a step, an indicator that proves that we are on the right track. Once again, ladies and gentlemen, if you would like to take a different path, I would like to ask you to tell us the way and we can already argue about it, and I think that voters can judge which is good for them, this way or this 180 degrees different. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-11-23-210	Thank you. I now give the floor to Congressman István Ikotity.
u2016-11-23-211	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Without young people, there is no competitiveness. In vain, the Orbán government is talking about improving competitiveness, and its actions on young people and education are undermining this possibility. The increasing shortage of labour, our incompetence and the situation of young people and their opportunities are closely related issues. Under the Orbán government, emigration has accelerated and has become unprecedented in Hungary. One of the important reasons for the lack of labour is that thousands of young people, up to five to ten thousand, leave this country every month. [[Dr. Wind Bernadett: That's right! Gábor Bányai intervenes.]] Accurate information is not available, but emigration is becoming... [[Intercoms from the ruling parties.]] Mr. President, really, would you mind giving the Fidesz Members some discipline? [[Interjection from the ranks of the governing parties: Where are we? Where are we?! The president's ringing the bell. Defiance and interrogation in the ranks of the ruling parties. Interjection from the ranks of the governing parties: Continue!]]
u2016-11-23-212	Fellow Members, listen to István Ikotity with calmness. [[Tamás Vargha: Let's hear it! Interjection from the ranks of the governing parties: Earplugs!]]
u2016-11-23-213	Departure shows an increasingly worsening trend, with all kinds of statistics, domestic and foreign statements and estimations supporting it, no matter how loud they are. The most important figure so far is the estimate of KSH - they are working on a variety of databases, which is why I claim to be the most accurate - according to which 350 000 people left the country by early 2013, i.e. they have been living abroad for at least one year. We also suspect that, since there is a significant migration rate every month, it is no exaggeration to say that up to 500 thousand Hungarians and half a million Hungarians can live in Western Europe, it is strange, and people who stay abroad for a shorter period of time are not yet included in this. [[György Balla: Not even tourists! Intercoms from the ruling parties: Neither are the tourists!]] For the purposes of this It is sad to think that by the end of Viktor Orbán's eight-year government, we can very easily get close to the one-million-dollar emigrated mass if this process continues. [[Deterioration in the benches of the ruling parties.]] very soon. That's funny. That's funny, the congressmen say. I don't think it's funny, it's a sad, very sad fact. [[Gábor Bányai intervenes.]] I'm very sorry that you find this amusing. [[Dr. János Fónagy: No, we find this unreal!]] These are bad things. [[Sándor Font: Are you cheering for more?]] We do not wish to see, my honourable fellow Member, the facts, to look at the data of the Central Statistical Office, and to build their policies on it, to pursue a policy that seeks to lure these young people home, to ensure that these young people do not leave the country, which I am rooting for, my honourable fellow Member. [[Sándor Font: But so far this has not been shown!]] [[19.30]] I would particularly like to thank Mr Font Sándor for bringing this to my attention. After that, I think it's quite clear... [[Sándor Font: I'd be happy to help you again.]] The Possibly Other in Politics has also carried out an own survey, a representative survey. In our own research, we asked questions that were not classically included in the questions of the Statistical Office, obviously, questions of the type in which we asked young people what their motivation was, what their goals were, what their plans were for the future. Only 15 percent of Hungarian young people, fellow Members, replied that they will definitely stay in Hungary after they have completed their studies, only 15 percent who are sure that they want to stay in Hungary. That's disappointing. More than two thirds of students believe that after completing their studies they will work abroad and live in the long term. Two thirds of students think they want to live abroad in the long run. That's a very disappointing number. Many would already start their higher education abroad. It can also be concluded that Hungarian young people who want to stand on their own feet and who are not members of a relative or an oligarch community of the Fidesz Moonyard should be considered as having the opportunity to continue abroad only to be successful abroad. This is due to many other factors. In the future, this situation will become very dramatic, as I referred to. Young people leave because their opportunities are limited at home. The bad steps taken by previous governments and the Orbán government's dispersal of education systems and social policy through emigration are indeed indirect causes of labour shortages and incompetence. The Orbán government has destroyed the system of public education, which has already been bleeding from a thousand wounds. Today, young people do not receive competitive knowledge. The nationalisation of the school system, the collapse of the textbook market, the comprehensive centralisation, the restriction of the scope of the teachers' mobility are all killing out the creativity and innovation inherent in the system. That doesn't mean any XXI. It is not possible to deal with the labour market problem of the century by wanting to implant in students' minds databases that cannot be learned. This is completely unnecessary, since everyone now has the Internet in their pockets, when specific information is needed, it is very easy to do so. The world comes when people are not supposed to remember data, but to be able to put it together, put it in context, think, initiate, undertake, and instead of having an amazing size of material knowledge, the effectiveness of returning this vast amount of data is very low, so even if they try, they simply do not accept this large amount of data, they should put more emphasis on developing the skills and skills that are not lost in a few hours, after a few weeks or years, people do not forget. If young people with entrepreneurship came out of the school bench, who would set up successful businesses with the right support, we could reduce the shortage of labour. At the same time, the government is expecting fewer and fewer young people in high school, as the 16 - year - reduced schooling obligation could cause thousands or even tens of thousands of young people to drop out of the school bench in a few years. [[Dr. Wind Bernadett, you're sending them to community service.]] It is linked to the destruction of the education system that vocational training has been thrown to the oligarchs as it is. The aim is to get young people out of vocational training a job where they can work somewhere next to a ribbon for minimum wage. Despite the positive effects of dual training, this does not have the basic conditions today. Even though some successful foreign car factories are shown, this is only the tip of the iceberg, especially when 10-15-20 years from now it will be a bitter experience that this German automotive industry, which now works well, who knows what position it will be in, and who knows where it will move to, who knows what development direction it will take, and who knows who will work in these plants. The plants may not be moved easily. But it already arises at the Mercedes plant in Kecskemét, which is close to Congressman Bányai, that people are causing problems, because robots cannot avoid them, and then this problem arises. I think we should prepare for this now. You, with this educational strategy, this practice - we are not criticising the strategy in itself, but the way it is put into practice - are practically long-term unemployed, because these young people will have very limited knowledge and will not have the opportunity to change their careers. With regard to higher education, I can also say that they have expanded their tuition courses, taken control of universities with parachute solutions, and started beating up rural colleges. The College of Szolnok, or even now Baja, is an example of this, for which two faculties, the two well-functioning faculties, a training lasting for decades, are currently being divided into the National University of Public Service. Speech data, and again figures, 100,000 of the 140,000 applicants in 2010 have been admitted to higher education, which is now less than 80,000 students out of 100,000 applicants, and so many students are hired. Although there have been minor changes here over the years, you can also see upward movements, but unfortunately, the overall trend is not in this direction. At the same time, there has been a withdrawal of funds from the educational area, which Mr Rétvári, Secretary of State, who is not present, communicates excellently that this is not actually a withdrawal. But actually, those words are not real, there is no content behind them, because if we look into them more closely, then it is very clear that they are just twisting information. It is enough to look at the OECD proposal and how much we will always be below it. I would like to share some thoughts on vocational training with you. Vocational training is an area where, when we look at it in Europe, a general skilled worker in Western Europe is transforming himself six times in his life, so that it should be possible for some skilled workers to be re-trained as much as possible, to be able to change the course, but more importantly, to obtain training that will make it easier for them to transfer and train more generally. Thank you for your attention. [[Dr. Wind Bernadett and Schmuck are applauding Elizabeth.]]
u2016-11-23-214	Thank you. Now there will be three Secretary of State reactions. First, I give the floor to the Secretary of State of Magyar Levente.
u2016-11-23-215	Mr President, Thank you very much for the floor. Dear Congressmen, ladies and gentlemen, Honourable Congressman, There may be a logical twist in the arguments of the opposition or the LMP that I cannot understand spiritually. But if I try to interpret the problem within my own intellectual framework, then I see a tumultuous contrast between the opposition criticising the government's policy at the same time because of the shortage of labour and the fact that, in principle, the government does not find the right means to remedy the shortage of labour and, in a sentence, it criticizes the government because many people leave the country without sufficient opportunities. If there is a shortage of labour, it means that the labour market is shifting its weight from demand to supply, so more people would be needed in industry, agriculture, in any economic sector than they want to make use of this opportunity. In other words, people are not forced to, obviously speaking in general, to leave the country without an opportunity, job, existential perspective. [[19.40]] So how is it that, on the one hand, they criticize us because we are supposed to find no solution to the shortage of labour and, on the other hand, they criticize us because people are leaving? Then why leave if there's a job anyway? So, logically, it doesn't add up to me. [[István Ikotity and Dr. Bernadett Wind intervene.]] I think that this is just a false argument, Madam honourable Member, because the obvious reason for this problem is that the Hungarian wage level is lagging behind, and in some sectors it is far from Western European. But, dear congressmen, congresswoman, it's been that way for at least 500 years. Now I don't want a history lesson, because I'm not the best person in this House to look at this problem from a historical perspective, but how can you expect a more historically backward, broken region that has gone through eighteen times more destruction and suffering in the last few centuries than Western Europe to catch up suddenly? There are retrospective GDP statements, which show that 150-200 years ago there was even greater discrimination between Eastern Europe, Central Europe and Western Europe. How do you expect that after taking over the country's government six years ago, in practically destroyed condition, you know that, eighteen times today, I will not do this again... So, after the government took over the responsibility of government in a hopeless situation and sent the country there in six years - obviously partly by using external factors to our advantage - that the problem is not the acute job shortage, but there is an extra job opportunity in the country, therefore, honourable House, perhaps there is recognition for the government's efforts. I think that in itself is a great achievement. Of course - how else could it be? - that the average wage level in Hungary is below German, and until there is a difference of HUF, there will obviously be people looking primarily at their existential aspects, an incentive to move towards a higher wage level. But go to Moldova, go to Romania, go to Serbia, to countries less developed than Hungary, and see that this phenomenon is larger by magnitude than in Hungary. It's a natural process. There is a labour market shift from poorer countries to richer countries. So it's the pay grade. Now, how can we improve the wage level? Please, with the measures that the government has announced in part in the last few days. We cannot order a wage increase by order, because on the one hand the government does not have any competence to do so, and on the other hand we need to organically develop an added-value economy that will naturally, but obviously deliver the Hungarian economy to a capacity and a capacity to generate value added that will be properly reflected in the pay lines as soon as possible. The reported tax cuts, the continuous job creation - the numbers of which speak for themselves - are ongoing efforts to increase research and development, added value, which also have good results... I would like to inform you that in the information and communication technology sector, Hungary is one of the most active in the whole European Union, and we are in the second to third place in this respect. So I think that in recent years, once again, compared to where the country was six years ago, what the acute problems were, and what the realistic prospects were for this to change in the foreseeable future, we have managed to make very serious progress. And the historical lag in the Central European region may not be realistic to expect to be resolved in four to five years, when it has failed for centuries. But I think that the measures that have been taken in the last year are pointing in the direction, and the figures show that a pace of catching-up has started, which gives us all a solid hope that we will reach the level that, although it will not yet reach the Western European average, it will probably keep people at home to a greater extent. Besides, there is no tragedy in the fact that so many people - obviously here on the numbers - are looking for opportunities abroad for work. We must strive not to let these people go, not to let them out of the national circulation, and we strive to return to Hungary after the year when they used their knowledge abroad, when they gained experience, and bring home to Hungary the ability they had acquired abroad. What do you need for that? Once again, the measures that we are fighting with all our strength for the higher wage level, because it is possible to say nice words, but at the end of the day, it will obviously be decided within the framework of a personal fate where you look for prosperity, where there is a better prospect existentially. It is therefore clear that the wage level must be caught up, and I think, once again, that all possible measures are under scrutiny on a continuous basis and that what is possible is being taken from among them. Dear House, The point of the message is once again: we have created a lot of jobs in recent years, we are in a better position if there are more jobs than there are workers' needs than if there were vice versa. The real tragedy is that people do not have a job and suffer from a country's economy, not because there is too much supply in the labour market, and many people do not want to take advantage of these opportunities, but - you are obviously a great believer of the European Union, as I hope may be a larger part of the House - they choose the opportunities offered by the European Union, and they are looking to live with their personal and institutional constitutional rights, once again, as we hope, on a periodic basis in other countries. I think that if you look at what these figures show for the neighbouring countries, you will find that you will probably realize that we are not at all wrong in this regard, we are talking about a natural process, which has been passed on by all the countries. This has been the case for Greece, this has been the case for Portugal, this has been the case for Spain, and this has been the case for Italy since the end of the 1950s. When a more underdeveloped economy joins a more advanced integration, not only economics, but almost the laws of mechanics, that there is such a movement that is reversible, which is not permanent, and to which - once again - we have taken all possible measures to increase the wage level, I think. The expected and realistic 40% wage increase in the coming years could be a promise, a perspective that could address many young people who are now abroad. Last week I spent four days in Serbia. I propose to the honourable ladies and gentlemen that if they want to see what it is like to see a rural area empty without economic opportunities, they will examine a settlement in the neighbouring countries, even close to the border, and then look at Hungary. Once again, it is not a problem, it is not a tragedy, because everything must be placed in context, in a historical context, in a geographical context, and in the context of the institutional capacity that the European Union offers in terms of existential employee potential. Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-11-23-216	I now give the floor to Secretary of State László Palkovics.
u2016-11-23-217	Thank you very much. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and I would like to respond briefly to Congressman Ikotity. Next week there will be a block of public education, also a similar debate, so I would not mention all the details that you have raised, just a few very short things, and I would actually join Hungarian Levent, continuing his line of thought that what is happening is not something that we should not live as an opportunity. What emigration data looks like was said here. If we look at - and you mentioned a survey that you did - how many of the students would like to study abroad, among the children, these are indeed legitimate demands. Then, if we look at what's actually going to happen, the numbers here are different. Just to understand that we were talking about higher education, you mentioned that everyone would like to study abroad, what he means, a part-school or a full degree there... At the moment, 2.5 percent of students studying in Hungarian higher education institutions, who study at a foreign university, are basically involved in three countries: Austria, Germany and England, plus a few other countries. On the other hand, the proportion of foreign students in the Hungarian higher education system is 9 percent at the moment. In order not only to show these figures, it is possible to conclude from this that the Hungarian higher education system is likely to be more attractive, even with the problems you mentioned, which I would not share; he mentioned the Chancellors' system. The system has absolutely proven that it is a functioning system. Whichever university you are speaking to, and let's say you're asking about your funding problems - I suggest you do it - you'll hear a completely different answer. Returning to this, to say another number: in Germany, about 7 percent of German students study abroad, and in the German school system, in the German higher education system, 15 percent of foreign students are studying abroad. If we conclude from this that German students in Germany do not like to live and that the German school system is not good, because so many people are going abroad, then our system is probably better. So with these numbers, I think it's worth it. [[19.50]] As I mentioned, I would like to discuss public education in more detail next week, but I would like to mention one thing here: yesterday, we invited Mr Andreas Schleicher, the Education Director of the OECD, to the meeting of the Round Table on Public Education. The OECD has been constantly following the activity that is taking place here since the establishment of the round table for public education, and yesterday he confirmed in virtually all its elements what Hungary is doing in the field of education. This is exactly what the OECD is proposing. Here, I would like to point out one thing: you mentioned the destruction of the vocational training system, and the OECD sees it exactly the other way around, that what is happening in Hungary is precisely the transformation of the vocational training system in the direction that is actually happening in the successful OECD countries. So I'd like to discuss this in a little bit more detail next week, which is just a few very brief reactions to your concerns. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2016-11-23-218	I now give the floor to Secretary of State Csaba Dömötör.
u2016-11-23-219	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I consider it an important question to ask what the situation of young Hungarians is, what their life prospects are. So it is worth considering in some life situations. The most important thing, perhaps, is that, compared to previous periods, a young Hungarian has a better chance of working today. There was a period - a few years ago - when youth unemployment was 28 percent, now it is 12.7%; from 28 to 12.7%, with an EU average of almost 19 percent. There are EU countries, honourable Member, where every second youth is unemployed; southern countries are long-standing countries. It is because they have a better chance of working, because vocational training programmes are wider, and the job protection action, introduced by the government several years ago, has placed considerable emphasis on the employment of young people, on putting them in a position. If a young person has a job in Hungary today, he is more likely to have a higher salary today, which does not, of course, mean that this level is sufficient. We still have a lot to do. If a young person is a doctor today, a nurse, a minimum wage worker, a skilled worker, a government official, a district clerk or a university professor, he can expect a higher salary. [[Dr. Wind Bernadett: What are you talking about?]] If a young man is thinking about getting married, let's hope that as many people as possible get a tax reduction. By the way, even at the time of the marriage, [[Dr. Wind Bernadett intervenes.]] That's why we're happy to hear that... Congresswoman, do you mind if I go through with this? 'Cause I'm only saying this because your fellow congressman called in the yells first. [[Zoltán Haughty: And you continued in the same way!]] So you're gonna give me the honor of listening to others. Thank you in advance. If a young man is thinking about getting married, he's getting some serious tax breaks when he's getting married. [[Zoltán Grimlock: Five thousand forints a month, seriously!]] This may also help to increase the number of marriages compared to the previous period. If a young person is thinking about having a child, he will receive serious tax benefits in the event of having children. From 1 January in the case of two children, tax incentives will increase to HUF 15,000 per child. This is a serious increase, and I would also like to say that low-income couples can enforce these tax incentives. If a young person is thinking about having a child and moving to a new apartment, wanting to create a new home, he will receive serious support from the state. This was not the case in the past, the socialists abolished a well-functioning home support system, and then turned the Hungarian families into foreign exchange loans. [[Dr. László Varga: You talk such nonsense that there is no point in interrupting.]] So if you're wondering why many young people could go abroad to work, at least mention the issue of foreign exchange lending a few times. I wish they'd been so loud about foreign exchange loans. If you are thinking about creating a home, you can receive a grant of up to HUF 10 million, but also support for those who are not thinking about buying new apartments, but about renovating them. With Jobbik, we have a longer time to debate, Jobbik argues for social housing schemes, but we say that we want to give preference to own homes, because own-owned housing is one of the most important conditions of civic life. [[Dr. László Varga: And the binding to the clot!]] I would like to say this because the students were referred to as the government working to expand the dormitory space. We don't want a student, university or college to be unable to solve their housing, either in the capital or elsewhere. And to mention a life-style issue, I would like to say to you that from 1 January to 18 percent the VAT on internet is falling, which does not refer directly to wages, but can only contribute to reducing the costs of young people. In summary, I would like to say to you that it would not be right for the government to say where young people are taking up their jobs. I remember well how you protested against any form of bonding with a clot, but the government has a lot to do at the same time. We want a country where there are more jobs, where wages can grow, where families who have children receive support, and when they have children, they get a helping hand at home. I think - and this is clear from what has been said - that progress has been made in these areas. Hungary is growing stronger, and Hungarian young people have a better chance of finding their calculation here at home. Thank you for listening. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2016-11-23-220	Ladies and gentlemen, Now we're gonna have two-minute comments. First, I give the floor to Congressman Nándor Gúr.
u2016-11-23-221	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mónika Dunai, I would like to say that regarding what you have been talking about in terms of salaries, we can certainly not go the same way, on the path you are on, which is about raising your gross, gross, gross, infinitely. No! You know, the salary is, and it's worth as much as it gets into people's hands and the amount of money they go into the store and what they can buy for it. Not that his gross is raised by 51 percent, that alone is of no value to people; what is in their hands and what can be bought for him. My colleague from Czomba mentioned that the net minimum wage of 100,000 HUF is a minimum wage. It is a very simple story, my fellow Member, very simple: there is no need to pair it with a personal income tax burden. It's that simple. You don't have to collect this tax and scatter it among your friends. It's that simple. You have to give it to people who work for these money. And, then, Secretary of State Dömötör, when using statistical data on employment growth figures, use those that are the last full year before the change of government, 2009 and the last closed year, 2015. In this relationship, they can show about 450-460 thousand extra, but I give you three thoughtful figures: public employment surplus for six years ago 150-200 thousand, changing time, or even the accounting of foreign workers, about 140 thousand, or even the student employment that was not reported six years ago, 180-200 thousand. And we're about to go downhill, not extra. So, you know, the problem is, you can use manipulation to show a situation that's better than the situation. And I would just like to say in the last sentence to the Hungarian Secretary of State that what he is talking about is that young people will come home for this raise, unfortunately not. Not for a net minimum wage increase of HUF 7,000 or a guaranteed minimum wage increase of EUR 50-60. Unfortunately, the only thing that can be stopped is that there may be fewer people to leave. Mr. President, thank you very much.
u2016-11-23-222	I give the floor to Congressman György Balla.
u2016-11-23-223	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, Although the content and style of the debate do not justify it, it is clear that today's debate is an initiative by the opposition that is a great recognition of the government's economic activity. Since 1990, it has not been the case, my fellow Members, that the current opposition did not regard unemployment as the biggest problem, and even the biggest problem of the current governments would not have been unemployment, and the greatest problem for the people would not have been unemployment. In 2010, 11th and 12th, you, fellow Members of the opposition, spoke of nothing but unemployment. Now a debate day has been initiated that is not about unemployment, thanks to the good Lord, but about why the Hungarian economy, the actors of the Hungarian economy, cannot find enough workers. So I think that, although you do not admit it, this is the greatest recognition that the opposition party can get from the government. As far as wages are concerned, yes, it is obvious that you are now asking us why there are no such wages in Hungary as in Vienna, Berlin and London. Because, fellow Members, wages are usually related to GDP. [[20.00]] Those opposition parties - and now I see all of them as such - which, by the way, promises immediately to the people of Vienna, Berlin and London, can do so because they are clearly aware that no one is going to take account of them, because they will never be brought to government, because such irresponsible, ridiculous promises simply cannot be made. And as for the minimum wage and tax, they are so elegantly forgetting about tax relief for children! It is so elegantly forgotten, Mr Gúr, that today a family raising a child and earning a minimum wage should not only pay taxes, but also social security contributions, which have never been. [[Dr. István Nagy: That's right!]] So in Hungarian: 135 thousand HUF stays in the pocket of the last penny if you raise a child. Compare that with your own 73 thousand forints, and be as proud as you were before. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties. Zoltán Grimlock: What about those who don't work?]]
u2016-11-23-224	I now give the floor to Congressman Ander Balázs. [[Zoltán Haughty: And who doesn't have children, what does it take from where? He's over 50 years old!]]
u2016-11-23-225	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, State Secretary Major MNV Zrt. He spoke of some 100 thousand employees of 170 companies under his authority, and he had already painted such pink fantasies. I would never say anything so stupid, liberally insane, that the state is a bad owner, I have to admit that, but I have to admit that the Hungarian state, if we look at these workers, is treating them like a stepchild. What's the proof? Between 2010-14, employees of Posta, MÁV or even Volán received a total wage increase of 2.5 percent over inflation. It is no coincidence, by the way, that the departure of Volán workers is so great that this emigration is already a serious threat to the mobility guarantee, and that if you cancel this mobility guarantee in this form, there will be no more rural community transport, there will be no more rural Hungary, where, because of centralizations, school closures, hospital mergers, people will be forced to do so, and people will need community transport. But I'd like to say a few words about the MÁV. The Secretary of State spoke of a wage increase, but he forgot to add that in the salad law establishing the 2017 budget, a pen stroke took 10 percent of the wages from the railroad workers working in the stand-by position, and while, let's say, their oligarchs are getting richer from railway construction, a lot of workers here have had a serious headache by not paying them the overtime money they deserve for years. Or we could talk about, let's say, the miserable situation of the outsourced workers of the rail guard activity, which represents 18 billion HUF plus VAT market, the people, the railway guards who are actually treated as sub-contractors, and I have already presented these problems to you here several times. So if that's the case, I'm asking you to mention these. Thank you for your attention. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2016-11-23-226	I give the floor to Congresswoman Bernadett Wind.
u2016-11-23-227	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Mr Balla, Let's make one thing clear here at the end of the day, not even close to the end of the day: I'm getting tired of the propaganda you've started here. I do not want to argue with Árpád Habony, but with Members of Fidesz and KDNP, who I expect to find a solution to what you will do about the labour shortage and the wage crisis in Hungary in the next period. The lack of labour is not the success of Fidesz, but the failure of Fidesz. The fact that Hungarians can't make a living on an eight-hour wage is not a success, that is a failure, that is the failure of this country, and that is a tragedy that is taking place. My fellow Member, my fellow Member from the Danube, I do not see him now, but I hope he is here, 8-10 percent of the women of the best childbearing age are already abroad. These women are going to give birth there. Don't laugh about it. [[Dr. Winner Vinnai: That's not what I'm laughing about!]] These women will give birth there, they will have children there, and Hungary will be completely eliminated, there will be no children, there will be nothing in this country. So be nice and don't explain to us how well you've been political around here lately, but tell us how this country is gonna get out of this pothole. They're going back to the Turkish occupation now that there's been such problems here for 500 years. Hell, no. These problems have been coming since 2010 since you came to government! [[Dr. István Nagy: Don't be silly.]] When did the emigration wave start? It started to spin in 2011. [[Dr. János Fónagy: 1890!]] In 2012, we received the first comments about the shortage of labour and do you know what is one of the causes of labour shortages? Well, do you know? It's community service. The big thing is that with your forced public work programme, which doesn't work anywhere in the world, what's happening is that it practically sucks people who can work off the labour market. [[Defiance in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] Do you know, fellow Member, who laughs behind my back, what percentage of people in community service have skills? A third. And these people are pushing community service for up to 50-60 thousand forints. This isn't working! It doesn't work that way, a country can't work that way. So enough of this government propaganda, we have never seen so many State Secretarys in our lives here in the Hungarian Parliament, there are more than Fidesz, KDNP representative. Stand up and tell me what's going on, because I've had enough of this party talk.
u2016-11-23-228	Ladies and gentlemen, We're going back to normal speeches. In this context, I give the floor to Mr Robert Balázs Simon.
u2016-11-23-229	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Now I think about an hour and a half or two ago, perhaps even from Jobbik's ranks, János Volner referred to why they did not support the increase in wages of multinational companies on the part of the government. I don't think it's the government's job. But some data is given that Audi Hungária Motor Kft. has already been mentioned, since I am a Member of the Parliament of the city of Győr County. At the moment, Audi Győr employs 11 500 people, and based on a recent data, which is 2016. CHAPTER VI monthly, they view wage statistics not as physical or intellectual, but as the wages of direct or indirect participants in production. So the gross average wage of the participants in the production is HUF 408 thousand at Audi Hungária Motor Kft. and the gross salary of the indirect participants is HUF 721 thousand, i.e. the white collars. I think that not only the Audi, but also other car manufacturers pay their employees significantly better than the average. Here comes also a cafeteria, which is also public, it is 570 thousand forints/year, and in some ways a reduced used car purchase, travel contribution, and school and kindergarten facilities, as Audi also has its own school in Győr. It's a little different. Mr Sándor Czomba mentioned that there are 8 counties in Hungary today where the unemployment rate is below 3 per cent, among them the leading ones are Győr-Moson-Sopron County, 2.2 per cent. However, if we rewind the wheel of time until 2010, then, of course, this rate was not 2.2 percent in Győr-Moson-Sopron county, but somewhere between 7 and 8 percent, and the national figure was 12 percent in terms of unemployment rate, which, according to the latest figures, has now fallen to 4.9 percent. In the case of the employment rate, this is currently 69.4 percent for Győr-Moson-Sopron County, which is 3 percentage points better than the national average, and if you look at the latest monthly data, it shows that in the third quarter, the number of registered job seekers in Győr-Moson-Sopron County is 2.2 percent, as I have just mentioned, which is virtually equivalent to full employment. For this reason, the biggest challenge at the moment is the continuous supply of skilled workers in the county and in the city. Therefore, Minister Mihály Varga recently said that the Hungarian economy is on a promising path, but has to face new challenges. The two new challenges are clearly wage catching up, which has already been mentioned here, as this is necessary to improve competitiveness, and I believe that reducing public burdens, i.e. the guaranteed minimum wage, the increase of the minimum wage by 25 percent, the increase of the minimum wage by 15 percent and the reduction of employer contributions by 5 percentage points since 2017, is a significant step forward in the area of wage catch-up. The other is, as I mentioned, the transformation of education and training, and this is because of the provision of professionals. And what decisions, what measures have been taken in this area recently? I'd like to highlight four of these right now. One is that the examination system has been transformed, a comprehensive, complex exam has been introduced. The second is that dual training has been extended, and I will talk about this a little bit longer later, and the reform of vocational training has been carried out, and the fourth is that from September 2015 the acquisition of the second qualification has become free of charge, in addition to obtaining the first state-supported qualification. By the way, more than 10,000 people have already made use of this opportunity. [[20.10]] If someone finished primary school in the last academic year, they can choose from the following options for further education: the high school, which I would not detail here, perhaps another alternative, the vocational high school or the vocational secondary school. From September, the vocational high school is 4+1 years old, where the vocational education also provides a vocational qualification, so the student can become a qualified workforce with the completion of the secondary school, and the vocational secondary school is 3+2 years old, where the three-year vocational education is followed by a two-year further education. In this type of school, the student decides to join the world of work after the end of the 11th grade or to do so after the 13th grade with a degree and a qualification. What is very important and I would like to highlight, on the basis of a concept in higher education, which was defined in December 2014, was set as a goal to further strengthen the coherence between higher education courses and economic needs, and to develop training content in line with the needs of the domestic labour market. At the moment, 46 dual training courses of 24 higher education institutions can be selected and more than 500 holding organisations have concluded agreements with the institutions. By the way, 58 percent of corporate partners are small and medium-sized enterprises. Thus, in many countries in Europe, so-called dual training has already been successful in creating effective cooperation between higher education and the economic sector. In these training courses theoretical training takes place in the higher education institution, while practical training takes place in an economic organisation. Dual training was introduced in Hungary in 2010. As I said, in this situation, where Győr-Moson-Sopron County and Győr are involved, it is very important to introduce dual training, since it is important not only for those with secondary education but also for those with higher education to be able to enter the labour market immediately. Thank you so much for your attention. [[Applause in the benches of Fidesz.]]
u2016-11-23-230	I now give the floor to Secretary Tamás Vargha.
u2016-11-23-231	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, I am trying to comply with the call made by Mrs Bernadett Szél, who has called for us to talk about what we are doing about the shortage of labour. In the Hungarian Army, this is called a shortage of numbers, and today there has been a debate about the number of Hungarian defences in the Parliament this morning, and I tell you honestly, there is a discreet charm of it, when the Hungarian Socialist Party asks us, for example, for the lack of military development, which successfully dismantled the Hungarian Defence Forces between 2002 and 2010, and destroyed complete non-weapon cultures, and according to them, sold military equipment and weapons. I think it's more of a waste of time. There is also a discreet charm that the Hungarian Socialist Party draws attention to the fact that the highest value is the soldier, the man, and should be valued; if we recall, the significant increase in salary during the first Orbán government, and then in 2015 during the third Orbán government. Between 2002-2010, this did not happen, and there is also a discreet charm that the Hungarian Socialist Party demands that, by 2022, we increase the defence budget to 2 per cent of GDP, while the country was successfully squashed in bankruptcy between 2002 and 2010, and with great effort we managed to keep the defence budget level and increase it by 0.1 per cent of GDP this year, which will be spent on salary increases by 30 per cent from 1 July 2015, which will increase by another 5 per cent from 1 January each year, thus reaching 50 per cent on 1 January 2019. We do a number of things to ensure that the Hungarian Defence Forces are uploaded, so that young Hungarians can feel that military service is not only a noble, patriotic act, but we do appreciate soldiers. A number of other salary supplements have been introduced. The latest one was September 1st, when the Ministry of Defence increased the labour market bonus for the crew. This means that the crew's salary increased by around HUF 20 and HUF 50 000. I think that this was also a significant step. I would like to highlight only one of the other additional benefits: the housing loan subsidy, which was signed this week by Minister, is the latest: Hj can be used to help those with bank housing loans. according to the employer's loan contract income, which is between HUF 300-500 million. We also try to take care of the highest value, the soldier. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-11-23-232	I now give the floor to Congressman Gábor István Harangozó.
u2016-11-23-233	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear fellow Members, The aim of this debate is to talk about why there is a shortage of workers in Hungary and what should be done. It is clear that it plays a significant role in the development of such a shortage of workers, what we have been talking about here for hours now, is that a large number of people have migrated from the country. Why so many people wandered out of the country, in my opinion, is one of the most significant reasons we have talked about here, the huge difference in salaries, but there is another very important reason that we have also talked about furry, so although I did not wish to talk about this area in my normal comment, but since more people have mentioned it several times, I will not stop to start my comment with this. This is a question of foreign currency loans. Many families were forced to leave the country because, in connection with foreign exchange loans, they were in a financial situation that they could not solve from their domestic salary, and that is why they had to go abroad in the first place because they could not sustain their lives at home, and not only because they were basically low in salaries, but there was an additional burden on the financing of foreign currency loans that simply put these families in a situation where they were forced to leave the country for a higher salary because they could not finance it at home. This foreign exchange credit scheme, honourable fellow Members, was indeed a scoundrel. An unfair construct that gave people money that practically didn't give them, but gave them a framework in which they could get the money for themselves, and as a result, all the risks affected the foreign exchange-credit families. Technically, the banks pulled themselves out of it. There was a country, Iceland, where the same construction was raging, and when the Icelandic families were in the same impossible position as the Hungarian families were in the collapse of foreign exchange loans, the Icelandic government decided to say that this was not a bank loan, it was an unfair arrangement, they destroyed all the foreign currency loans, so that the banks in Iceland fell for them, which were nationalised, and then the state didn't help the banks, but the families. As a result, Iceland was able to get out relatively quickly from the very deep crisis that it was in, in the first place, thanks to it. On the other hand, Hungary, the Hungarian government, first of all, after the change of government, Fidesz, incredibly irresponsiblely put these families in an impossible position by knocking down the forint, and in fact, they became unfunded and hopelessly unfunded when the forint was rolled over. After that, they did not help these families for a very long time, then they helped the wealthy families, they pulled them out of trouble, and eventually they created a construction that ended with the further deterioration of the forint, the Hungarian National Bank of Matolcsy earned HUF 300 billion on the fact that the forint deteriorated at the expense of these families. [[20.20]] After that, the Hungarian government did not try to find a partnership with the National Bank in order to turn this money back into helping these families, providing them with housing, or somehow financing the egress from the impossible financial situation in which they were involved, but they started to create luxury foundations, they started to steal this money, bought property overvalued through various offshore transactions, and then spread the money that was taken from these families. A lot of families had to leave the country because of this whole construction. Just, dear fellow Members of the Fidesz, you are no better than those who have created this construction, because you profit from the liquidation of this construction than those who created it have profited. Now, I'd like to go back to the original subject that I basically wanted to talk to you about. You know, fellow Members, I think that, in addition to foreign exchange loans, many families, especially young people, had to leave the country because when Fidesz came to government, they decided to give up the long-standing dream of catching up Hungary's population to the European Union, to the prosperity of Western Europe. They saw that they would not be able to do so, or so they decided, so they decided to do good for the top 20 percent, your most loyal voting layer, to catch up with them, to create a tax system for them, to create conditions, to put them in a position, not only Western European, but also to create the whole eastern richness, and they really live very well. But in the meantime, the middle layer continues to crumble rather than catch up, and the poorest people are in a completely hopeless situation. I am very pleased that there have finally been processes in the labour market that have allowed companies in Hungary to see that the exploitation that they have done with the Hungarian workforce cannot continue. The Hungarian concept, announced by Viktor Orbán, is that we are practically building a assembly economy in Hungary so that Western European companies do not have to go to China, but that we create conditions in Hungary that are there, and then these companies will work in Hungary, but the extremely low Hungarian salary has become increasingly unsustainable. And I would like to remind you that you can say anything here, the facts are the facts, the net average earnings in Hungary in June 2016 was EUR 551, while in Slovakia it was EUR 708 and EUR 793 in the Czech Republic and EUR 2009 in Austria, and there is no labour force left in Hungary, and after that, obviously, the companies had no choice but to start raising the salaries in Hungary. What you are doing now is not a fair attitude, which is about raising the salary of Hungarian people, because this condition is untenable, but the market processes have started, and you are catching up with these market processes, because these movements have become inevitable, and now you are trying to sell them as your own performance. But this turn of events has finally happened. I would therefore like to urge you to take a similar turn in another area, which is why I would ask you, once you are in the government, to make an active contribution to this. You have given up the Hungarian countryside as much as you have, and their situation remains as hopeless as it has been before. In the Hungarian countryside, this increase in salaries will not change the situation so much, as the Hungarian villages continue to be characterised by a lack of prospects, closing hospitals, falling services, and, in short, hopelessness. In villages, if children are still born, they have no other perspective than community service or moving somewhere. If there is somewhere to be done, the state must intervene and do something about the situation of Hungarian villages, the Hungarian countryside. We can no longer simply offer community service that is not value-making work, from which there is no further journey. Public work is a good starting point, a zeroth step. But the conditions must be created for those who want to thrive in the Hungarian villages, who want to stay young, to be able to move forward. And since they can't find a job in big city companies today, you can't expect that to be done on a market basis. Here we have to act, the state has a role and a job to do. The next step should be to create conditions for job creation in the social economy. It is necessary to create an opportunity to move forward so that those who want to come together with the help of the state, and first in a supportive way, and then constantly helping them, can become profitable businesses from the social economy, which could revitalize them, and then breathe life back into rural life. I am not talking about what you have done in the field of social cooperatives, because you know that it is not a social cooperative, which is about borrowing or extending EU subsidies, but I am thinking of what Mr.István Nagy also said that, for example, in Austria, Mr. State Secretary, farmers in agriculture have developed a quasi-cooperative system in which virtually local economic development was started. Let's go see Burgenland. If a customer in Burgenland goes into the local convenience store, he won't buy an egg that doesn't have a Burgenland stamp on it, because he knows exactly that if he wants to live as a hairdresser in the village, the only way he can make a living is if he has an income for someone who works in agriculture, so he's going to buy his egg and not anyone else's. And there has been a very conscious local economic development, and for this there has been a very serious public network, which has been created in the organization, management, market organisation, logistics background and everything at the time, otherwise I note in parentheses that with Hungarian know-how and with the help of Hungarian professionals, only while we have built this knowledge, they have built it up. We do not need to invent the curve in the spoon, honourable colleagues, but we need to put the Hungarian countryside back in the position with active public resources in order to give young people living in the countryside a new perspective that if they want to do something, they have the opportunity to do it again. The tools for this would be available, but it is not necessary to develop a policy of support in which everything can be stolen, in which we finance small railways and fake social cooperatives and temporary employment, but to restore the processes, the economic processes with which the Hungarian countryside will be viable again. Thank you so much for listening.
u2016-11-23-234	I give the floor to Secretary of State István Nagy.
u2016-11-23-235	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, Employment in agriculture continued to increase this year, with the number of employees in the sector in the first three quarters of 2016 being 219 thousand, which was 8.3 percent, i.e. 16,700 more than a year ago. Yes, one of the most important indicators of the recovery and renewal of the countryside is that people stay there, want to work and live. I think if you look at those processes, we can give you some pretty good examples. Appreciation of the garden! The first very important aspect is that self-sufficiency can be solved, and the garden can help with payment in addition to its own self-sufficiency. From now on, what's unnecessary can be brought to the market, which again brings an income supplement. Supporting short supply chains on the part of the government is exactly what it is for us to obtain additional revenues. The handicraft products we produce are again of a quality that can go to the markets at a very good price. And there is an absolute possibility of creating a social economy, because the government allows all municipalities and allows associations to create social economies. Where there is reception skills, where there are people who want to do things, then they have the opportunity. There are many very good examples in the country. [[20.30]] And what my fellow Member has mentioned, let me add to the cooperative system a very small addition. For five years we will give 150 million forints to the cooperative association that brings producers together and reaches the market together. I think it's a direction, a help we can be proud of. The other hidden reserve in agriculture is precisely the role of public workers. There is a lot of debate about the fact that public workers do not have agricultural seasonal workers, and public workers produce products that make the situation worse for farmers. I think this is the hidden reserve that farmers need to take advantage of. We have to get them to do this, and we have to say it, even by force, for public workers to want to work in the competitive sector, and we have to call them with the kind of grace they come with. Let me tell you that we have passed a law on the extent to which the employer's public burden on agricultural seasonal work is 500 forints per day of employment, and this has enabled everyone who employs it. Several measures were taken by the government in 2015 to ensure consistency between public employment and simplified employment. For example, public employment should be excluded from public employment for a period of three months if the work offered under simplified employment is not accepted. From 90 days to 120 days, the period during which public-employed short-term employment, such as agricultural seasonal work, could be increased. I think it's a two-way street. On a legal level, we have made it possible to involve public workers as simply as possible, so that they can earn double wages in the first year, so that it is worth it to him to come out of community service. After all, the government is giving all the support to their employers. I think if there's a will in this, there's a determination, then as a hidden reserve, they can be brought into the competitive sphere, and agriculture is ready for their reception. Thank you very much. [[It's a rare round of applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-11-23-236	I now give the floor to Congressman Gábor Bányai in a normal time frame.
u2016-11-23-237	Thank you very much for the floor. Before I say my own words, as I was preparing for my speech here, Gábor Bellozó mentioned Iceland, and I would like to introduce Iceland in a slightly different colour than he has shown. Think about it, Iceland is just bigger than Miskolc. [[Zoltán Grimlock: They have a lot of hot water.]] Excuse me, Mr. Pride? Thank you for the floor, Mr. Haughty. So the point is, he was talking about Iceland, and now it's non plus ultra in his eyes or in your eyes. We are talking about a country of 300,000, which, when the crisis broke out, the three banks created a crisis in the country with a debt of five times its GDP, since then their debt to 27.5 per cent of GDP is now 100 per cent. The government there couldn't take on the loan that their back bank had taken up before the fall of the Lehman Brothers, which resulted in the currency there being five times the dollar. As a result, the value of the payments there fell to virtually a fifth. Taxes have doubled, all contributions have been doubled, and Iceland still suffers from these previous bad decisions and bad management. Today Iceland is not a good example, an unfortunate country that could not get out of the crisis. The hole in the pension system, which is gaping, is 80 percent of GDP, which is the absence of a pension system. So let's just say it's a little different here, so don't start this debate. Another important thing is that when you talk about the examples in Burgenland, these are excellent examples. These can be classified from Styria, Carinthia, Slovenia. But do you know that when I look back on the past between 2002 and 2010, dear Congresswoman Wind, you couldn't slaughter pigs in Hungary, you couldn't bring eggs to the market under your government. Then no one was yelling from those benches. Yet, almost no animal could be slaughtered in homes, it was banned after EU accession. Let's not forget that. Besides, I also miss the fact that the number of food processors in Hungary is low, and I miss that Hungarian consumers do not consume enough Hungarian goods, but this is another story, which could be discussed, but this is not the subject of today. What did I want to talk to you about? Thank you very much for waiting for this. And I have maybe five minutes to tell you. By the way, I live in a part of the country with nearly 38 regions or walks in the border areas of the country, where the problems are huge. And not from today, not from 2010, not from 2002, but from earlier. Where we live, a congressman lives, not so far from us, although he was not here at the time, in the '90s, in our border they bombed parts of the rest of the Yugoslav state, and before the 2000s, the last bombing was in '99. So no one came to invest there. Congressman Grumpy knows the fate of the state economy there, it is true you can tell us, because we had such problems, but practically all of them, all of them were destroyed under their government, and today there is no serious employer who can solve employment in the southern part of Bács-Kiskun County. It is very important that we and similar parts of the country, along the border, to the south, to the east, to the north, to the coast of Ipoly, have similar problems. But I also want to bring back the history because my fellow Members here look to our right in the opposition benches as if in 2010 the Canaan was in Hungary, as if everything was dripping with milk and honey, and then the good came especially to the people of the country, everyone lived well, the forint was flying low compared to the Swiss franc, everything was fine. That's what they say day by day when we want to explain where we started. And there is no fellow Member from KDNP, István Hollik, who was quoted and mocked that Jókai has already been quoted twice. Excellent quote, by the way. Believe me, anyone who doesn't learn from the past will not understand anything from the present, and let the future be left behind. So that's why we want to learn from it. But they always forget, so we have to tell them where we started. [[Intercom from the opposition benches.]] Ladies and gentlemen, I sometimes call or yell, I don't deny it, but I always listen to my fellow Members, wherever they speak. First of all, we're in 2003, we're farming at home with my family, we're growing apples, it's not a secret. We were in a very difficult situation in 2003, as from 2002 a new aid system came into the economy and into the budget subsystems. In a few years, aid rates, budget figures quadrupled, went from the previous 120 to 480 billion forints, and by 2003, they disappeared, I might say, to our fellow Member's constituency, and the two-hand workers disappeared. If there are no people from Transylvania, from other parts of Romania, in the vineyards, in the tomato fields, or in the orchards, then in Bács-Kiskun, but not in Hajdúsag, Szabolcs, because how would they be, they were disqualified from the work. [[Zoltán Grimlock: You've been ruling for six years.]] Zoli, listen to me. Listen to me, Zoli. Okay, I'd just like to teach Congressman Haughty a little bit. So the point is, if you'd listen and understand, it's because of the relief systems, people who used to come to work in agriculture from March to October and November have disappeared. We're an agricultural region, we can't run car factories. [[Zoltán Haughty interrupts.]] The following is: during your administration, they were able to get us there, practically by raising the relief system, they had the effect in the rest of society, who lived on wages and salaries, that they were shocked by the fact that the hell is that the country is quite serious, it sustains hundreds of thousands of layers, who were practically able to live that way, that they didn't have to work, that they only received aid, and that the people of the country helped it out in everything. Those who lived on welfare realized that it was possible, even worth living for. So we didn't get a chance to drag them out of this world. It's been like this for eight years. The other very important date in this flashback is 1 May 2004 when we entered the European Union. By the way, in daylight throughout the country, a lot of fireworks were launched to the sky, which had already indicated that EU accession would be a problem. [[20.40]] Practically the trinity that we accepted at the time of accession to the EU, the flow of free capital, goods and labour, that is practically, if we consider it, sealed the labour markets of Eastern Europe towards Western Europe, because the difference that still stands, and it was here that, of course, because we want to go back to Mohács, no, but the fact is that the labour market situation is greatly influenced by the fact that in Western Europe, Austria, nearly four times as much as in Germany, wages are also four times what they get for the same work in Hungary. It is also true what it is like for car manufacturers from Western Europe to pay three or four times as much in material prices in Germany or in other countries as in Hungary, but I am telling you that in Kecskemét and other parts of the country, I think that there are a lot of trained workers and skilled workers who did not get a job in other places, and if they could be mobile, with a salary between 200 and 450 thousand forints if they got in line and started working, I think they would be satisfied, and even those workers who left us would want to live on welfare, even if they could or would want to work. But believe me, this other one is going to be a very big problem: how to get people who in the public work programme - as they have said - to say, wrongfully and hurtfully, otherwise, what the quality of life of public workers and their human maintenance are like for the morale of their work. Otherwise, in most of Hungary's settlements, if there were no public workers, they would be swimming in garbage and dirt. Wherever public workers work in the country, believe me, they do many beautiful, great things, they should be praised. I'd like to say one more addition. What we have seen in those eight years is that the left-wing government, whose problem we are still wearing, and everyone has been eating poison ever since, has somehow never been as urgent as the price increase. This is what all the citizens of the country have experienced. It also had to come from this, and from the fact that my fellow Members, do not forget, Hungary has raised its public debt from 7400 billion forints of debt in eight years to over 21 000 billion. If this leads to the other negatives I've listed, believe me, the second civilian government has inherited a catastrophic situation, not to mention the trap of foreign currency credit. You can say, Mr Harangozó, that we broke down the forint, but in October 2008 the value of the Swiss franc had already increased from HUF 150 to HUF 270 for a few weeks, and then our esteemed and unfortunately troubled Hungarian foreign exchange ensnared our countrymen. I would just like to say to you that the solution is being asked by everyone, one thing is certain: until there is no stronger Hungarian economy, there is no stronger growth, there is no innovative entrepreneurs in the country who are able to put Hungary's economy on a different path, there will be a need for investors who have arrived or will arrive in Hungary. But there are already one or two examples in the country, where Hungarian capital-powered entrepreneurs bring their money home, start investing in their own settlements or neighborhoods. I can list countless examples from the southern part of Bács-Kiskun County. But the point is that there are still no plans in Hungary that we had earlier today, and between 94 and 96, during the privatisation, companies have been beaten up, their markets and products are still very lacking. So there's work to be done, and look back on the past, because that's the past we inherited, believe me, let alone dark, it was much worse. Thank you for your attention. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2016-11-23-238	I now give the floor to Congressman Márton Gyöngyösi.
u2016-11-23-239	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, I have been following this debate for a long time, and it would be okay for ministers and ministers of state representing the government in the Chamber to give up government propaganda, but for Members of Parliament who, even if they are pro-government representatives, have gained their mandate from constituencies and even from individual constituencies. [[Intercoms from the pro-government benches.]] , and they represent tens of thousands of voters here in this House, they also reach government propaganda, which is more than disappointing and tells much about the current state of Hungarian parliamentarism. The fact that in the sixth year of communication governance there are some government factors talking about fairy tales and fantastic flowering, I understand and let's face it, let's be fair, let's be fair, let's be positive about macro numbers, let's be positive and optimistic, because indeed, according to the macro numbers, the government is right. [[Sándor Font: Thank you.]] If you say that the financial and economic crisis could be brought to an end, GDP is soaring, the economy is growing, employment is skyrocketing, unemployment has been pushed down by the government, inflation has decreased, and in this sense the budget deficit has been kept to a minimum, and the result has been, since the various international credit rating agencies have rated Hungary. Let us be fair and fair, macro data can indeed give rise to some positive optimism. I personally believe that in a country that wants to catch up economically, there is a tight fiscal policy, fiscal policy, a looser monetary policy that provides money to the economy and finances loans, and this brings financial stability with a good balance, this is a viable way under certain conditions. And this is without doubt that, if we confront the economic policy that the socioliberal governments had previously conducted, which, on the contrary, has been spending high interest rates on a loose fiscal policy, has raised public debt and pursued a poor monetary policy, there is no doubt progress in relation to macro numbers and the macro economy. All of this, backed up by foreign exchange loans under the social liberal government, which, in the short term, showed a kind of promising perspective in addition to the high level of interest rates prevailing at the time, and the small and medium-sized enterprises and Hungarian families were drawn into a life-threatening structure, which the Hungarian economy still drinks, can be said to be compared to this level, but this is not necessarily the level to which I think a self-taxing government is necessarily measuring itself. If fairy tales were mentioned, then the question may arise as to why the kind of fairy tale that György Matolcsy and Minister of Economy Mihály Varga are visiting is not shown in society, why is the fairy tale seen differently by a Hungarian family, such as the Audi factory or the Standard & Poor - s credit rating agency. Now, the fact is, ladies and gentlemen, that the type of economic policy that you have followed has been at a very high price, that the budgetary rigour has had to pay a very high price, because government expenditure has been withdrawn from financing health care and funding education among other things, wages have fallen, quality of life has deteriorated, and tax policy has reached its peak, and tax policy has not supported the lower layers of society, the people seeking, while corruption has already reached almost the records of the banana republic. The biggest problem with your economic policy is that it has not fundamentally brought about any structural, qualitative change, it has only been able to achieve quantitative changes, while the kinds of successes that you are trying to make with government propaganda and communication to believe the Hungarian electorate, in which you - because these facts have undoubtedly been helped by a multitude of external factors. No one can deny that one of the biggest causes of the Hungarian economy, the Hungarian GDP growth, is the drawing of European Union funds. The low rate of inflation in a deflation environment is not really your merit, it is an international trend that has little to do with the Hungarian government. The growth of the economy, in addition to the external trends surrounding us, stems from the productivity of multinational companies established in Hungary. [[20.50]] So in this sense, we can say that your economic policy has not actually brought about a qualitative structural change, and we can only talk about quantitative change. The Hungarian people work more, but they do low wages and lower jobs, unfortunately, thanks to this failed 26-year-old economic policy, like their Western counterparts. Since the change of regime, the economic policy of the first Orbán government, the second Orbán government, and the socio-liberal governments has been that foreign investment, foreign capital attractions will improve competitiveness, and in this illusion you have rocked yourselves, just as my fellow socialists have done, but this is a complete abstraction and a complete impossibility. Foreign capital is not interested in anything but the cheap labour force and the conditions that governments have provided for them, the cheap and skilled labour force and the service conditions created by the governments here. Several of my fellow Members have mentioned the philosophy in Orbán or the economic market in Orbán with which you are marketing Hungary abroad and trying to attract foreign capital. You say that the labour force in Hungary is cheap but well-trained, and as a result of the government's blessed activity, the Labour Code is sufficiently flexible, ergo it will provide the Hungarian workforce to the multinational companies established here, we will provide tax reliefs to the multinationals established here, and we will even provide state support, many billions, so that the multinational companies established here will create jobs, and they will have a strategic partnership with them if they show up here on the Hungarian market. Corruption is also a factor that has achieved unprecedented heights under your governance. In the distribution of EU funds and public procurement, the corruption mechanism is working perfectly, and you have put it to the top. What matters in Hungary today is not what anyone knows, what they are capable of, but what kind of relationship they have with power. What can be done, fellow Members? Because the situation is not completely hopeless, and what to do would be a lot and a lot. In order to be able to have a sensible and professional debate on an issue such as what we are talking about here, it would be very good to say, as a first step, that we do not deceive ourselves, we do not deceive ourselves with bad statistics and bad data. There is a number war going on here, and as if we were speaking two different languages. It would be very good to get us off this blind spot and to implement the reform of the statistical metrics, as we can see that we are essentially interpreting the numbers that KSH will show in a different way. The current figures are bad and do not reflect the current state of the Hungarian economy. The Hungarian economy is measured in GDP by a total error and an economic absurdity. The performance of the economy of Germany, the United States of America or Great Britain may be measured well by the GDP indicator, but certainly not in Hungary, because it is an open economy. [[Sándor Font: No way!]] in which... [[Sándor Font: Economics is science!]] in which... [[Sándor Font: It can't be a good measure of one and it can't measure the other, that's the case!]] Explain to me, my honourable fellow Member, I will listen to you. [[Sándor Font: Economics is science!]] Thank you very much. [[Sándor Font intervenes. How do you know that, Sanyi?]] In Hungary, GDP is the most important measure of what foreign capital, which is geographically located here in Hungary, does not show the performance of small and medium-sized enterprises, which has been completely destroyed in the last 26 years. Today, for example, the performance of the Hungarian economy would be reflected in GNI and gross national income. So it would be good to switch to indicators in which there is full agreement and which show the real performance of the Hungarian economy. In terms of employment, it would also be good to move in a direction that shows the performance of local governments or economic policy here in the Hungarian labour market. The fact that public workers and people who migrated west of Hungary are shown in the statistics, and you are here blinking about how many jobs you have created here, not under market conditions, but only by government means, is a classified case of self-attack. Now, with regard to the low level of wages and wages, I am very pleased that we have finally started to talk about the fact that, yes, it is possible to work with government tools to increase and increase the level of wages in Hungary, and, yes, with the radical increase in minimum wages, the Hungarian government can encourage and create the threshold that is guiding a given economy in terms of pay. But once again, I would like to emphasise that measures that try to compensate multinational companies for such measures, such as the radical reduction of corporate tax, are again not the way, because for a small and medium-sized enterprise that has paid corporate tax up to HUF 500 million at 10 per cent, it is not certain that it will be possible to pay a tax rate at 9 per cent now, not at 10 per cent. This is not a benefit to small and medium-sized enterprises, but it is once again putting multinational companies in a favourable position. What is the task of Hungarian economic policy? I believe that Hungarian economic policy cannot save itself the task or the objective that, in the long term - and I know precisely that this is not the task of a government cycle, this would be a strategy across government cycles - which aims to increase Hungarian productivity, so that it does not derail the entire country into the assembly plant of Western industry, and gives low added value, low-wage work to multinational companies established here, but, by massively investing in education, research and development, invests the Hungarian workforce in a higher level of global production value chain, and targets higher productivity in Hungary, and the Hungarian economy joins the global production value chain with higher added value. This has already been said here, and I did not make it up now; a fellow Member has already mentioned: instead of a work-based economy, we need to build a knowledge-based society in which investment in research and development and education must be the goal of Hungarian economic policy. Thank you so much for listening. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2016-11-23-240	I give the floor to Congressman Tamás László.
u2016-11-23-241	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, I have also been watching this debate for a long time, and I must say that there are actually two dialogues here: there is a deaf dialogue between the ruling party and the opposition, and I think there is a real dialogue between the pro-government representatives and the working people, and I think that is more important, and what we are talking about is this. [[Peter Cseresnyés: That's right! Dr. László Varga: Tell them what they think. Zoltán Pride: I can't see them! Why didn't you invite them? You should have!]] In fact, I am very grateful for the political debate initiated by the opposition, and I would like to thank you very much for that, because it is an opportunity for us, the members of the government, to present in detail the steps we have taken since 2010 on the world of work, and also to outline the basis for our work-related ideas and the resulting vision of our future. I think you miss that most of all, but in fact, in all our comments, this vision of the vision has also been published. In 2010, when Fidesz took over the government, Hungary was in a position like Greece - a lot of people talked about it, as well as Members and State Secretarys. [[Dr. László Varga intervenes.]] I must say, if the left were in power, we would still be in as much trouble as the Greeks. [[Dr. László Varga: Because you said such things, the forint fell!]] The reason why this topic is here is because 2010 is the origo dot that we can relate to. 2010 is a time when all the sins of the entire twenty years since the change of regime were actually committed and faced by the Orbán government. [[21.00]] So, in fact, when we talk about our ambitions for today's world of economic and social work, [[Interview from the benches of MSZP: Doctor!]] Then it's actually about healing this 20-year-old. It has to be said that all the drives of spontaneous and legal privatisation, including the full privatisation of public services with the incredibly secured profits, must be rectified here. Complete industries have disappeared and there has been a huge level of unemployment, and unfortunately, children in Roma families in East Hungary have grown up without seeing their parents working at all, and have not seen them going to work. That is why the public work programme had to be put in place. [[Dr. István Hiller, vice-president of the Parliament, takes the chair.]] So the person who speaks against the public work programme is, in fact, I think that he is telling us about a huge social blindness, because this was an unheard of need. The very big problem is that from public work, because these are older people and unfortunately unskilled people, the transfer to a world of valuable work is not only difficult, but in many cases impossible. In addition, we have taken huge steps since 2010, and in Greece, as I mentioned, average wages have decreased, unemployment has increased, we have carried out counterproductive processes. [[Interview from the benches of the MSZP: It was quite different in 10th grade.]] Now whatever opposition representatives nod, this has been confirmed by the large credit rating agencies, which were first skeptical of Hungarian economic policy, and then they began to demonstrate that these are long-term steps, they are serious steps, they are sound steps, and they can be built on them. In the 2010 situation, the country had to be dragged back from the brink of bankruptcy. Now I think that we are in a very merciful position - no matter how much you object to such words - about the world of Hungarian work. This was also the subject of wage negotiations between the government, employers and employees which took place the other day with extraordinary results. Very interesting, I don't know, I think Népszava represents you Socialists, they protest against wage increases in an interesting way. [[Zoltán Grumpy: Did your medicine roll? Are you sick?]] And they represent the world of employers, and I must also say that whoever watched the trialogues with fiasco ended on Friday, there it was said that Minister Mihály Varga suspended the trial, said that it would probably be necessary to settle without employers. On the other hand, minimal concessions have succeeded in concluding the Tripartite Agreement. So you can see here that there's an irresponsible government that wants to distribute at all costs, and there's a good governance that stretches as far as the blanket goes. [[Zoltán Grimlock, who wants to steal at all costs!]] and when it is possible to take serious steps, take these steps immediately. Two more sentences in connection with this idea of foundation. As a Christian Democrat, as a Christian social representative, as a politician, I consider good work a particularly positive direction, and for good work the government and government have taken a lot of steps. Such a step is, for example, to provide 60% of EU funds to small and medium-sized enterprises. This is an incredible addition to the innovation, renewal and development of small and medium-sized enterprises. The extraordinary increase in the minimum wage of 17 and beyond and the increase in the mandatory minimum wage are made in order to achieve the same idea, which will also bring with it a significant increase in average wages. The fact that we spend 700 billion forints in the coming years on innovation, mentioned by Congressman Gyöngyösi, is an unprecedented amount. The fact that in the present and future driving sectors of Hungarian work and economy, good work has extraordinary opportunities and the line can continue for a long time. We are in favour of good work and we appreciate it very much, and in this situation, it is our most important task to stand up for it. [[Dr. László Varga: Doctor!]] And it has to be said that a person who, by misinterpreting, evaluating or demanding excessive, pointless, unfulfilled demands and daydreamings takes that hope, undermines it, endangers our common future. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from the pro-government ranks.]]
u2016-11-23-242	Thank you very much. Welcome, good evening. Congresswoman Erzsébet Schmuck, LMP, please.
u2016-11-23-243	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, After the Prime Minister's recent statements, we thought that the government, having seen that it had steered the country in the wrong direction, would change course. However, the last few days and weeks have shown that this is not what is happening. The government did not side with the employees, but simply realized that it could no longer win the downward wage competition, as Mihály Varga said, the labour force is no longer the cheapest. The government, therefore, apparently with a painful heart, gave up the struggle to make Hungarians the worst paid workers in Europe. [[Péter Cseresnyés: Oh, my God, such nonsense!]] Instead, he wants to be number one in another, to create favourable conditions for foreign large companies. The government decided to join the downward tax competition and turn Hungary into a tax haven. [[Dr. Wind Bernadett: That's right!]] The wage negotiations and the wage agreement concluded yesterday clearly showed that the government has no intention of providing a solution to emigration and labour shortages; it is not in its mind to build competitiveness on high added value, education, health and green economy rather than on multinationals with low wages or taxes and state aid. As a result of the wage negotiations, the net value of the minimum wage will increase by HUF 11 000 to HUF 85 000, i.e. even next year it will not reach the minimum salary of HUF 88 thousand in 2015. [[Dr. Wind Bernadett: That's right!]] Next year, you can't make a living working at a minimum wage for eight hours. This means that, taking into account the reduction of the employer's contribution, the total wage cost of a minimum wage worker will increase by nearly HUF 15,000. And since the generous corporate tax reduction affects only the largest of half a million companies, the burden of small and medium-sized enterprises with 75 per cent of workers is significantly increased. Many, as experts now say, many small and medium-sized enterprises will not be able to manage this, and unfortunately this 1 percent reduction in income tax will not help them. Thus, as a result, there will be no large-scale wage increase, and the minimum wage will not rise above the minimum wage next year. Moreover, the wage does not automatically increase above the minimum wage, since the reduction of employer contributions comes from employers, so they decide whether to increase the wages of workers. But it is more likely that they will try to cover the higher wage costs of minimum wage workers by reducing contributions. The increase in the minimum wage and the guaranteed minimum wage in the other pay categories can push wages upwards after a while, but this may take several years until another tens of thousands leave the country. Therefore, this wage agreement cannot stop the emigration. Competitiveness is not increasing, as the government is once again giving foreign large companies a gift of nearly 150 billion instead of investing in the training of the workforce. The single rate of corporate tax and the reduction to 9 percent benefit only the few thousand large companies that have already put a lot of support in their pockets. Losses in budget revenues draw funds from education, health care, that is, areas that are the basis for Hungary's long-term development and which could really make the economy competitive. In addition, small and medium-sized enterprises face a further competitive disadvantage vis-à-vis already significant foreign large companies. According to LMP, wage negotiations were already on the wrong track, the government narrowed the margins. If it is true that the parties went up to the wall, then we can also say that the wall was raised by the government. The negotiations should not have been about compensating businesses for wage increases by choosing one of the lesser or greater evils. We should have talked about how a fair tax system could be created that does not tax income below the minimum living standards, and in which everyone is doing their part in bearing public burdens according to their capacity to bear the burden. [[21.10]] The reduction in contributions under the current wage agreement will cost the budget about HUF 90 billion per percentage, i.e. 5 percentage points of employer contributions to approximately HUF 450 billion. If we add the corporate tax loss of approximately HUF 145, 160, 170 billion to this, we can see that this is going to be a revenue loss of more than HUF 600 billion for the budget. We believe that this could have been used to introduce a fair multi-key tax, and then more people could have received a higher wage increase without increasing the burden on small and medium-sized enterprises. In addition to the multi-key tax alone, a wage increase could have been made that would have significantly increased wages at the lowest wage level and in higher wage categories. The LMP's multi-key tax system and its proposal for a reduction in contributions would have been a radical tax reduction for average or lower-average earners now taxed, and the reduction of employee contributions instead of employers would have been an automatic wage increase for minimum wages. Dear House, The LMP would introduce a progressive tax system of 0-12-24 keys. Wages would be exempt up to the minimum wage level and employee contributions would be reduced by 6.5 percent. We've said this a few times, but we're gonna tell you a lot more. We're gonna keep saying that until they understand that. This would mean that the minimum wage would increase by double to 32% instead of 15 percent next year, which would increase net wages by 23,000 forints instead of 11 thousand. The average wage earner's tax would also be reduced from 15 to 12 percent, which would mean a net wage increase of 37 thousand HUF. Due to the characteristics of band taxation, i.e. the fact that the higher rates apply only to the part of the income above the given band limit, the lower rates would have a long impact even on the higher income. The wages of double average wage earners would increase by HUF 31,000. I very much hope that, sooner or later, my fellow pro-government Members will understand that the introduction of lane taxation and multi-key personal income tax systems will not result in additional taxation. You guys really like to talk about that. What's happening? Thus, the unfair tax system, which is one of the highest taxes on work in the international context, remains one of the lowest taxes on capital in the international context. The reduction in corporate income tax does make the country a tax haven and follows the same logic as single-key personal income tax. It seems to us that this is a neoliberal step in the blood, and it is supplying the country to transnational companies who are playing each other against each other, so that they can pay less taxes and deprive the country of important revenues, from which genuine competitiveness could be improved. This is an unfair government that unfairly taxes Hungarian people and domestic businesses. If there was power in the government, you'd break up with your mistakes so far, admit that there's a solution that would make up for the mistakes of the last few years and decades. To do this, we need to break off with the neoliberal economic policy that has a high tax on labour, low tax on capital, which does not invest in education, training, health care, which is the country's long-term development and catching up, but is wasting resources. Every country that has made a significant catch-up in the last half century, whether in East Asia, Scandinavian or other regions, has certainly done one thing: it has raised its spending on education to a very large extent and has not allowed it in the event of temporary crises. We see the government insisting that we join the international division of labour only as a assembly country, where people work for low wages alongside the assembly line. This strategy must be given up, the assembly country has no future. It is necessary to switch to a development model based on higher wages and knowledge. The effectiveness of this has already been demonstrated by the Scandinavian states. We need to start changing external dependence to make better use of our own resources, instead of exporting EU funds and multinationals, focus on future industries and small and medium-sized enterprises. Instead of assembly activities, competitiveness needs to be built on small domestic businesses capable of producing high added value. This requires a favourable environment for domestic businesses instead of multinationals, a level playing field and support innovation and R &amp; D. It is necessary to create an entrepreneur-friendly environment where talent and work can move you forward, not through relationships. And we need a fair tax system, which is also beneficial for smaller businesses and does not overburden the work. In the public sector, we also see the need for an eight-year-old civil servant salary increase. Finally, I would like to mention that, in addition to better jobs and higher wages, affordable and accessible housing opportunities must also be provided. [[Dr. Wind Bernadett: That's right.]] Therefore, it is important to have a rental program. The LMP also submitted an amendment to the budget, which would give a start-up boost to a large-scale rental program. We believe that the proposals of the LMP should be taken into account by the government if it really wants to change direction and make it possible for the labour force to stop leaving Hungary.
u2016-11-23-244	Thank you very much. There are two-minute speeches coming up. First, Congressman Gábor Bellozó, MSZP.
u2016-11-23-245	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I would like to respond to Mr Secretary of State, Mr István Nagy. Perhaps I would like to give you a specific example to make it quite clear to everyone what I am talking about when I am talking about restoring the countryside. Besides Siófok - there is a serious shortage of workers in the area of Siófok, because of the tourism in Balaton it really is a prosperous region - the Tabian region is just 15 kilometers away from Siófok, one of the most disadvantaged small regions in the country, where there is virtually a larger employer today and jobs are constantly being lost. Twenty-five years ago, the district worked for 26 thousand people in this area, and today about 10,000 people work in the whole district, and only 30 wagons of the local fruit production could be brought together by the local farmers. The thing is, Mr Secretary, is that we could do things like this today, but today there is no product, and there is no one to sell it to. That is why it is necessary for the State to enter and create the conditions for this. And how could this be financed, for example? The fact that in the same Tabian region, when a wind farm project was created, in 2010 it had its measurements, it had its permits, and this project was shut down, even though it would have been worth HUF 200 million a year to Tab, which, for example, could have made the necessary improvements. But you stopped it. They stopped it because they put energy importers who stole hundreds of millions of forints from the system through energy imports and took away the possibility of local energy generation being the engine for the development of the local economy, for example, the Tabi wind farm. That's what I'm talking about, Mr. Secretary. Thank you.
u2016-11-23-246	Congressman János Pócs, Fidesz, in two minutes.
u2016-11-23-247	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, I took the liberty of raising my voice at this item on the agenda today for one thing. Congressman Márton Gyöngyösi is clearly trying to arouse remorse in those pro-government Members who are also electoral district presidents. You don't know these two positions at the same time, because you didn't win constituencies for a while, as you continue, you won't. But only so that Congressman Gyöngyösi understands that a pro-government representative, chairman of the constituency, let's say, on today's agenda, is manifested in the spirit of the voters behind him. Honourable Congressman, I speak for myself and for the region. The companies living in Jászság and the employees were honoured and thanked the government for their economic policy so that we can say in Jászság that the tax and contribution payments are HUF 40 billion, which is much more than during the MSZP administration, which is much more than during the crisis. [[Noise, interruptions from the ranks of the MSZP, including Zoltán Gőgös: What do they owe you?]] [[21.20]] These companies give jobs to 25,000 people. This is much more than during the MSZP governance period and much more than in the period prior to the crisis. Thanks to the government's economic policy, a German company ThyssenKrupp settled in Jászság with an investment of HUF 30 billion. Ladies and gentlemen, Behind all this is the knowledge and the will to do that the government has found healthy harmony between companies, employers and employees, which you will never do. My fellow Members, they speak as if they were not here, this week we reduced taxes, this week we raised wages and minimum wage. Ladies and gentlemen, in case you didn't notice, you have rejoined Ferenc Gyurcsány from the opposition today, who told these companies that they could leave. They left, and this government brought him back. [[The President shall ring a bell to indicate the expiry of the time limit.]] If the Jobbik were on the government, these companies would leave again. Thank you, Mr. President. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-11-23-248	Congresswoman Bernadett Wind, LMP.
u2016-11-23-249	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I am interested here in listening to the US Secretary of State, who stands alongside the single-key tax system, and is speaking to the Members. I have found Viktor Orbán's statement published on 9 February 2010, here:. Orbán: we need a multi-key tax system. So the current Prime Minister of Hungary, who introduced the single-key tax system in Hungary, said, I quote: . To the question of whether they are thinking in a single-key tax system, he said that if the tax system does not take into account how many people live on the amount requested, how many people are kept, it will never be fair. It follows that it cannot be a key, it must be several categories. Well, that's about as much as Fidesz can be expected. In 2010 the campaign promised a multi-key tax system, they came to government, and here they say that without a key there is no happiness in Hungary. The fact is that our tax system against yours would be a relief for everyone, because it should be less taxed by those who already have less. As mentioned above, the minimum wagers would receive 23,000 HUF more, the average wagers would receive 37,000 HUF more, but even those who receive twice the average wage would receive 31,000 HUF more in their wallets. On the other hand, you take the money away from the poor and give it to the rich: 134 billion were taken from the poorer people, I am talking about the lower seven decylis, who is good at it here in this room, and 500 billion was given to the upper category. Now, the big problem with that is that economics, once we have learned here, calls economics science, my honourable fellow Member, a perverted redistribution, and that is precisely because practically everyone knows that if we want to keep a society together, we cannot take it away from the poor and give it more to the rich. So from now on, ladies and gentlemen, if you do not change the tax system, you have done nothing for this country and for better wages, because it is this tax system that puts people under pressure. [[The President shall ring a bell to indicate the expiry of the time limit.]] And it's not true that you have no influence on the tax system, so you invented it.
u2016-11-23-250	Congressman János Volner, Jobbik.
u2016-11-23-251	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, Let us not forget that the government came to a crossroads not too long ago, and he chose to give the amount between HUF 145-170 billion to the corporate tax reduction, to foreign-owned companies with the richest, highest turnover, not to the working Hungarian people. This shows the government's values, which, I have to say, consistently demonstrates the policy of the Orbán government: the single-key tax has benefited the richest, all the tax policies and other measures, such as the end-payments, have benefited the richest, and by delivering the corporate tax rate to 9 percent, they are again in favour of the richest companies. I ask where the lower or average Hungarian people are, and the government clearly does not want to favour them. I would also like to add that, moreover, this reduction in the corporate tax rate follows that a foreign company does not have to tax its income on dividends as a Hungarian company. So I add to the words of Bernadett Szél that yet another perversion of perverse redistribution is that Hungarian businesses are being taxed better, as the income generated in the dividend segment is being sabotaged by the Hungarian State, while a foreign enterprise or a Hungarian company that disguises itself as a foreign company, for example, in the form of an offshore company, escapes such taxes. That's what I think is pretty brutal. I would also like to draw the attention of fellow Members to the consequences of wages below the minimum wage within the public work system. They spend 360 billion forints of taxpayers' money on this, but there is hardly any meaningful production going on: there is no production of value, nothing is going on, workers are being tied down, statistics are being improved, but they hardly create value. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2016-11-23-252	On behalf of the government, Mr. Nándor Csepreghy asked for the floor. Here you go.
u2016-11-23-253	Mr President, Thank you very much for the opportunity to speak. I am trying to make a point, so that we can really have a substantive debate, but for example, if I listen to what the head of the group said and separate what she said from what she said from what she said in order, she will in itself make completely contradictory statements. On one side, he tells us how important value-building work is in Hungary, so that we do not become assembly plants. On the other hand, the fact is that if we really look at the value-creating companies in Hungary, they belong to the production chain at the end or at the beginning of which there is a multinational company in Hungary. They say in this debate how bad investment in the automotive industry is, and then, on the same day, in the afternoon, Mr Ikotity tells us that the future is for self-driving cars, they must also be produced somewhere. They say here in Parliament's debate that, among other things, labour issues are a serious problem in Hungary and the region, and Germany is taken as an example while not remembering that the German, French and, where appropriate, the British labour market is facing the same challenges. They tell us what wage differences exist between the countries of the Hungarian or Central-Eastern European region and Germany or, let us say, the British labour market, but they do not tell us how the standard of living, the livelihood issues are going. I think half-truths can build political lounges, but not a real government program. [[Dr. Wind Bernadett: Read our program, Mr. Secretary.]] I'd be happy to do it when I get it. [[Dr. Wind Bernadett: LMP.hu!]] Thank you very much. I'll try to find him. On the other hand, Congresswoman, you are forgetting a number of very important measures, which are taking steps in the very directions that you are asking for. They say innovation must be promoted. Only in the period 2014-20, the government's innovation expenditures were doubled compared to the previous period, from HUF 350 billion to HUF 700 billion. The Congresswoman talks a lot about the need for a completely different employment structure, the need for a smaller state, and the need for simpler administration. Then, when the government takes steps in this direction, partly in order to partially address labour market shortages, they act on a trade union side. If the LMP really takes seriously the claims it makes, it is very important that it takes a coherent position and does not use constant opposition behaviour to determine what position it takes in these debates on a case. So I think that what has been on the agenda here today in several debates, as a result of which 650 thousand people work more in Hungary today than in 2010, is indeed a value to be appreciated. Two thirds of this 650 thousand people were on the primary labour market, and the remaining one third in the categories that you criticized, but the people you criticized, for example, in the case of public employment, were completely inactive. So today, for example, it is possible to criticise the issue of minimum wage for public workers and these public benefits that these people receive, only this is by tens of thousands of forints more than what the left-wing policy has built in those addiction systems since 90 in Hungary; it was only interested in keeping people on the surface of the water, in a constant state dependency to produce its own political supply base. The loss of this is why you are in despair here in Parliament today. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties. Dr. Wind Bernadett: That's not true!]]
u2016-11-23-254	Thank you very much. We will continue with the speeches by Members. Congressman Zsolt Csenger-Zalán, Fidesz. Here you go.
u2016-11-23-255	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. In 2010, at my first meeting hours, but I would add that later as starting and practicing mayor of Zsámbék, who had contacted me at the time, they were all looking for jobs, jobs and jobs. This was obviously the biggest problem at the time, and therefore the purpose of the Orbán government was a work-based society, a programme of work, instead of an aid. We have created a million jobs in ten years, this is what we have undertaken, and this has been a commitment, a solution that, for example, Mrs Bernadett Szél said here that this whole debate was initiated to hear such solutions. [[21.30]] Well, you've heard countless such solutions in the last six years. On the opposition side, the answer has always been that it's polish, an empty slogan. [[Zoltán Haughty: Because it is!]] The Socialists' mentor at the time said that we were accused of being Laripharian, in other words, illusions. Well, what about this one? Since then, it has been proven that the growth of the economy is 2-3 percent per year. It's not an illusion, ladies and gentlemen, it's a fact. Inflation has become virtually zero, yet again it is not an illusion, but a fact. The budget deficit fell below 3 percent a year, it's not an illusion, it's a fact. Similarly, the reduction of public debt, this is not an illusion, but a fact, and the unorthodox economic policy, which the LMPs called voodoo economic policy at the time, is also the results of that, facts. Today we are saying that we are doing one million jobs in a proportionate manner in ten years, that is also a fact. Real incomes are increasing and, as a result, it is now possible to increase both the minimum wage and the guaranteed minimum wage. Well, that's a fact. It should be added that, on average, this means that 4-5 thousand more people work, 4-5 thousand more people, one pair of people go to work, and this, of course, raises new problems. In particular, in our constituency, we need more and more bus services, we should concentrate on P+R parking spaces. Of course, I am aware that this is also a problem, just as it was in 2010, then work was the problem, today going to work is the problem. It's a problem, but what a difference. And speaking of 2010 here, after my colleague Márton Gyöngyösi mentioned why we are measuring ourselves to the level of 2010 when we are talking about a ruinous legacy after the Gyurcsány-Bajnai government, it is very important to say that what we are measuring ourselves to is a matter of choice. But we didn't have to measure it, but we had to fix this whole situation, and it wasn't a question of choice, it was the legacy that had to be overcome, and I think it's safe to say that we have overcome it, because instead of jobs, bus services are now the problem in the constituency. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-11-23-256	Congresswoman Anita Heringes, MSZP.
u2016-11-23-257	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear fellow Members, Thus, in the sixth hour of the debate, I often wonder what is better: whether you believe what you are saying, or whether you read these sentences only because of the political propaganda machine and their loyalty to your party. Because I think that you, a large part of whom are individual representatives, can often meet voters when they hold reception hours. [[Zsolt Csenger-Zalán: That's right!]] That is not the picture you can see there, my fellow Members, only in the event that only their own party members go to their host hours. 'Cause when you're in the market, you're not in the mood, you're not in the mood, you're in the mood, you're not in the mood. I hold a host hour in many settlements, in all kinds of settlements, from the city to the village, on one side of the Danube and on the other side of the Danube. From now on, I think that I can really feel what the mood is, what people are saying, and how they feel today. If you claim that most of the young people have gone abroad as we have heard from you, this is the first sentence that can be disproved immediately, because most of these young people have really left this country because they want to make a living from what they are looking for. Most of the young people really left because they didn't see their future and opportunities in this country. He didn't see what he was going to raise a child with, he didn't see what he was going to buy a house with, he didn't see how he was going to pay for his foreign exchange loan, and he didn't see how he was going to buy a car to go to work. In fact, he wasn't even sure he'd have a job. Young people out of college and college, young people out of vocational training, couldn't see their future in this country. Ladies and gentlemen, Let us agree that a young mother, a young father, whose child is born abroad, will begin to go to kindergarten and school there is little chance of her coming home. [[Zoltán Grimlock: He's not coming home!]] Unfortunately, we really need to feel sorry for the parents, grandparents, who see their grandchildren grow up from a distance through skype. I think that this is truly outrageous, and if you have a host hour and walk around the country, you will meet with this in many cases, my fellow Members, and unfortunately this was not a desire for freedom for them, but this was an opportunity in which they saw that they would have a future, they would have an opportunity. I find this very disappointing, and I would like it to be possible in this country for these young people to find a job that they can make a living on. Ladies and gentlemen, In the event that you say that there are people involved in community service who have been otherwise inactive, I meet a lot of young people who, as a graduate, work as public workers in the village. He works there because he couldn't work anywhere else, because there's no job in that neighborhood, they can't go to work anywhere else, and it was his only option. But raising a child from that is very difficult, my honourable fellow Members, because this is the wage that is very little for it, that under normal circumstances a person will be able to give his child what he wants. That's not good enough. When you talk to small town mayors, really deep and long, they tell you that, for example, if you start training in the public works program and, let's say, kitchen help training starts in a settlement, they can get those few people from the village population into training for three months. He works in the nursery kitchen for three months, and then he has to be discharged, because he has to come in after the next three months of training. These people do not feel that they are valued, because if someone works, if this man has learned it well and does his job well, then we should create the possibility that he can normally work there, take care of this job, get a normal wage, and then he can support his family and make a living, and not have to worry about everyday checks. I really dream of a country in Hungary where people don't have to worry about which cheques they hide, but can pay, and not think about how to proceed after the tenth day of the month. Indeed, ladies and gentlemen, in 2010, after the 20th day, they thought about how to proceed, now after the 10th day, most of the people in the country are thinking about how to go on shopping, what to buy from, or if the child has a hole in his shoe, then what we're going to buy shoes from. Ladies and gentlemen, My grandparents and my father were in the construction area, and my father still works in this area. He used to be a prestige of professional work. My dad always tells me that in a settlement called Némethér, which is in my constituency, he became a lot of people who were covered, overnight, year after year, because they saw that the local cooler was valued, well-earned, he was able to support his family and prestige the profession. Therefore, in that village, many young people were sent to be chillers. Nowadays, parents do not feel that they have prestige in this work and that they can make a living from it, but that they feel that they do not have an opportunity, so they send it to high school or send it to school. It's a big responsibility for you to create prestige for your professional work, by the way. So I think that we should give young people the knowledge that they can work with, fellow Members. Not only should the burden on employers be reduced, but the burden on workers should also be reduced. I think it would also be necessary to reduce the amount of money, but you know it, fellow Members, because it would be just then that people could bring more money home, feel that they have more money every month, make a living with more money. I think that these are steps that would be very, very important. And if they really took and really felt the lives of their own employees, then I think that the civil servant's salary has been raised since 2008, because that's how your employees and a lot of people working in public services get their wages calculated. [[21.40]] I think it's a step that should have been taken a long time ago. It is precisely about the shortage of labour that this debate is really about today, and not about political propaganda, which many of my pro-government fellow Members are very keen to say. The problem is that in many cases the lack of work and jobseekers are somehow not geographically in the same place. The biggest problem is that young people who are in an area where there is no shortage of it or there is no opportunity in that area and they are looking for a job cannot be mobile in this country. Because if you want to come up to Budapest, a young student who is a fresh graduate, you simply can't pay the rent, the BKV lease, the food, you simply can't make as much money as a career starter, and you can make a living in Budapest. Of course, the greatest pleasure would be for young people to be able to stay in their own county, but they do not have the opportunity to do so today, and unless, by the way, there is a rental or a program in which these young people can live, in which to plan a family... - because let us agree, fellow Members, if you should be planning a family now, you should have a child in a sublet, the more vulnerable situation is not today, because you can pull the ground out of one moment at a time. If either of you start looking for a single apartment with one or two children in Budapest today, it is almost impossible, because landlords are reluctant to rent these properties to single children, because they fear that it will be a search engine if you are accidentally fired, there will be nothing to pay the rent or there will be nothing to pay the rent. This is a vulnerable situation in which young people cannot be left alone, which is why, of course, they are right to create a million new jobs in ten years, and the only problem, my fellow Members, is that in London, because there will be a million young Hungarians in London in ten years if we continue to do so. Unfortunately, this is not demagogy, but these young people have studied language, graduates, intellectuals, with a profession in their hands, and will settle there. And really, if your child is born there, he will learn that language, it will be very difficult for them to come home, because there they will establish friendly relations, they will build their lives there, and after a while, my fellow Members, the grandparents will also follow them, because the opportunity will be available for the grandparents to live with them abroad. I see many opportunities in this country. But it is only possible in this country if we take it seriously that we pay attention to the countryside, if we take it seriously, that we also help people who have to make a living from their daily work; we help young people with a shortage of opportunities where they can make a living from their wages, where they can get a salary that they can make a living from for a month. I do not know if my fellow Members know that, for example, there is a shortage of gas mechanics, even in Fejér County. Only one of the most wealthy people in Hungary became a gas mechanic. The shortage may start from here, and the young people may start gassing from now on because they see the possibility. [[Defiance.]] If you start as a gasman, you can accumulate incredible wealth in a year or two or three. [[Zoltán Haughty interrupts.]] I think that it is necessary to give these people the opportunity, to listen to them in the receiving hours, to help young people get a job and to earn wages that they can make a living from month to month, and even put some aside, because the real option would be for these young people to find the opportunity in Hungary today, and not in another country. Thank you very much.
u2016-11-23-258	Thank you very much. Winner Vinnai is next, Fidesz.
u2016-11-23-259	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, On today's political debate, there's been a lot of talk, but if Anita Heringes has given me a sentimental report on who she's meeting, then let me share a close experience. I met at Nyíregyháza in the city bath - many people go there, teachers, doctors, entrepreneurs, young, retired - one of the entrepreneurs who is not fidesz, because there are many people there, I didn't talk to him very much before, he told me that you were actually doing the right thing. He works in a plastic retail, built a warehouse in the city, expanded his business, and said that it was never like this, that he had received a loan for a 1% interest rate - 0.85% to me - his overdraft was 17 percent at the time of the MSZP. What are we talking about? So much for the mood report, because we're among the people, and I'd like to say that people expect us to have a job. If there's work, there's everything. The Fidesz government in 2010 - seeing the failure left for us: in a very difficult international situation, the sovereign debt peaked, inflation was high, the deficit, the government deficit was high, perhaps they still remember János Veres, who had reached a 9.2 percent deficit in that period, yes, he was the socialist finance minister, and the employment rate was one of the lowest in the European Union, between 53 and 54 percent - in this situation a bankruptcy had to be dealt with, and by 2012, we achieved a turn in economic policy, because economic growth in Hungary was achieved, employment figures improved, public debt decreased. We are talking little about the fact that the government has consolidated the government's debt, because you have also been indebted to the municipalities to the top of their heads, and people have also been indebted. In this situation, a turn of economic policy has been achieved, and it is now possible for Hungary, as there is economic growth, to catch up in several areas, including in the area of wage increases. Ladies and gentlemen, In my brief comment, I undertook to tell you in the public sector, in the field of education and cultural life, what changes have been made, what a career programme has been launched, what wage growth has been. And I must also underline that among the first started to increase the wages of teachers. The state gave 33 billion forints more on the wages of teachers compared to 2012 in 2013, you know, when there was a large increase in wages, it spent 121 billion more, and in 2014 compared to 2013, because the wage increase was on 1 September 13th, and it continues until 1 September 2017. Overall, we spend 230 billion forints more on teachers' wages, and they deserve this money, and not only do they deserve it, but the Hungarian government and Hungarian society expect them to deliver higher performances for increasing wages, because education is important and competitive knowledge is important. It is important what we teach and how we teach, it is important that Hungarian students who will enter the labour market, what skills, what skills, what knowledge they have. Therefore, I do not really understand what Nándor Gúr said that the vocational training system has been destroyed. Well, we've just restored it, we've just renewed it, we just want the number of skilled workers to increase, and we want to have skills that may be reduced by the skills it needs for the labour market - I don't know if you know that there is such a material, that we want to bring education together with the needs of the labour market. Of course, this is not an easy task, because it is said that perhaps the United States employment office has shown that we do not even know what professions are needed, two thirds of students may be working in areas we do not even think about in a few years. So this is a very important thing that we are trying to transform the vocational training system. But back to the wage increase, the wage increase in the education system - because the government started a career model in the public sector, a rating system, a continuous increase - let me give you a personal example, since Anita Heringes gave such a personal example. My wife is a teacher, she teaches in a two-teach primary school, and you may understand that in 2013, before the wage increase, her gross salary was about HUF 200,000 after 28 years of teaching. [[21.50]] Three years have passed, so he has been teaching for 31 years, there is also a three-year mandatory step forward, and now his net salary is HUF 205 thousand. That's easy to calculate. So, before that, his gross salary was the same as his net salary now, and that's a basic wage in a primary school. I think most teachers know and understand that. Allow me to speak briefly about the cultural area, because it must be said honestly that workers in the cultural field have been disadvantaged in recent years compared to other civil servants. Here I could talk about the wage increase in the health sector, as doctors are also in the status of civil servants, I have already told you about teachers, but in the cultural area there are about 20,000 people working in Hungary in public institutions, municipalities or church or civil society organisations. About 20,000 people are affected by the cultural allowance, which was announced this summer by the Secretary of State of Culture. This means that in 2017 there will be an average wage increase of 15 percent, which of course takes into account qualifications and takes into account the time spent on the field. Thus, in the public sector, in public education and - another parentheses note - in higher education, there will be a 27 percent wage increase for three years, which is 15 percent from 1 January 2016. Of course, higher education workers also deserve this money, as it means innovation, scientific research and the quality of higher education in Hungary, so that we can keep the teaching staff. To sum up, I can say that we have done a great deal to ensure that Hungary also catches up on wages and is on a rising economic path. You know, in Szabolcs-Szatmár-Bereg County, there's a saying, especially in the Szatmár district, that you can talk lying on your back. You do things, you don't do work, but you can talk on your back. In fact, he's been talking nonsense, as we've heard from Wind Bernadet that they've been leading the country into thin air since 2012. You said in your speech as the lead speaker that the Fidesz government is leading this country to nothing. This comes here, and I think these actions prove that we're on the right track, and we're gonna keep going here. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-11-23-260	Thank you very much. The representative of Jobbik, Mr Ander Balázs, is next. Here you go.
u2016-11-23-261	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, After Mr Cseresnyés's almost 40-minute introduction, I almost had a feeling that Hungarian workers have such a beautiful and beautiful future that I should not really stay here, we heard everything, everything is very nice, everything is very good. Then I remembered Churchill's saying, who said he only believed the statistics that he faked himself, so I stayed. Since Keynes, it has been known for almost a hundred years that there is a clear interaction between population and the economy. In an ageing country with a declining population, where emigration has also taken enormous measures, plus ethnic restructuring in the form that there is no normal integration, because it is also prevented in such a way that they refuse to let go of the sticky hands of certain persons as if, by the way, I were asking them to release them hanging from the Margaret Bridge, well, in such a country it is clear that talking about economic development and innovation in the long term is rather optimistic or over-optimistic, because the most dynamic layers of people will flee from here if things continue this way. While in the 1960s and 1970s Gyula Fekete, who spoke about population loss, was attacked by the Communists and later by the Liberal Nazis, we now hear voices from the Prime Minister about emigration, for example, that those who talk about it are actually just wailing. And Lajos Kósa said that it is impossible for many people to flee the country because of the terrible Hungarian living and working conditions and wage conditions and their lack of prospects. Well, I don't know, maybe he's looking at things from a different perspective. Most Hungarian workers do not have the opportunity to go to New Zealand for a Rolling Stones concert. The Hungarian Hírlap, the Hungarian Hírlap, has recently published an article on the way home, Hungarians, bye, I stepped up, as it is trendy to go abroad, now the tree is speaking, the author writes. And then it says that whoever leaves is fleeing from reality, and withdraws himself from the common burden, the emigrants are robbing the state, the economy. You have the nerve to say something like that. I don't know when, for example, you asked a Lőrinc Mészáros, a Andy Vajna, or even Rogán's fellows, who took a hundred billion forints' profit from the settlement bonds. In particular, if we look at the figures, the Hungarians who worked outside sent more than 900 billion forints home in 2014, so that they are that bad for the Hungarian economy. To make sure that these young people didn't leave out of an adventure, I wonder which one will be the pro-government representative or young secretary of state who grins the most cynically about things; to whom I will give the full pacsameta - letters sent to me by voters, Hungarian people and young people about why they left the country. It would be very instructive to listen to these, otherwise, and not just from an ivory tower or from under a glass dome to view the Hungarian nugget, which is often much sadder than we have heard from my fellow members here who are pro-government. I had an idea, says Esther, what kind of life I'd like to live. No, it wasn't about luxury, it was about not having to be afraid of whether I could pay my bills in time, if I could ever move away from my parents. I've been planning a single, careless life. In the first one, I traveled home almost on the second weekend, spent all my vacations at home with my parents, and that's when I found out what it was like to be homesick, what a great treasure my mother cooked, that they were waiting for me to come home, that without my friends, money was worthless. I felt homeless. Then he goes on to start a family here, in February our baby will arrive, who will become an Austrian citizen, as his father is Austrian. I didn't plan this either, I wanted to have a Hungarian husband on Hungarian soil, but fate didn't bring him that way. I don't mind living a life I've always wanted, something I probably wouldn't have achieved at home. I don't even think about going home anymore, which doesn't mean I don't love my country. Many times I think of Hungarica's I was born here, changing hearts who change their homeland. I'll always be a foreigner, an immigrant, a refugee, missing my mother tongue, my parents, Barcs. Then a young educator lady. I'm a teacher, I made 125,000 forints at home, and if I paid for everything and bought food, it's all gone. While my partner was working at home, I didn't see her, like, four or five days a week for two or four days. So before we were completely in debt, my partner took a job out here. I wouldn't have been extended because I refused to make a portfolio, and we moved out with him about a year later. Then we had another child, then another child, so it's all round, and last but not least, my partner works, I can't, we can make a living on a salary, not as big as the ones at home, but in the middle of the month, I don't have to think about buying bread, diapers or chocolate for the kids. That's pretty comforting. Then Sultana. I'm tired of struggling and - I'm sorry - I want to build a castle out of fecals. Maybe it's just really stinking. I want a family and a child, and even though I have all the respect my parents have for raising us with honor, I'm not giving up food to feed my child if I don't have to. I had to leave my home, my country, my family and everyone. It's not a life I live on a foreign land, that I'm a dog of another country, and other people wipe their feet in me, but that fucking money is the lord. I made 72,000 forints a month at home, worked six days a week on paper for six and a half hours, in reality eight or more hours. At my current job, I work five days a week nine hours a week. And he continues to see the conditions he faced out there, 1,200 kilometers from his home. I'm sure there's a huge price to pay for this money. The rest of it, I can't quote what it's like for everyone who says it's an adventure. Renáta writes: I came to Germany because of the financial situation, not only to work, but to live. I've found my calculations to the fullest extent. I was planning on moving home at the same time, but I haven't for a while. There is more than a financial reason for this. Employees are very different to people. When I found out I was having a baby last year, I wasn't fired, but my boss banned me from work, sent me home, and I got paid every month until the birth. [[22.00]] I've been working again ever since. If I were to move back home, I would not only have to make a significant increase in salaries, but also support families with children. I can buy the 7 euro diaper from the 190 euro family allowance here easier than the 5 000 out of 12,000 forints at home. If my child is sick, his prescription is free, but I bought him a feverkill for a dollar without a prescription. I couldn't compare health differences. My fellow members of the Government! That's what we keep talking about. For example, reducing the VAT on articles needed to have children, which would be essential. And it could really, really be classified for a very, very long time. As we have noticed, writes Gábor, the value of the forint is below the frog's ass, almost everything at home is as expensive as out here, only I earn seven times as much, and my wife earns four times as much as in Hungary before. Zsolt writes: Technically, this salary is the only way to get lost. I've worked in four countries, I've been able to save my salary everywhere, not at home alone, no matter how much I want a family, an apartment, and all that. It's just not feasible. In Győr, a 50 square meter apartment is 15 million forints, which is... I've always come home because of my love, my family, but now I'm on my way out to visit, at most. I can't even afford it. - Because it was always announced on minimum wage. So, unfortunately, I have to say, you can only die at home, and the misery we're in, it's hard to keep to a level, but sometimes it doesn't work either. It's sad, but I'm thinking about leaving my little country with a family for good, to have something. She talks about Julianna's adult daughter's calvary, and how she found her calculations in England after all. Alexandra: I'll write so much down, she says, that I cleaned a hotel at the beginning. By the way, I loved and had several Hungarian colleagues, there were others who had three, yes, three degrees. She was a teacher in Hungary, but she did come out here to clean the toilet, because she did not just want to eat and drink, but she wanted more, for example, a house. Yeah, and he wanted an extra one to go on vacation once a year. You couldn't do that at home, could you? Indeed, they are huge luxury things that the Hungarian worker would wish for in general. But, fellow Members, what I really want to talk about is the situation in rural Hungary. For rural Hungary in small is what it is today... - in a few decades' time, because we cannot wait for the 10-20 or 30 years that my fellow Member Czomba was talking about here, that by then it might be as if we could lure these young people home, because by then everything will be ruined. Just think of the world of small settlements under a thousand, the 1,800 villages, which, by the way, covers about 7.5 percent of the country's population, lying at 27,000 square kilometres. So what is happening here, in these settlements, is waiting for the country. And what was that again? You have really outlined a wonderful vision for these small settlements in the programme "National Development 2030," but the fact is that it has not become anything. For these settlements, apart from, say, some of the most fortunate settlements in the resort areas, or small settlements near a larger city, where there is a supply of work or regular transport, are in poverty. They feel as if they are drowned without a lifeline by history, by fate, and they can safely be said that they are completely dominated by small village syndrome. The feeling of falling out of the world has almost become irreversible. The state's out of here. We can also talk about the destruction of the village, for example, the closure of the school. Yeah, that's what happened in my constituency, even though I know I'm not an individual congressman. The individual congressman was supposed to campaign next to the school in Vízvár. Well, this has happened, and indeed it is happening now, not only in the time of the socialists, it is a pity to point it out. So the mutilated social structure that is characteristic of these small settlements, and obviously even before the change of regime, will be further destroyed, further weakened, and the links between them will become even weaker, and the future of this 27,000 square kilometers, these 1800 settlements, my honourable members of the government, will indeed be sealed. There is no investment, the state institutional system is out of here, we can witness spontaneous segregation in many cases, because, as I said at the beginning, integration is very, very bumpy. And you can also see whose fault it was that severe tens and hundreds of billions came here. Obviously, it's a multi-directional responsibility, yours, too. Yours, my honourable pro-government colleagues, who are partners, let's say, with what has been going on in the National Roma Municipality, could be going on or still going on. So the wrecked social existence that we can encounter in these small settlements will be permanent, and it will not only create problems, but it will already create problems that will be very, very difficult to deal with. You could say it's a permanent bond to the clot of poverty here. They said here that people aren't cell phones. Of course people aren't mobile. In many cases they are not mobile because they cannot do this either financially or mentally, and society has fallen to such a level here. In addition, the demographic potential has been completely weakened, this age tree has collapsed, which is typical of the Hungarian countryside, so there will be no developmental potential, no perspective in these settlements; especially in the light of the lack of rural and population-reserving agricultural policy, which I am sure my excellent colleague, Zoltán Magyar will talk about. The reality for Hungary of the countryside is that they are their existence for major politics, the existence of these small settlements is nothing more than simple mathematics. It has been made up, and it has not only begun, it has not started in 2010, that only 7.5 percent of society lives here, and a significant part of it is old, untrained, gypsy, and could be added to what needs to be dealt with. Let's write them down. However, with this, honourable Members, they also describe 30% of Hungary. What's waiting for the rest of it? This plague, this decay will only spread, and believe me, I'm not talking to the blind. You'll have to come to, say, a miserable region like that, I'll do it, South Somogy. We need to look around the small settlements to see if there is a recovery, whether there is a job, what this government has done in six years. Obviously, there was a good basis for this, for what to build, eight years. I'm sure I won't have that taken away, and you're absolutely right about that. But six years have passed, my fellow members of the Government. The Hungarian countryside should be saved because it is meant for much more. If environmentalists can shed tears, for example, because of an endangered animal species or plant species, such as when the locator station in Mecsek put the Banat bass rose in danger, which I am very sorry for, then it would also be possible to shed tears for these Hungarian small settlements, the Árpád-era or even more ancient Hungarian settlements, for which the bell does not ring much. Thank you very much for your attention. [[It's a rare applause in the ranks of the Jobbik.]]
u2016-11-23-262	Thank you very much. Congressman Sándor Bodó, representative of Fidesz, please.
u2016-11-23-263	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, The title of the debate is indeed the causes of labour shortages and the necessary steps. At first sight, perhaps we could say that a few years ago we would have been very surprised and that few of us would have thought that we should have discussed this here in the House of the country. But we have to, because the Hungarian society is talking about it, and as my fellow Member Csenger-Zalan mentioned those hours, most of the people who were looking for jobs came in a few years ago, and today there are entrepreneurs who say that they are looking for labour. Of course, in the light of these, it would be a very big mistake to say that we have to deal with this issue only now and in an assessment of a moment's situation. In order to be realistic, it is essential that we look back a little bit over the past period and look at some sort of foresight in our work. Knowledge of the history, as I mentioned, is extremely important, and there are obviously many of the various aspects that could give rise to this situation, but it is certainly appropriate to talk about it in terms of the situation in the labour market, the nature of the training, the diversity of social, natural characteristics, individual skills and remuneration. It is certainly a fact that today's young people, but perhaps the whole of today's mankind, are much more mobile than before, so obviously we cannot blame and do nothing. [[22.10]] There are also completely new professions, which can actually be said to be marketable anywhere in Europe at any time. It's obviously another huge temptation. The positive effect in the school system is that more people have chosen higher education, at some level, it has borne the fact that there have been fewer skilled workers, less people have studied certain professions that my fellow Member has just spoken about. And there are significant differences at national level, for example, in our constituency, Hajdúszoboszló, the profession sought is quite different from, say, its surroundings, not far from it, in an agricultural settlement. Others are individual skills, young people go to school for several years, and, then, to one of the most important aspects, there are indeed other remuneration requirements. Everyone expects money for their work, as much income as possible, and in this more income, this more income is what they expect to get well, so we must definitely see concrete figures as to how and how we have progressed in this area. The first is the development of the number of people living in poverty. I think it is an absolute correct definition, since 3.1 million people lived in poverty in 2012 and 2.5 million in 2014. I stress that this is a lot too. The decline is relatively simple mathematics, 663,000 people, which is a very significant number. Of course, the statistics take into account a set of European-wide aspects for classification, and I think that it does not go into detail, but it must be credible for all of us. The next aspect of remuneration is the evolution of the minimum wage, since the minimum wage has increased by 51 percent in the past period, by HUF 31 500 in the six years, by HUF 73 500 in 2010 and by HUF 111 thousand in 2016. And the fact of the day, we have heard today that the increase and the increase will continue. There is also concrete data on the evolution of the average annual net national income, and I have to say that there is a steady increase here, from 2010 to 2016. I stress continuity, the trend, this wage increase is not campaign-like, it is not for an election period, but the performance of the Hungarian economy is the border. This is what has happened in Hungary since 2010, and obviously the efforts of both the government and the labour market partners must be recognised here. This trend is clearly forward-looking, so we must, of course, see what needs to be done in the future, as we must continue to pay close attention to the development of an entrepreneur-friendly environment, and I think, therefore, that we should continue to pay particular attention to value-creating public work as a complement to this. Perhaps our fellow Member Volner mentioned that he had unpleasant experiences. With your permission, in consultation with Congressman Tiba, we welcome you to visit Hajdú-Bihar County, where we can really introduce you and perhaps your colleagues to value-building community service. Within the economy of the European Union there is a great deal of competition for good labour, and the Hungarian workforce is a good workforce and a well-prepared workforce. Obviously, in these circumstances, government policy must also make the right decisions. Obviously, a flexible, day-to-day approach is needed, and I think that this is certainly forward-looking. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2016-11-23-264	Thank you very much. Congresswoman Bernadett Wind, LMP. Here.
u2016-11-23-265	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State for Government, Lords! The fact is that the LMP faction is starting to talk about the last 4 minutes left, because unfortunately, parliamentary debates are held in the Hungarian Parliament in such a way that we have time limits, and the LMP faction has not yet had 50 minutes to express its views, so obviously, the more strongly represented factions have more time-related minutes. So whatever they're gonna lie about LMP in the next period, I'm not gonna be able to respond to it like they already have. However, I would like to say one thing: if they really considered the shortage of labour and the wage crisis behind it so important, we should not have put this very important parliamentary debate on the 9th agenda, but, let us say, this should have started the day, and then Members would not be sitting here at 10:15 p.m. and talking to each other about Hungary's most important problem, but, let us say, at a time when voters are awake and watching Parliament's work. So I ask you to stop doing this with the start of important parliamentary debates, not hide them overnight, come out to the light of these debates, and come out to the light, and let voters know exactly what Members think about important problems in their lives. The May Other has initiated this parliamentary debate day because we believe that there is simply no more serious problem in Hungary than the labour shortage and the wage crisis behind it. Moreover, we also see that this is a symptom, a symptom that things are going very badly in Hungary, a veterinary horse actually shows everything, economic policy is bad, tax policy is bad and employment policy is bad. The combination of this brings together the fact that people from Hungary go abroad and earn a living there and earn a job there. I think that the growing shortage of labour speaks for itself and issues the certificate of the government, and as an evaluation of Parliament's debate day, I must say that I cannot accept the fidesz self-image that has been carried out here in the past period, in which, of course, the KDNP has always come to their aid; which was about how great it is that we are talking here not about unemployment, but about labour shortages. The wage crisis behind it is a situation that you cannot turn a blind eye to. And what they've put on the table so far is sweet. You should have talked in the last 6-7 hours about how you want to work on it and what you are doing to ensure that Hungarian people's wages are settled, how radical wage increases will be possible in this country. And yes, if they had done that, they would have had to tell us that the community service program had failed as such. The May Other Politics has discovered that public work is a trap for the people in it, and your 2010 prognosis has not worked, that people will go back to the open labour market from public work, and that virtually a lot of public workers are doing their own civil servants and employees' work in public work for a fraction of the wage. And to this day, I am deeply outraged that this institution has still been left unchanged, and it can still happen that people are being fired from their regular jobs and end up as public workers. Just as we know precisely that one of the causes of labour shortages is public work, because it sucks the workforce away from companies and businesses, because you have so much destroyed the labour code that there are no workers' rights in this country. People can be fired, and from that point on, they won't even be taken back into community service. This isn't gonna work. You should also have mentioned that virtually everyone who earns under average wage with a single-key tax system is being sabotaged. You have continued to believe in a completely failed one-key philosophy. I think that in the last few hours you have been speaking more than sincerely, not about Hungarian citizens, but about the usual fidesz self-foming that you have always done for six years. Thank you.
u2016-11-23-266	Thank you very much. We will continue the debate day with two minutes' speeches. Congressman Márton Gyöngyösi, Jobbik!
u2016-11-23-267	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Thanks to the house rules, I respond with some phase delay to the suggestion of János Pócs, who defended the job creation programs that I criticized, and the economic policy that brought Hungary here, and the example he made of Jászság, his own constituency. I believe that this economic policy cannot be protected; this is simply defenceable; this economic policy, which has been about the fact that Hungarian governments in Hungary have filled various large multinational companies with state support and job creation money rather than giving benefits to small and medium-sized enterprises. I cannot give a concrete example of Jászság for the sake of my fellow Member János Pócs, but this autumn there was a case where a large American electronic manufacturing company established in Hungary, Jabil Circuit Magyarország Kft. announced that he would be leaving 600 employees if he closed his plant in Tiszaújváros, because he realized that the wages in Ukraine were even lower and that the conditions were even more favourable and that he was leaving our little country. [[22.20]] After being present since 2000, social governments stuffed it with state aid, the Fidesz government continued this practice, in 2011, giving this company HUF 6 billion in job creation support, and then throwing another HUF 1.2 billion in EU funding at this company, this company has now announced that it is leaving our country. Don't get me wrong, I didn't speak against multinational capital. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] or we speak out, but against the conditions created by the Hungarian governments and against the vulnerable situation created by Hungarian economic policy in this country. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2016-11-23-268	Congressman Nándor Gúr, two minutes, MSZP!
u2016-11-23-269	Mr. President, thank you very much. I would like to draw attention to two simple things, to the attention of all my fellow Members who use sentences that are 650 thousand more people working in Hungary today than... They are talking about a net lie. [[It's an interrogation from the ruling parties.]] Not in Hungary! The records of the Central Statistical Office show these figures, but that does not mean that they are in Hungary. You know, out of the 650,000 you said, 140,000 people in London, Austria, do their work elsewhere, and it's in the Hungarian statistical register as if they were working at home, but they don't work in Hungary; they work there rather because they didn't create a decent livelihood for them at home. This is one of the things that should be considered, even because Secretary Csepreghy has a good heart for using that sentence, and it is not correct. The other thing he's saying is that it's a matter of public employment. Once again, I would like to tell him, if not now, that in 2010 the public-employed people took over 60 200 HUF, then came Marcell Zsiga and many of you with their HUF 47,000, today they earn HUF 52,000 net, which, according to the 2010 conversions, is worth approximately HUF 42,000 - this is what you gave to the public workers. Last thought: unfortunately, Csenger-Zalán is not here. [[Péter Cseresnyés: Zsolt!]] who talked about how important it is... - important, but you promised to create a million jobs in the economy. No, there is nothing in that sense, because, unfortunately, it can be combined numerically, that the foreigner, that the public benefit, that the 200,000 people of student employment, who had not previously been in the statistics, if they were taken away, then there is no employment surplus - unfortunately, I wish there were! Now, that should create a condition for you. Thank you very much.
u2016-11-23-270	Thank you very much, Congressman. We will now return to the speakers who have been announced. Congressman Attila Szabolcs, representative of Fidesz, please.
u2016-11-23-271	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr. Secretary of State! Dear House, Several people have already expressed their views on the reason for the reduction in the workforce reserve in today's debate. I would like to talk today about how cutting red tape can help to alleviate the problem. Today, Hungary has 4 million 300 thousand employees, of which more than 1 million are public and municipal employees, 855 800 are public employees, and about 200,000 are employed in public companies, i.e. about 25 percent of all employees. This ratio is 10-12 percent in Germany, 10-15 percent in Slovakia, and 13-some percent in Poland. In the long term, it is not sustainable that such a large proportion of employees work in the public sector and not within the framework of the market. Thanks to God and the government's powerful measures, the country's economic situation can now allow this ratio to change. Of course, the public sector has branches where increases in numbers are justified, for example in the police and the military, and it is not necessary to save money in the fields of health and education. But there's a big area here: bureaucracy. Many measures have already been taken in these areas, which makes daily life easier for citizens. By increasing the number of government windows, more and more of our countrymen are able to do their business in one place, while so far we have had to visit different offices for every administration, or at least different administrators, and now we are spending 190 billion HUF on electronicizing state-run cases, and from 2018 we will be able to take care of home, the government will merge and perhaps terminate backup institutions. These measures all imply that there is no need for so many officials in the apparatus, so that a significant number of workers are released. The task is to be able to get a job in the public sector as soon as possible under market conditions. In order to facilitate this, the programme "Career Bridge" was created, which is to say that the employer, who is not a budgetary body, receives tax relief and support if he employs a person who has left the public sector, and may also require wage support from the employment departments of the district offices. Of course, this is a start, and we need to look for further opportunities, even through training, so that we can prevent the negative effects of measures on the labour market. Reducing red tape is only a small part of solving labour management problems, but it is a very important part of the economy. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-11-23-272	Thank you very much. I would also like to inform the Honourable Parliament that the House Rule is 37. The time available to KDNP pursuant to paragraph 2 (c) [[Dr. Wind Bernadett:]] The time available for KDNP under paragraph (c) (Dr. Wind Bernadett: Na! ) may be used by members of the government, but only by members of the government. We are now continuing our work with pre-notified speakers. Mr László Teleki, representative of the MSZP.
u2016-11-23-273	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear Parliament, We are discussing an important topic today, on which I think that all Members should be here, including, of course, Flórian Farkas, who is the representative of the government, and I think again that employment, education, should be the two areas that he should be represented in, especially because the programme for work has collapsed in recent years, and that the programme that he has received in employment through the government should also respond to how it ended. Because at a time when we are talking about this, you can see that things have not been implemented, which, by the way, were very much expected either by the Roma population or by the majority of society, and that Flórian Farkas could buy himself a large slice because HUF 1.6 billion was missing for Roma employment, and no one asked for it. But I do not want to deal with this; I would just like to draw the attention of the pro-government Members to the fact that I do not know how they can afford that a fellow Member who represents such a matter within the government and within Parliament does not say why he is not here. So, I think that within the Hungarian Socialist Party, I couldn't do that, that the area that belongs to me shouldn't be there, and we shouldn't negotiate about it, and we shouldn't try to argue with arguments about what happened within the government. He can do this, and I am sorry, because this will not expand the problem of the governing party, but the situation of the Roma in Hungary will not get anywhere. I think that today there has been a lot of statistics for the person who sat through this close to six and a half hours. For my part, I would like to give you some data to detect, because many times, either in Parliament or outside Parliament, we hear that the Roma do not want to work. Not crying back to the period before the change of regime, but it must be mentioned that when we talk about the period before the change of regime, about 95 percent of Roma were active earners; once again, they worked actively, worked at the railway, worked in the construction, agriculture, road construction, mines, and could be classified. My age definitely knows what I'm talking about, and you know that every mile of road was full of Roma, there wasn't a kilo of coal where the Roma's manual work wouldn't have been there, and what they were involved in. So if someone today says they're freeloaders and they don't want to work, then we have to look at the essence of both solutions, why not. [[22.30]] It is important to examine whether they really want to work or do not want to work, or whether they have not received the opportunities they should have received in the last 25 to 30 years. Let me give you a few more numbers besides 90 percent. Seventy percent graduated from eight classes of primary school before the regime change, 30 percent became skilled workers and graduated from vocational school. Thirty percent, once again, is a very important number. Two percent graduated. It is true that higher education could not be measured. Today, on the other hand, if we look at the statistics and put them together, we can say that the employment situation of the Roma in Hungary: 70 percent do not work from the active Roma community. Again, 70 percent don't work. I think this is certainly a sign that something is very wrong, because 90 percent of them were able to work when the regime changed, and 70 percent of them today are not working for the Roma in Hungary. I'm not saying that. I'm drawing it from the data of the Central Statistical Office. I would add that 40 percent of the non-Roma population are those who do not work and do not work. This is even worse for men, more than 71 percent cannot work, and 58 percent for women within that particular 65%. So it also shows that something is very wrong, because when we talk about the employment of the Roma, we do not see the set of facts on which they could leave. It's true that your statistics, which you tell me a lot of times, are very difficult to argue with, and the only reason you can argue with them is because they're cosmetic. At a time when it comes to employment, you include public employment, which is not a problem, it is very important that public employment is also a work that provides an opportunity for those who have not yet seen jobs to be able to integrate into the world of work. This is a very important approach and an important direction, without which it would be very difficult to reintegrate the Roma population into employment. So I think it's important. However, they also need to know that 45 percent of those who are in public employment of this particular 65%. So this means that almost 20 percent of the total Roma community is able to act either in the competitive sphere or as a private entrepreneur. So that means nothing. And that these figures, that I have said, of course, must be added to why they are developing not only in your period of governance, but also since the regime change, there has been a process, which is definitely important to mention, I think, because then they do not say that I am trying to approach things with political bias. This means in Hungarian that, after the change of regime, they did not play any role in education. I find it difficult to argue with Mr Cseresnyés State Secretary today because, as mayor of Nagykanizsa, he helped in Roma education, so he knows what it is, I hope, because where they tried to give, something happened. Things have happened where employment is not such a problem as in other parts of the country. Therefore, I think that if he knew what he was doing as mayor, then I very much hope that he will also give the government a direction and a handshake to help increase the employment opportunities of Roma in Hungary. If, on the other hand, they go further in the direction of not investing in education, I must say that there is a very big problem. A number of research has come out in recent years, and the main research material that could be read from one of the European Commission is that the exclusion of Roma in Hungary has become systemic. Do you know what that means? This means not only that in employment, but that which I have talked about many times in Parliament, outside Parliament, that you are trying to steal the future of the Roma. They want to steal it at a level that doesn't invest enough energy and weight in education. I am saying this because the Travel to the Graduate programme can classify nearly 2,000 students today, which means that this is a nice number then, if we do not look at the MSZP administration, as you say many times, that we gave a scholarship to 22 800 people, young people, to the Hungarian Gypsies Public Foundation. Again, 22 800 young people. These were mostly graduates or graduate students and higher education institutions. So you can come up with very nice slogans here, but I think you can't see anything in trying to build on broad layers. You have also created Roma schools, it sounds very good, but you do not see any results there, which would give Roma young people a chance to graduate from a college or a university, or they will be able to work with that degree afterwards. Today, I was telling a secretary of state that two or three graduates are out on the street, who came to me today, asking why we speak more languages, why we can't get a job in this and that ministry, because they're calling us in for a hearing, and then they're rejecting us because they say we're full. And I need to ask the government members to talk to him, see if the Roma youth who speaks two languages can get a job. Believe me, this not only appears in this situation, but also in the countryside during reception hours, although they did not graduate from college or university, but still skilled workers come in the same way and ask for help to try to find a place. Of course, they are right that many times there is no labour. They don't have a job because they don't announce these people. And more and more people realized that they didn't want to go to work for 5 to 6,000 forints a day, but their social security and health care aren't paid. They say that's why they won't go to work. So there really is such a trend, but you have to stop this trend with the measure of giving young people a chance in education and who have already learned a profession or a degree, and for those who are starting a program that the Hungarian Socialist Party has also launched. Let us be honest that at the time we announced that 100 Roma graduates were present in public administration, in public administration, and in all ministries the Roma young people who obtained a diploma were present. You can see from the statistics that it really happened, and what I'm saying is literally true. So, in 3-4 years, when you were on the government, either from the county labour centres or from the ministries, these Roma young people were ejected, and today they are out on the street, and they are unable to get a job. As a result, I think that their employment situation is a major problem even for those with a higher education degree. So I do not think that the word gypsy in this Parliament, except for my better fellow Member, has been said once in the nearly seven-hour debate today in Parliament, and Tamás László has done what I thank you for from here, there is no one here talking about Roma public employment, who said that it is a process of returning them to the labour market. I agree with him. I'm in this Parliament for the third term. On such a day of debate, we have never talked about the situation of the Roma. Everyone said that a lot of people were talking about how individual representatives could campaign and how they could face their constituents when they went out to campaign in 2018 and they would address the Roma as well. I cannot get to everyone to say that today, when we talked about employment, there was only one person who said what he thought about the Roma and no one else. However, I am sure that everyone who is going to run in an independent district within 106 districts of Fidesen will tell you how much they want to help the employment of the Roma. This is the biggest problem, that the Roma who are sitting on the bench today are always deceived. So, if you want the Gypsies in Hungary not to be a foreign body of this country, then you should be able to do so, so that they can become a part of the nation and work, learn, and do not try to stand at the window for aid altogether, because when you introduced it and I look at the Secretary of State for Education, I say that you would have an obligation to indicate on your own initiative on the basis of the numbers that you cannot afford to reduce the obligation to study from 18 to 16 years, because you also have a KSH data on how many people have been released from the school board at the age of 16. What does that mean? It means that we produce and produce poverty, and we do not want to solve the higher level of education, and it is not possible to stop education in that situation at the age of 16, because once again, I am not saying these numbers, but I have used KSH data. [[22.40]] So I do not think that today in Hungary there should not be an inclusive society able to adopt the programme that you adopted in 2011 in the Presidency-in-Office of Europe, the Roma framework strategy, which contains 5 points: employment, education, housing, health, and it does not matter. I would like to remind you that none of your points have been implemented, that Wolf Florian continues to be protected in dishonour, and that the programs that have not been implemented are not his fault, not Flórian Farkas' fault, but the fault of the government and the governing parties, that they allow Flórian Farkas to do what he wants, and I think you will be asked to do. You're not sure in 2018, but history will ask you to know why you didn't do something about this thing, I'm sure you will. Therefore, I am certain that I will find deaf ears, but I say that they should not abandon the Roma in Hungary, because if they leave them alone, they will leave nearly a million people. Thank you very much.
u2016-11-23-274	Thank you very much. Secretary of State László Palkovics wishes to speak on behalf of the government.
u2016-11-23-275	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear Members, Ladies and Gentlemen, Basically, I wanted to speak to Márton Gyöngyösi, but after the other Member has stayed, I will try to share this short time. Unfortunately, Márton Gyöngyösi has left, but here we have a question that has been raised from several sides, essentially the role of multinational companies and their impact on the Hungarian economy. I don't want to start a long history review, our time is limited. I had the pleasure of finishing the university in 89, and within a few years the Hungarian industry collapsed, and we watched enough about what was happening here. A lot of us could have gone, and I didn't, and I stayed home, and it was the right decision, by the way, so I want to inspire everyone who's thinking about it to consider it as a possible alternative. Today's situation is significantly better than the late '80s, early '90s, at least from that point of view. However, I have lived through the last twenty-some years, and indeed the transformation of the Hungarian economy could have happened differently. On this, we can analyze what would have happened if there were more Hungarian capitalists, owners, and I don't know what will happen; it didn't. There is a situation that has developed, and indeed multinational companies play a major role in this, but their role is thus simplified - I think the assembly plant was said by the congresswoman - how a multinational company is not a assembly plant in Hungary today, and indeed nowhere in the world, it is necessary to look at one of these. The congressman mentioned a company in Jászfényszaru, ThyssenKrupp Presta. This is a instructive story because it could also be assembled; only because of how this company was set up, and then I will give you other examples. In 98 ThyssenKrupp appeared at the University of Technology, because there was an idea of the University of Technology, an electric steering story, and then it became that they created a company at the University of Technology, and this company became a research and development company, which they then took over with 500 development engineers. Then the results of this 500 development engineering companies will be produced in Jászfényszarun. In fact, a large proportion of multinational companies are now like this in Hungary. If you look at the same thing, say, at Bosch, but you can see, let's say, at Siemens, that we don't just talk about automotive companies, these companies are increasingly and increasingly employing research and development professionals. If you look at, and these are statistics on what it looks like, let's say, in Central and Eastern Europe, a change in the proportion of R &amp; D expenditure, in particular the company, in Hungary, is growing to the greatest extent, this is the result. The impact of multinational companies on their suppliers or Hungarian companies is another kind of effect. These companies increasingly want their suppliers here to produce something not only on the basis of the drawings they produce, but also on the basis of their ability, have the professional, have the means, have the patent coverage to produce a higher value added product. What the highech added value of the Hungarian industry looks like in Hungary, if you look at the OECD numbers, is somewhere in the first three. This is precisely the result of this industrial structure. This also means that Hungarian suppliers have the same high technical added value production. So the dark picture that appeared here is not so. It's not, and it's bound to be an opportunity, so much so that the development engineers of these companies aren't going anywhere, they're operating with 2-3 percent fluctuations, and there's a whole range of things to do with it. Here, obviously, the government supports all of this through its programmes, especially the development activities of Hungarian-owned SMEs. That's why we changed the PhD training system at the university. The 700 billion HUF mentioned here, which the government will spend on R &amp; D and innovation, a significant part of this will serve to improve the capabilities of Hungarian-owned SMEs. So I'd just like to put it in a slightly different light, that this dark picture that's painted here is not so. These companies have their own role to play. Let's not talk about how they contribute, let's say, within their CSR system, so within their corporate social responsibility system, how they contribute, let's say, to the development of their environment. Whether this is, say, dual training, which is not simple, secondary or higher education. It costs a lot of money, and by the way, they do it, and a lot of everyone else does it, besides developing their own suppliers and otherwise participating in the community's life. There are some examples, such as the mentioned G-Bil. If the congressman were here, I would tell you, but it doesn't matter what happened there, why G-Bil went to another country. There are examples that come back, say, from India and China, and bring their production to Hungary. So it's complicated. One thing is certain: these companies have their own role, and this must be used to improve our own economy, by the way. I think the government is doing everything they can. Mr Teleki's question about what this education system looks like here, including the situation of Roma and Roma students. We do not agree in this context, of course, in this context, I think it is not a coincidence, but the fact is that if we look at the programmes - and I am very happy to send them over to the Member - which are currently running in the field of education, a significant part of them, a very large part of them is about the school of disadvantaged areas. In this, the formation of the school network, access to better education alone is only HUF 90 billion. Our methodological developments, therefore, the ability of teachers to teach at a school where there are not those children who come from a family that is necessarily motivated to learn a lot, a significant part of our methodological transactions apply to this. We will train 30,000 teachers over the next two years to have it - it is called coala, it is remembered for the little bear - a methodology that has already been introduced in many schools. These are the schools that operate in Sajókaza, Balmazújváros, Zalakamar, South Somogy. It works perfectly well in these schools, it's proven. We're going to extend this now, but it's precisely because it's meant to be able to handle this situation. This is where the situation of the schools was mentioned. If eight out of a community are required to become a lower education, then there will be a lower education, which is obviously the view of the OECD on one side that they should be taken care of because they should also be able to provide high-quality training, or another solution should be chosen. That's basically what we're trying to do. It's a better time than the next five years, I don't think it's gonna be for this. And what you've mentioned is that a colleague who has a higher education degree and, by the way, hasn't been employed in the Ministry, if you'd like to send it to me, I'd be happy to talk to him, and I think we'll find a solution. No such intention, either specifically or unspoken, I don't think so. In some cases, the opposite is intent. Thank you. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-11-23-276	Thank you very much. Mr Zoltán Magyar, representative of Jobbik is next.
u2016-11-23-277	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Fellow Members! As we have listened to the debate here in the last few hours between the pro-government Members and the members of the government and my fellow left-wing Members, I have often felt that I agree with both parties, as they have criticised each other in this area, at least in recent times. I am also very sad about the need to discuss such an important matter at this late hour. I would like to say a few thoughts specifically about the shortage of labour in agriculture. I believe that this is an area that has already indicated in good time that there will be serious problems here, because the shortage of labour in agriculture is now almost 10 years old and, of course, a complex issue, because it is not just that you have screwed up on the left and right hand. privatisation, so-called change of regime. It is not just that they have conducted a rural-destructive policy, and it is not only that the poor quality negotiation of the EU accession treaty has led to the emergence of this situation...
u2016-11-23-278	Hm. Obviously, it was the late hour; it was the Member's use of the word to the dignity of Parliament! [[Defiance.]] [[Defiance.]] We understood it in terms of content (Fairness.) I'm just asking you to express this in an appropriate form. [[22.50]]
u2016-11-23-279	All right. Thank you, Mr. President. In fact, in recent times, we are talking not only about land privatisation, but also about their combined impact, which is, of course, culminating in the lack of appreciation for the Hungarian labour force, especially in terms of wages. These, as I said, have already been mentioned many times, and I would therefore rather ride over to the situation of vocational schools, because the shortage of labour in agriculture is closely linked to this issue, because, as I have concluded, there is a serious shortage of professionals in agriculture. Professional schools are able to employ fewer students, train less and less, as few are present, and so fewer are in this area, in agriculture. Here I would just mention some fresh data from last year - the development of agriculture, I think that this is already an obstacle to what we are talking about - a machine investment worth HUF 800 million has been made, and according to the data of the Hungarian Central Statistical Office, four fifths of farmers have only practical experience, and three percent have a higher education degree in agricultural mechanics. Last year, 84 thousand students took part in the vocational training and 4400 started some agricultural vocational school, but only a quarter of them took a successful exam. So when we talk about the shortage of labour in agriculture, it must be pointed out that both the quantity of students and their quality leave something to be desired, and obviously a student who does not graduate from this vocational school properly and who is unable to find a job in his profession is more likely to be in a position of not being able to do well at home in this area. We are getting such shocking data that nine out of ten farmers in agriculture have already indicated a shortage of professionals. And indeed, now we are not only talking about gardening, vineyard and livestock farming, but also a number of other sectors of agriculture that have been affected in the last few years that have not yet faced such a shortage of labour. It is no wonder that Romania and Ukraine are trying to get a job - often black - who is willing to do the same job for a much lower wage than the one in Hungary. I do not need to say what further problems this could cause in the near future. Thus, if they continue to believe that what we are hearing in communication between the walls of the House, how important it is to raise the Hungarian countryside to the government side, and that Hungarian agriculture is one of the driving forces of the domestic economy, then, please, take this problem seriously, and take steps in order to eliminate this brutal shortage of labour in the sector, because not only will there be no progress, but the workforce of less than 5 percent working in agriculture today will also decline rapidly, and we will get to the point that there will simply be no one to cultivate the land, no one to feed the animals, no one to pick the fruit when it is necessary. Therefore, this is the sector where I think we need to take these steps most urgently, pay these families a fair wage, and then we can take seriously the big ideas and government plans that we listen to here from week to week between the walls of the House. Thank you, Mr. President. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2016-11-23-280	Thank you very much. There are two-minute speeches coming up. Congresswoman Anita Heringes, MSZP!
u2016-11-23-281	Thank you very much for the floor. I am pleased to hear that there are fellow government representatives who value young people working abroad and do not think that they have left this country out of a desire for freedom or adventure, but understand and know that young people who want to work, live and raise their children fairly, even when I, once again, want to stress that they should have a place at home and that they should make a good living at home. But my fellow Members could also show respect by giving these young people the same opportunity in suffrage, because it would be fair and fair. And then young people would feel that they are truly appreciated. But today they feel that they don't even really want to call them home, because they want you to come home! The programme was something wonderful - didn't it, my honourable Members? - because out of a hundred million forints, 105 young people have been lured home, even according to your statistics. I think that these young people should be given an opportunity that is really worth coming home for, that they really see the opportunity in this country, and that they feel that they can live, that they can raise their children. And don't let them see that it's only the top 10 percent of corporate tax that's gonna get it right again, that small and medium-sized enterprises are somehow backstaged again. They should not feel that self - care is a sin here, for their private pension fund has already failed, and now they will not be able to put aside a pension or a health fund from the cafethere. I think that we should look to the future, give young people opportunities to take care of themselves, give them the same opportunity in suffrage as if they were home or, by the way, Hungarians across borders, because they need the same opportunities as everyone else. Thank you.
u2016-11-23-282	Congressman János Volner, leader of the Jobbik Group, here you go.
u2016-11-23-283	Thank you, Mr. President. I would like to reply to Secretary of State Palkovics. The piquantity of fate is that I was at a mutual acquaintance's meeting this afternoon, and he runs a big company. He appreciates Mr. Secretary of State and acknowledges his abilities. What you are talking about, Mr Secretary, is that I would like to separate Jobbik's position from that of other parties. We're not anti-multi-party, this company I've been to today, it's also an international corporation. For example, we distinguish the contribution of commercial multinationals to the common good in Hungary, say the contribution of a multinational that creates industrial culture in Hungary and employs thousands of people to the common good in Hungary. However, it is very important, Mr Secretary of State, when the government awards non-refundable subsidies based primarily on EKDs, i.e. individual government decisions, the question is whether it is good to distribute without counting, where appropriate, without looking at other circumstances, billions of taxpayers' money, such as companies established here in the German luxury industry, or there is a production support tax system, supported by Jobbik, which contains clear rules for all, helps the production sector to tax relief and thus relieve companies' burdens. I prefer predictability in this area. I am convinced that we should not be angry with the multinationals, but that the government must reconcile Hungarian interests and act in such a way that it does not have to close the gates to the multinationals, but that it must find the opportunities for cooperation with the manufacturing and industrial culture of Hungary. You're absolutely right about that, by the way. However, I think it is very important to say that this must always be done in the interests of Hungary, by representing the interests of the country well. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2016-11-23-284	Thank you. Congressman Attila Mesterházy, spoke in advance. Here you go.
u2016-11-23-285	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, It makes sense to wait for the debate, because you always get new information, right now from the Jobbik faction, that they are not anti-multi-party. However, other resolutions may be mentioned in recent years, although I think this is a good direction, since uncritical multi-anti-anti-competitiveness or blind multi-anti-anti-awareness are certainly not in the interests of the nation. A lot has been said on this day of debate, and perhaps I would like to place some emphasis on it myself. One is that, in many cases, I've heard that I've seen several times from government actors repeating the different numbers, that everything here is fantastic, everything is good, such numbers show things, and I think what the secretary of state was talking about, in many cases it's a game with numbers, and if we strip down the numbers that can actually be tuning up employment data or unemployment figures... - what am I thinking? To give just one example, if we report only those of the public workers in employment who are able to move forward after community service - about 10 percent - that would give us a different result. Or if we were to say that those who go abroad would also be excluded, since, let's say, Britain creates jobs for them, not Hungary, they would get different results again. And if we put this in a ten-year perspective, it can be said that in the last ten years, let's say, close by 2015 - not much has happened in terms of trends. So the reforms you have announced have, in a way, led to less efficiency or less results. [[23.00]] For my part, I am not one of those Members who say that community service is an unnecessary and bad thing. In my opinion, public work was a particularly good initiative, and during our government there was also an initiative, so in Hungarian: there was a similar, if not the same, but a similar programme during the period of the government at that time. I think it is important because people who are already out of work for the long term need to be brought back in some form. So I consider the public work programme to be a useful tool in general. The problem - and I think most of the criticisms may have focused on this - is that there is no transition, so there is a small proportion, there is little of public workers who can move to the real economic labour market, so to the real world of work, this is one of them. Another: there are already good examples, of course, but basically we often encounter the problem of not being specifically value-creating the work they need to do. Today, more and more employment policy professionals and economic professionals are talking about the fact that there is public work - since it has already reached such a great number, we are talking about more than 200,000 - also a kind of restrictive effect on the labour market, which I think is worth adjusting or paying attention to these things. The other one, which has certainly been mentioned several times, is that, in addition to unemployment or lack of real jobs, there is also a problem that, as many people have said here, structural unemployment has also appeared, so when there are free jobs, but there is also unemployment. So it can be seen that emigration, however much the government wants to say that it does not play a role in this, but that it plays a role or role, to which Mr. State Secretary may have pointed out that it does not meet demand everywhere, so that we are not training people that the labour market can absorb, and that there are already tangible results. Thus, investments are left behind because they do not find the appropriate skilled specialist of a wide range. Last time, it was perhaps Landrover, who chose another country, because in Hungary he could not find his calculation in this regard in the long term. So in Hungarian: there is something to be done about this situation, because although Mr. State Secretary - if I understood his words correctly earlier - said that Hungary is not a assembly plant, I think it was right to claim that, but, according to him, Hungary can still be classified as a assembly plant. Of course, it is certain that twenty other or even more companies can be mentioned, as Mr Secretary of State said, which is a good example, but it is not essentially the government's economic policy, the government's measures that many people are talking about, namely that a higher value added job would be sought by the government. Not to mention how sustainable these jobs are in the economy, because it seems that not only new investments will be created, not only new firms will be created, but jobs will be lost. We listened to Minister Mihály Varga in the Committee on Budgets, and I think that the Minister has, by the way, made a fair introduction and presentation, and, therefore, besides education, the other side, which is strongly linked to employment, is economic policy. The Minister mentioned two challenges: one is the issue of competitiveness, and the other is the question of growth and investment. He himself identified these areas by saying that there is something more for Hungary to do, because in terms of competitiveness, higher added value, productivity, efficiency gains, if we are talking about employment now, there must be some serious improvement. Indeed, Minister, there was a statement that I think is too optimistic: the debate was about whether, when we have less intensity and less resources in terms of EU resources, the economic growth and investment that companies are currently making from these sources, as the foreign capital inflow is low, to the extent that it is around 20 per cent of GDP, was even lower in previous years, which is just enough for reproduction. Therefore, if these resources fall out or if we have smaller resources at our disposal, then it is a big question how we can secure the resources and investments that are the engine of the economy, from which, of course, we hope to create sustainable jobs with higher added value. So in Hungarian: we will have another day of debate, which will be about the effectiveness of European Union funds, if I remember correctly, perhaps the next week or Monday, quite surely, perhaps it was fortunate to have the settlement in this respect that it is worth linking these two debates in this respect. So if we are talking about these issues, it is important to think long-term, and these problems are probably not going to be triggered by public work in the long term. Therefore, the goals need to be set in a slightly longer term. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2016-11-23-286	Thank you very much. On behalf of the government, Secretary of State Zsolt V. Németh has applied for a statement. Here.
u2016-11-23-287	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to reflect on Mr Zoltán Magyar's thoughts on labour shortages in the field of agriculture in a few words. First of all, let me say, Mr President, that agriculture has done well specifically in the field of employment in recent years. István Nagy, State Secretary, said that in the previous six years, employment in agriculture increased by 27.2 percent and 46 800 people. It has increased despite the fact that scientific workshops or even professional organisations have predicted at all forums and conferences that the number of people employed in agriculture is falling in the long term, much fewer people will produce the food needs of a given country, obviously in relation to technical development and even the growth of plant sizes. The Hungarian agricultural policy was effective because the size of the plant has decreased, and it has also been effective because the support system has supported the more labour-intensive sectors in a highly decorated way, or even smaller farms, which have been able to support and present more employees in a specific way. At the same time, pinning existing labour shortages on the Hungarian government alone is not fair. Obviously, Congressman goes around the world and sees, say, the Italians or the Germans, and if you look at them, there are similar problems. It is not the number of employees who point to this problem, but the agricultural workers at all, that they are not launching youth farmers by accident, because there is no farmer. This is, in fact, a sociocultural issue today, what it is like to have prestige in agriculture. Programmes are being launched across Europe to work as farmers at all, but if in Western Europe the farmer's son does not want to go to work in an economy that provides a secure livelihood with a fair support system, then why do we think that it would be attractive to do the same as an employee? And if we look around the village world, we will not ignore the aspect of where the workers of the cooperative 30 years ago have gone: they have become mobile. So whoever stayed in that settlement at the time was forced to go to work today because either the bus goes there to take it away and a higher prestige - for which we can do a lot together to make the prestige of agriculture different or work there - goes to work, or sits in his own car and does the same. So once again, in the area of agriculture, this is also a sociocultural issue as to why there is a shortage of workers. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-11-23-288	Thank you very much. Mr Teleki, representative of the MSZP, will be given a two-minute speech. Here.
u2016-11-23-289	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear Parliament, I asked for the floor in two minutes because, Mr State Secretary, thank you very much for your reaction to me, and I think that I do not want to argue, but I just want to state the facts as well. Indeed, you have invested enough money to help in education, whether I think about school programmes or other scholarships, only one thing I have raised here in Parliament many times, that it is not visible how many of these hats are of Roma origin. [[23.10]] I don't like it being taken out and listed on some level, but in the same way as Gandhi High School, if parents ask them to go there, then I don't think it's something that would suggest that it might not be an integrated form of education. Therefore, when I cried back for the Hungarian Gypsies Public Foundation, which was led by your fellow Member József Varga, it was a well-functioning system, because you could see how many people received a scholarship program in primary school, secondary school or university. Today, you cannot see this and rightly say either Jobbik or the majority of tax-paying citizens why we do not see what is and what is not being achieved from our tax-paying money. Because if you could see how many Roma people are about to graduate and how many are going to go to college or college, then believe me, people would prefer to pay taxes, because that's when they see that the amount they paid for is being put to good use. Therefore, I would argue only with you, because if we were serious about making it visible otherwise, then perhaps we should bring back that public foundation, perhaps not by the name, but in a similar form, where it could be shown how many people received, such a scholarship of Roma origin and such. Thank you very much.
u2016-11-23-290	Thank you very much. Representative Mr Nándor Gúr, MSZP.
u2016-11-23-291	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Here at the end, a small sum should be made in connection with the story. The events of the last six years have confirmed that they have pursued economic and social policies that have resulted in the unfortunate departure of 600 thousand people from this country. He couldn't find his calculation here, minimum living for himself and his family. Through many examples, from the minimum wage onwards, this can be shown through many others. For five years, the minimum wagers had less money in their hands. Last year, they get a lollipop here to see if, as a fake card player, you can lure people back to the table in connection with a prospective. 18 election. But not only the category of the fake card player, but also the category of false statistics was also shown today. For you are throwing employment numbers, and you want to integrate those numbers that are not accompanied by employment in Hungary; and which, say, six years ago, seven years ago were the same, student employment, but were not part of the statistics. So they're trying to trick people, but in that sense, they're cheating themselves. In terms of wages, there have been huge differences in the Visegrád four over the last six years, whether we are talking about minimum wage or about average earnings. There are 30-50 percent net differences in minimum wage and 20 percent difference in average wage. It's not glory, it's not result, it's negative, and it's all in the direction that it didn't stop people from leaving, it's role elsewhere, it's unfortunately strengthened it. Unfortunately, with the agreement that you are about to make tomorrow, you cannot bring back people. It may be a bit of a brake on the fact that those who intended to do so will consider whether to leave, but unfortunately, it is not a matter of the magnitude of the amounts that constitute a real brake. After all, as far as the net value of the minimum wage is concerned, this means HUF 7,000, EUR 60-70 for the guaranteed minimum wage. That's not the order of magnitude that sets the brakes. It was a necessary step, but it was a late step. This should have been done when dumping, dumping, especially young people and skilled people leaving our country began. I don't want to go to the bottom of things, but you can't go along with the fact that you've given the smallest income, minimum wage, contributions that have doubled or even represented value above. I don't want to talk too much about it, but it has to be confirmed that your gross, yes, was raised in bulk, 51 percent, your net in 22, but 17-18 percent aggregate inflation took this. In English, today they have no more money, more money for minimum wagers than they did in 2010. But this is not just a story about minimum wagers, but in that case, if you were to heed the advice that has been given here in the House today, that, for example, you would not be burdened with personal income tax, and that tax collected would not be scattered among your friends, but that you would give these resources to those people who are looking for these money every day with a drop of sweat, then it would be possible, yes, that the net minimum wage of HUF 100,000 would be in hand. I believe that the economic and social policy that you are pursuing is wrong. This lack of labour has not developed at random in Hungary. You have promised a million new jobs in the economy, but instead the situation is that you are leaving this country and then you are talking about achieving full employment without even taking into account the fact that 600 thousand people have been virtually driven away from this country. There is no substantial new job in the economy, and this is the country's biggest problem. The workers' poverty was brought to life, confirmed, increased. In a country where nearly one and a half million workers earn a minimum wage, where more than half of the workers cannot earn a minimum living per person, there are huge problems. Now a slice of it through the VKF has been moved a little bit, trying to correct their past crimes, but within the framework of OKET, i.e. the public sector, there is no positive change to what they should do so far. If they were serious about resolving labour shortages, they would obviously take concrete steps in three things, in which, by the way, the Hungarian Socialist Party, but other opposition parties, looking back over the past one or two years, submitted draft parliamentary resolutions or legislative amendments by tens. What concerns the issue of wages, which concerns a multitude of things related to training, is that they have crushed the system of adult education and I do not want to get into it in detail, and they have also carried out transformation processes in terms of vocational training that are not very fortunate. For the third time, they should ensure that people do not go to work outside the border, but are more mobile in Hungary. Obviously, there are a lot of instruments that need to be strengthened. But you don't seem to be thinking about it, and you're more concerned about the welfare of your friends and the ability of the fidesz urizing elite to exist as many and as much as possible. As a last thought, I would like to say to you that, in all respects, we should put a brake on theft, fraud, lying and create wages for decent living in the interests of working people. Mr. President, thank you very much.
u2016-11-23-292	Congressman Tibor Bana, Jobbik!
u2016-11-23-293	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, It would be necessary to raise wages, to stop migration, to reverse it, and to change the labour code, as it changed at the end of 2011 based on the votes of the Parliamentary Representatives of Fidesz and KDNP that workers had become more vulnerable than before. According to statistics, the proportion of long-term foreign workers has increased steadily over the last few years, and unfortunately, in practice we can also see that there are an increasing number of young and middle-aged people who work abroad, possibly moving there, but there is a phenomenon of commuting in my narrower country, Vas county. A lot of people go to work in Austria every day. It should also be said in this context that, unfortunately, they are doing this in a predominantly inappropriate place. [[23.20]] So the data and the information that has been provided here from the side of the secretary-general, from the government side, are not at all correct, and it should be added that when we talk about the level of unemployment, say, in Western Hungary, it is in the background that mothers, fathers, families in neighbouring countries are trying to get along, who do not find a job here in Hungary that would provide them with a decent living. I referred to the adoption and change of the Labour Code, which came into force at the beginning of 2012, which led to an increasing number of multinational companies living in Hungary with the possibility of working time, and the workers were put in a worse position than before. And there are many requests to me in receiving hours, in residential forums, in relation to the working conditions of individual companies, and we certainly have the basis for comparison a few kilometres away. Austria has a completely different attitude in these companies and companies. Unfortunately, here in our country, however, we can see that many people who have to work in such a place live from month to month cannot plan in the long term, and this even limits the possibilities of starting a family, even having a negative impact on the possibility of having more children. We have also said many times here, Jobbikók in Parliament, that we should also take meaningful steps to encourage the first child's commitment and the possibility of getting from one to two. I pointed out that many people do not work to the west of us according to their qualifications, and in many cases this is the case even for people with higher education. How could meaningful changes be made in Hungary? On the one hand, by requiring a predictable, predictable economic environment. This is what small and medium-sized enterprises, but also large companies, are used to say. When we meet within the framework of an exchange of views, they always say that the biggest problem they see is that there is an ad hoc legislative process in Parliament, and they have to face very serious changes during the year. This should stop. On the other hand, as I have already suggested, laws should be adapted in such a way that they are not antifamily and can ensure a harmonious family life. After all, Hungary's Fundamental Law is about the high value of family in Hungary. It is, of course, very appropriate that a woman and a man's marriage appear in this way in the Fundamental Law, in the Constitution, but that should also be guaranteed the right conditions, but the Code of Work makes this impossible. It is very outrageous to hear from the pro-government benches that young people and middle-aged people who try their luck elsewhere leave the country for adventure. The situation - and Balázs Ander, my fellow grouper, has highlighted this with concrete examples - is that they want to stay home, but they do not see the possibility of doing well, so they may have to move or commute abroad for a few years or longer. Prime Minister Viktor Orbán talked about it on several occasions, such as this spring on Kossuth Radio, so that he wants everyone to be at home on Sunday and that the Hungarians can spend the day with their families. Unfortunately, the situation is completely different. I would point out that with all due respect to people who have chosen a profession or profession - I am thinking here of nurses, ambulances, doctors, firefighters, policemen, catering or gas station workers - it is certainly their duty to help us on Sunday, and we must all lift our hats figuratively in front of them. Unfortunately, the change in the labour code mentioned has broadened these frameworks in such a way that hundreds of thousands of other people are in the same situation. Multis are pushing the working time limit to the top and thus making more vulnerable people who are trying to make their living either in Vas County or in other parts of the country and earn their living in such places. So this duality should be eliminated, and I have already referred to this in an interpellation - just as the Secretary of State gave me a misleading answer - that the importance of the family is reflected in the Fundamental Law and that the Code of Work is radically opposed. But speaking of multinational companies, I would like to replace what was said here from the socialist benches. Jobbik never expressed a multi-faceted position. I said today in the debate on the proposal for a regulation on research and development that, for example, at the board meeting of the Committee on European Union Affairs, the Hungarian European Business Council, in consultation with the members of the HEBC, found out that there are a lot of questions and points of discussion between us, but I have always welcomed it, and I also said at the plenary session of Parliament that they would like to have a medium- and long-term strategy available in Hungary, as predictability and planning are important for them too. There are, therefore, multinational companies whose presence we can welcome, of course, but unfortunately, there are also some, for example, in Vas County, for whom this is far less so. Thus, we must nuance what we have said and represent in this regard, as it has been in our electoral programmes. Nevertheless, we also consider it important and have always underlined the importance of putting small and medium-sized enterprises in the position, whether it be the use of EU funds or the use of research and development objectives. This has always been the focus of Jobbik's program. I would also like to bring here a current piece of information, which, unfortunately, points in the direction that Fidesz intends to deliver the country to multinational companies, because there was a vote in the European Parliament in the context of the EU-Canada Free Trade Agreement, CETA, and here Fidesz MEPs voted together with the socialist and DK politicians, and they said no to the proposal to turn to the Court of Justice of the European Union about CETA, examining that it is not in line with the EU's basic treaties. Once again, this has shown that Fidesz is saying something at home, is fighting freedom in words, but they represent something completely different in the European Parliament and international arenas. This duality is also characteristic of their economic policies and international policies. We would like to end this in 2018 with the Hungarians' authority. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2016-11-23-294	Dear Members, Dear Parliament, We have arrived to ask if anyone else would like to take the opportunity to speak within the remaining timeframe. [[There's no candidate.]] I'm gonna say no. This means that the Members' speeches are over. So I give the floor to Secretary of State Péter Cseresnyés, whose timeframe is 20 minutes, which you are not obliged to take advantage of, is just a maximum limit. Here you go.
u2016-11-23-295	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I got the signal, and I'm probably not gonna take the 20 minutes, so I'm gonna be much shorter than that. Thank you very much for the contributions and contributions from my fellow Members during today's debate. As I said at the outset, in my first speech, we brought an extremely important topic to Parliament. We anticipated that increased time would give opposition representatives the right opportunity to express their views and ideas that would help resolve the situation. I have personally been looking forward to the innovative recommendations, proposals that were worth considering, and, of course, I expected them to be formulated which would not have been irresponsible promises or expectations. We were open to this day, and we saw that we had very, very high expectations, that we had not heard too many proposals worth considering. I must say that irresponsible criticism is more than that, or an idea that was not related to the subject, and it should also be said that in some cases even splashing. I can say that we agree on this, but of course the two are not mutually exclusive. If we look at the statistical data, we see that the employment of those with higher education levels increased to the greatest extent between 2010 and 2016. The employment of graduates increased by 228 thousand and the graduates by 246 thousand, while a growth of less than 90,000 was observed among those with a maximum of eight primary education attainments. This is precisely why we have transformed vocational education and training in such a way that it is possible for both types of vocational school to acquire a degree in order that if someone wants to continue studying, be a technologist or have the opportunity to further study in higher education, they can do so. It was also said on the part of the MSZP that more labour mobility would be needed and labour mobility as an option would be good if it were available. I would like to emphasise and tell Mr Gúr that he should be informed that there has been a measure to promote labour mobility, and that there will be a significant increase in opportunities to promote labour mobility from 1 January 2017. As regards workers' hostels, the scope of these eligible costs for individual travel will increase significantly. [[23.30]] Although Mrs Bernadett Szél also spoke about finding a solution, as far as the issue of labour shortages is concerned, the LMP did not make any proposals in that regard, but only called for the abolition of a single-key tax. In the context of the single-key tax system, it should be noted that until 2010, Hungary had a tax system that encouraged the concealment of income and the livelihood of aid. The income tax system was the highest tax burden and by far the most progressive tax system in the region. In 2009, the tax wedge was more than 53 per cent of the average wage in the labour cost. I'm sure you've been listening, and I told you in the expo that tomorrow's signature , yes, according to the agreement to be signed tomorrow, and if this six-year programme is implemented in the form of the agreement, this tax wedge will fall to around 41 percent, such a reduction will occur. This tax wedge has already decreased significantly compared to 2009, as it is 48,5 percent in Hungary today. As regards the evolution of the tax burden, this is not about one-way tax policy measures, as we should just think about the job protection action introduced in 2013, which now acts as a programme, and is also a significant contribution not only to reducing unemployment but also to reducing the burden on employers. On average, the job protection action programme supports the employment of around 900 000 employees per month, and since its departure until the end of September 2016, I would like to stress once again that it reduced the burden on employers by HUF 460 billion. The employment stabilisation and strengthening effect of the programme is indicated by the fact that the employment burden of all thirds of those employed in the enterprise sector is now being reduced, as a result of this, in the context of a tax reduction. Contrary to the statements made by the opposition, the opportunities for young Hungarians to thrive in Hungary have not narrowed down, but their situation in the labour market has perhaps never shown such a positive picture. This is confirmed by the statistics that have been made several times this evening, the employment statistics. Employment of young people under 25 has increased significantly compared to 2010. From an employment rate below 20 per cent, we have an employment rate of almost 30 per cent. In the other area, which shows how important young people are to us and what results have been achieved in employment over the past period, it is that their unemployment rate has decreased from nearly 30 percent to 12.7%. Thus, their unemployment rate has decreased significantly. This has come true, among other things, with the programs I have already listed in the Expo. Within the framework of the Youth Guarantee Programme, we provide many opportunities for young people to work with the help of the mentoring programme, through training to contribute to their job-supporting wages. In addition, we have launched the summer student work programme to reduce inactivity for young people, to promote early work experience and income, which has already employed more than 26 thousand people this year during the summer period and has been implemented by 2800-2900 employers. In order for those looking for work, whether unemployed or public workers, to be able to work more easily and more effectively on the labour market, we have introduced the so-called profiling system, the customer-categorisation system, which will help us to better manage them on the labour market. The effectiveness of this may also be demonstrated by the significant decline in the unemployment rate. Once again, I would like to say that in 2010, the unemployment rate was still significantly above 10 per cent, it was 11.4-11.6 per cent, according to the latest measurement it was 4.9 per cent. They also dealt with our vocational training system and criticized it. But it must be said that the exact reason why this vocational training system had to be adapted is because labour market needs had to be better met. Where we were told that there was little human education, we were then asked to note tonight why we did not place greater emphasis on vocational training in the field. We should decide which side of the opposition they want. After consulting and working together with employers, industry and farm workers in this area, we have transformed the vocational training system by seeking their advice, with their active cooperation. That is why we put more emphasis on vocational training on vocational training. It is expected that, as it has done in Switzerland, as it has done in Germany, it will deliver its results here, in ours, in a year or two. I'm saying a year or two before someone criticizes the duration because they have to go to a vocational school for at least three years to get a professional worker's certificate or some kind of certificate. Based on the concept of vocational training adopted in 2011, the new vocational training law was adopted, the system of examination was transformed, the National Training Note was also transformed, adapted to the needs of today's age. The dual training has been extended so that as many people acquire the profession under working conditions. Two more important elements would be highlighted to better meet market needs and the possibility of re-training or the possibility of obtaining vocational training. One is the amendment and possibility that ensures that the age limit for participation in day school education has been increased from 21 to 25 years, so that you can get a job free of charge in older age. Another significant step was that the acquisition of the second qualification was also free of charge. In fact, we can make it possible for those who want to change their profession or work to gain the knowledge or profession that suits their needs in adulthood, because they see that this is how they can work more easily. The government has already paid great attention to ensuring that public employment does not distract the workforce from the competition sector, including seasonal employment. As I emphasized in my expo, we find this a temporary solution. Nándor Gúr expressed criticism, only some figures constantly question his credibility. In 2010, around 7 percent of the public employment was able to move to the primary labour market, with 14-15 percent of those who worked in the primary labour market being able to find employment on the basis of the last measurements. Among other things, this has been achieved through training, for example through customer classification, or through the use of certain incentives. Of course, this is not a boast, what I am saying now, but must be noted as part of a process, as a stage, and with the knowledge that the government is doing everything in the field of vocational training, employment and public employment to increase the number of people employed in the primary labour market, the economy and the workers, and the people working there, who are able to bring more and more money home, are making more and more of the salary they are taking home in real terms. One of the very important tools of this transfer from public employment to the primary labour market is the programme from public employment to the competition sector, which has helped to achieve that nearly 4,000 people have moved from public employment to the primary labour market. Here we use an incentive tool, a financial and monetary incentive tool, to provide those who decide to leave public employment before their contract expires, with some kind of dotation, assistance, support and incentive with this financial support. It is important, and this program is such that the placement allowance in this case is given to the individual and not to the employer, so he receives this particular money. [[23.40]] I would also like to mention a very important programme, which is a programme from European Union sources:. Here we help the hard-to-place layers and groups by providing wage support to employers in this case, or by providing training to these individuals who wish to take up employment. In addition, there are, of course, programmes where employers and companies are given the opportunity to carry out internal training, both in the large enterprise sector and in the small and medium-sized enterprises sector, precisely because there are training requirements that can be met within companies; on the one hand, because they know what knowledge employees need and, on the other hand, because they can manage and adapt it to their needs through training. I would also like to say a few words on the issue of wages. It is possible to argue with the facts, but it may not be worth discussing, because real wage growth can be detected, and it can be proved that this is the case, just to give an example that retail consumption has been increasing regularly in recent months, and it can even be said that in recent years in Hungary. This means that Hungarian workers who work on the primary labour market are bringing more and more money home. If less were taken home, what we say is not true is that real wages are constantly rising, because retail consumption should not increase. Of course, there are also other arguments and evidence that real wages are increasing, but this may be one of the brightest and more transparent evidence that real wages have increased and increased over the past period. I would also like to respond to the fact that several people here have spoken about hundreds of thousands of Hungarians' emigration, and again, regarding the credibility of Nándor Gúr's numbers, I would like to note that he has said this 600 thousand number several times this evening as well. I don't know where he got it from, but he must have hit his stomach on the ground when he slapped this number, because I'm sure he knows, if he doesn't know it, then check that according to official measurements and official data, about 300-350 thousand Hungarians are working abroad today. This is based on foreign data, so it wasn't based on KSH data, so it was 300-350 thousand people. But this is not the interesting thing, I would not like to talk about the difference in numbers between 600,000 and 350 thousand people, but about what it constantly suggests that this can only happen in such a large number, because so many people have gone from Hungary temporarily to work abroad for a longer or shorter period of time, because they are not feeling well in Hungary since 2010. Dear fellow Members, Since 1990 borders have been opened, more and more Hungarians have worked abroad, and since 2004, the accession of the European Union has opened the gates that, at least in words, you have welcomed. Now it looks like they're trying to close these gates. So not only do we have to argue with the numbers that Nándor Gúr says many times, but also with the principle, because he is trying to mislead those who listen to him. [[László Teleki: Time! Time!]] I would like to stress that, in recent times, a significant amount of... You know the clock badly, my dear fellow Member, I have 20 minutes, although I promised to finish it earlier, but if you interrupt me more often, I will fill in the 20 minutes. [[Defiance.]] I have stressed several times and I would like to reiterate now that it seems that the dynamics of this attempt, the temporary placement of Hungarian workers abroad, have been significantly reduced. This means that if I can say numbers, about 33 000 people took up work abroad last year, and about 33 000 people came back to work in Hungary. Thus, as the employment potential increases in Hungary, competition for certain labour shortages is increasing and labour demand is expected to occur in the market, and more and more of these people are expected to come home, especially if the rise in real wages, such as that which Nándor Gúr and the MSZPs do not take into account or criticize, will occur. A growing number of Hungarian workers are expected to come back, and they will come back, because most of them, as I said in one of my speeches this evening, are imagining their future here and want to come home, because in the environment where they are adults, they want to raise their own children and imagine their future there. Thank you once again for the suggestions and comments, but I would ask you not to argue with the data on the one hand, and on the other hand, to look at this past six years as a well-functioning process that has achieved significant results in employment, not in the moment, but in the trend of which we are going, because employment is constantly increasing, wages are constantly increasing. Of course, if we look at today, the huge disadvantage we have suffered in recent years and decades, it cannot be fixed from one moment to the next, not in six years, but we are doing our job to achieve the highest possible rate of catch-up and employment in its process. I ask for your help in this, as well as the help of my fellow opposition Members and my fellow Members in the pro-government benches. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-11-23-296	Thank you very much. The Secretary of State kept his word completely because he did not speak out the 20 minutes, because it took 19 minutes and 33 seconds, which is completely consistent with every statement. So we can move on. In conclusion of the political debate, the 2013 CXXII on the marketing of agricultural and forestry land for the production of vine propagating material follows. CCXII of 2013 on certain provisions and transitional arrangements related to the Law. General discussion of the bill amending the law until closure. The submission submitted by MEPs Lajos Kósa, Sándor Font and Balázs Győrffy, Fidesz T/12930. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, I give the floor to Congressman Font Sándor, the author of the item on the agenda. Here you go.
u2016-11-23-297	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, As is known, in the Land Traffic Act, propagating material producers have been placed in a more favourable position by the 2014 Law, since propagating material producers, in addition to dealing with a very manual labour-intensive area, also carry out significant export activities as a result of their production, but can only do this cultivation of propagating material in a very specific area, often isolation distances, land purity, irrigability and everything else this special agricultural activity requires. Accordingly, at the time, propagating material producers were exempted from, for example, the fact that if they wanted to make a trade in a land because they wanted to set aside or reach isolation distance in one year for the cultivated area, propagating material producers would not have to comply with the relevant system of rights of use of the Land Traffic Act, as it is a very strict and, let us say, a complicated procedure in which the owners of adjacent land may compete for the acquisition of the land offered in the event of replacement, thus crowding out propagating material producers. So we consider this system to be correct. [[23.50]] However, the Act supplementing the Land Traffic Act did not provide for the inclusion of propagating material producers producing vegetative propagating material and tuber plants, i.e. wooded and vine propagating material producers, within the scope of these propagating material producers, and this has put these propagating material producing enterprises in an uncomfortable position, since, for example, for the production of vegetative propagating material, four to six years after a maximum of two years of production activity, the land must be set aside in order to obtain clean soil quality. This also means that new land needs to be involved, and often exchanges, land use replacements, licensing of rights of use are the only options. However, since producers of vegetative propagating material were not named in this special treatment as other propagating material producers, this option was not available to them. I would like to eliminate this discrimination with this motion, so we would also like to classify the producers of vegetative propagating material in a distinguished order where the transfer of rights of use would allow them, in a much simpler and exceptional procedure, the possibility of continuously acquiring land where reproductive material can be produced in this way. I would ask my fellow Members to support this trivial proposal. Thank you very much.
u2016-11-23-298	Thank you very much. I'll ask Secretary Zsolt V. Németh if he wants to speak now. [[Zsolt V. Németh: Yes.]] Here you go.
u2016-11-23-299	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, The proposed legislation of the Members provides for the possibility for vine-school and nursery producers to benefit from land use for the purpose of growing vegetative propagating material compared to so far. On the basis of the reasons presented by Mr Font Sándor, we believe that there is a reasonable need to obtain the possibility of land use needed for one or two years in one place during production in a simpler procedure than farmers with less intensive and less specific production activities. I would like to stress that, when assessing the derogation from the rules applicable to other farmers engaged in production activities, it should be taken into account that only some 300-500 farmers are producing vineyards or fruit trees in a total area of less than a thousand hectares, producing a production value of approximately HUF 10 billion. Given the small scale of the simpler land use option for the farmers concerned, it does not adversely affect local farmers' access to land use. Thus, the proposal of Members of Parliament, Lajos Kósa and Sándor Font to amend the law seeks to solve an important issue for both the grape sector and the other vegetative reproductive material sector, so I ask for their support and vote. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2016-11-23-300	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. We now have a speaker's speech, Honourable Parliament. First up is Fidesz's lead speaker, János Pócs. Here you go.
u2016-11-23-301	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, This is a very short proposal. As the rapporteur said, the amendment is justified by the specific needs of the production of vegetative propagating material. seed tubers and fruit or grape shoots have territorial needs similar to seed production, and therefore the advantages granted by the land law to seed production should also be granted to farmers with vegetative reproductive material. The initiative is supported by the Fidesz faction, and I trust that the support attitude of my fellow opposition Members in the debate on the subject will be sustained, since the adoption of this proposal also requires a two-thirds majority because of the sound rules of the Land Traffic Act, which have been adopted by a qualified majority. I ask for the support of my fellow Members. Thank you, Mr. President.
u2016-11-23-302	Thank you very much, Congressman. Congressman Zoltán Magyar, representative and lead speaker of Jobbik, please.
u2016-11-23-303	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. As we have already said at the five-party meeting and at the committee meeting, we can support this proposal because it is technically justified and, indeed, it does not concern many producers, but they have been very seriously affected by the lack of this regulation, so we are in any case in favour of it. I am pleased that we have been given guarantees that there can be no abuse in the system, both because of the small number of people involved and because it will not happen on the basis of a statement that someone is suddenly engaged in such an activity - as we have seen in the case of eco-farmers, but some have abused this additional right at that time - so that we have now received guarantees that it cannot happen here. There will therefore be losers of the system, but it is obviously also more important here in terms of national economy that these few hundred farmers will be able to continue their quality activities in such a way. [[President Tamás Sneider, Vice-President of the National Assembly.]] I regret that we cannot remedy many of the other shortcomings and minor errors of the Land Traffic Act due to the fact that the government side is constantly hitting it with the fact that, until the infringement proceedings and judicial proceedings have ended, they are not willing to accept such opposition amendments which wish to improve the Land Traffic Act. I also regret that, in other cases, this constructive attitude, which has now been shown in this law, is not usually typical of you; I hope that this will change in the future. But, as I have already said, this amendment will be supported by Jobbik. Thank you, Mr. President.
u2016-11-23-304	Welcome back to my fellow Members. I'm asking if anyone would like to comment on the agenda. [[No one's reporting.]] I don't see a candidate. So I give the floor to Congressman Font Sándor, the author.
u2016-11-23-305	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Thank you for your support. As my fellow Members have indicated, the law is fundamental by including the producers of vegetative propagating material as one of the two-thirds of the rights governed by the Land Traffic Act, and therefore, according to the reference, we have held a five-party consultation and the factions have provided majority support there. I therefore ask that we do this also in the vote. Thank you for your support.
u2016-11-23-306	Thank you. The general debate is closed. The amendments may be submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. Ladies and gentlemen, A general debate on the draft law on the publication of the Minamata Convention on Mercury will follow until closure. Government referral T/12916. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, I give the floor to Mr Zsolt V. Németh, Secretary of State of the Ministry of Agriculture, author of the item on the agenda.
u2016-11-23-307	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, The government submitted a bill to Parliament on the publication of the Minamata Convention on Mercury in T/12916. Due to Hungary's geographical situation, it is also subject to increased exposure to global atmospheric pollution and, as a result, to the deposition of mercury. Hungary's accession to the Minamata Convention on Mercury confirms Hungary's commitment to the preservation of human health and global environmental values. The Convention provides for effective regulation against mercury emissions in the atmosphere, bans the opening of new mercury mines and provides for the gradual closure of existing ones. A number of mercury-containing products, such as compact fluorescent lamps or elements with certain parameters, plant protection products, manufacture, import and export of dental amalgam, as well as industrial processes such as the production of alkaline chlorine, are banned or restricted after a time limit set in the Convention. [[0.00]] The Convention also provides for environmentally friendly temporary storage and management of mercury-containing waste. Furthermore, a solution has been found to limit craft and small-scale gold mining with the most important source of pollution in the Convention, which does not affect Hungary, but represents a significant environmental burden at global level. In addition, the Convention identifies areas where the development of mercury-induced health harm can be mitigated. The purpose of the bill presented to the Honourable Parliament is therefore to protect the environment and human health. Dear Parliament, The Convention was signed by 128 countries, including Hungary and the European Union, until 9 October 2014, and was ratified by a total of 35 countries until 17 November 2016. I ask that, on the basis of what has been said, the amendment proposal should be discussed and then adopted. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2016-11-23-308	Now we're going to have keynote speeches. I give the floor to Congressman János Pócs.
u2016-11-23-309	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, With the adoption of this bill, we recognise that the Minamata Convention signed in October 2013 by the representation of our country also applies to Hungary with binding effect. The Convention seeks to provide countries around the world with effective regulatory tools for mercury released by human activity and released into the environment, which is harmful to health. In any case, our country's strict environmental rules provide a suitable basis for complying with the Convention. The proposal is supported by the Fidesz fraction. I would ask my fellow Members to give their support. Thank you.
u2016-11-23-310	Thank you. I now give the floor to Congressman Zoltán Magyar.
u2016-11-23-311	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Fellow Members! My colleague, Mr Lajos Kepli, owns the area, he can't be present now, and perhaps there's enough reason to say that it's past midnight and we started today at 8:00, but I would like to briefly summarise his position because he was kind enough to send it over. Jobbik supports the adoption of the Convention in domestic law. For the record, every treaty is worth as much of it as it is being observed. We are therefore also looking forward to the Government's practical measures after the entry into force of the Convention in order to reduce the environmental effects of mercury. It is difficult to imagine that mercury and other heavy metals can be properly prevented from entering the environment while the greening system is becoming weaker at home. There is also a high risk of chemical pollution from the area of abandoned chemical plants in many locations in the country. We therefore call for much more radical measures for the management of hazardous waste. That was the criticism and the comment, but as I said at the beginning, Jobbik supports the agreement. Thank you, Mr. President.
u2016-11-23-312	Thank you. I'm asking if anyone would like to comment on the bill. [[No signal.]] I don't see a candidate. The general debate is closed and I give the floor to... I don't know if Mr. Secretary would like to speak in the end. If not, it's not important, but it's up to you, Secretary of State. [[Zsolt V. Németh: No, thank you very much.]] Dear Parliament, The amendments may be submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. A general debate on the draft law amending certain laws on the removal from cultivation of properties registered as closed gardens will follow. The submission submitted by Mr Font Sándor T/12929. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. I give the floor to Congressman Font Sándor, the author of the item on the agenda.
u2016-11-23-313	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. It is a Hungarian specialty in closed gardens. When these properties were built, there was no way to know what their lives would be later. In the original intention, they were, let's say, hobbies, places at the border of the settlements, where the people who demanded this could produce their own food, produce fruit and vegetables, and perhaps build a resting house with a small hobbies. Then, as life progressed, these areas became more and more valuable, often the settlement reached the border as a result of its growth, and it became more and more complicated to see how these closed gardens could be classified. There were places where industrial parks wanted to exist, and there was a very special value increase, especially if it was in the vicinity of a touristly sensitive and busy area, or if I said the area around our large lakes, such as Lake Balaton, Fertő or Lake Venice, or even the area around Lake Tisza. However, these closed gardens are usually registered in the agricultural sector, i.e. there are vineyards, fruit, forest, meadows, pastures, and in 2014, with the entry into force of the Land Traffic Act, the change in land traffic, whether rent or change in property, is subject to significant administrative conditions, and it turns out that these relatively small-scale enclosed garden properties are not as easily to be bought-in as their owners thought it would be as if it were a cottage, and according to the real estate rules, this could be done in the case of a lawyer's countersignation, but in accordance with the rules of the Land Traffic Act, only the sale of these closed-garden properties can be made. However, as I said, it requires a special procedure, as I would if I named the 60-day minimum suspension of the contract of sale, and then the decision of the state administration, which is a lengthy process. At the same time, this cannot be about large land or land speculation, as, as I said, these are mainly smaller areas, with a much smaller proportion of real estate, for example, over 2,500 sq m, and are typically real estates below that. This inconvenience, in which the owners of these closed garden properties were deemed to be restricted to owning their own property, has already been tried to exempt them from the legislation adopted in 2015, which allowed them to be exempted from the agricultural sector registered in the land regime. This option has been used by the closed garden owners since May 2015, and around 86 000 people have lived because this transfer, this discharge, has been made. At the same time, this type of property is typically a fragmented, large number of properties, about 1 million 100 thousand registered units for closed gardens, and this means that many more of these properties should be transferred. The 2015 amendment proposed to close this simplified transfer, exemption from the agricultural register with effect from 31 December 2016, and, as I mentioned, a significant number of untransmitted closed garden properties. Therefore, the main point of the proposal is to amend the closing deadline of 31 December 2016 to 31 December 2017. That is the essence of the bill amendment proposal. At the same time, some technical amendments had to be made, such as a statement on the exemption of land protection contributions, levies and other costs, how the mountain judge's permit should be obtained in the case of a vineyard register, and how the legislation that may be adopted will also have to be taken into account for pending cases. I would ask the parliamentary parties, the factions, to support this proposal. Thank you very much.
u2016-11-23-314	I now give the floor to Secretary Zsolt V. Németh. [[0.10]]
u2016-11-23-315	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Representative Sándor Font's bill is supported by the Ministry of Agriculture, because of the following, starting with perhaps the proposal for the termination of central offices. In order to ensure the smooth implementation of the professional tasks of the Ministry of Agriculture, due to changes in the further integration of the official organisation, we consider it necessary to ensure that the Minister of Agriculture can continue to have access to those databases, such as property registration, state survey base map database, land use register, agricultural-publication, and the rest, which are managed and operated by the Government Office of Budapest, as an administrative body for surveying and spatial information, after 1 January 2017. On the second and perhaps the main issue, the Ministry's position is in favour, as the new land traffic regulation, which entered into force on 1 May 2014, provided for the application of land rules, in the case of closed gardens, including land in agriculture and forestry. However, the application of land traffic legislation has made it clear that the maintenance of land regulation is entirely unjustified in areas that are increasingly de-agricultural and that are registered in the real estate register as closed gardens, including land. This situation has been resolved by a legal provision which, for a certain period, according to the current rules, will allow for the modification of the agricultural branch of the closed garden plot to be removed from the closed garden area by the end of this year, on the basis of the owner's request. Many of the owners of the landscapes in the closed garden have taken advantage of this opportunity, but the practice has also shown that this opportunity has gradually reached public awareness, and that, due to the current interest in the area of real estate registration, it is possible to register the property in 1997. CXLI. Law 89/A It would be appropriate to maintain Article 5 of the Act in such a way that the deadline for the submission of an application is extended by one year, i.e. until 31 December 2017. The possibility to maintain the possibility is also justified in the case of cadastral cadastral areas listed in the wine grape register, but in order to protect the vineyards, it is indeed necessary to tighten up the requirement that the application for a real estate registration as an area excluded from cultivation be accompanied by a proof of the felling of the crop. In the absence of such proof, i.e. if the plantation is present on the plot, the application of the owner would not be admissible. The legislation outlined above in relation to the landscapes in the closed garden also justifies the amendment of the Land Protection Act. In the case of agricultural land, land is considered to be used for other purposes, subject to the authorisation of the real estate authority, and it is also subject to a significant payment if the agricultural branch of the agricultural land changes to an area excluded from cultivation. However, the practical application of this in relation to the plot of land in the closed garden would indeed be contrary to the simplification objective outlined previously, and therefore the maintenance of this regulation should be considered in the case of areas in the closed garden, and it is therefore appropriate to state in this law that the change which may be transferred on the basis of the owner's request does not constitute a non-use of the land for other purposes and that the procedures initiated for this purpose are not justified. The further amendments to the Land Protection Act in the proposal are intended to correct, on the one hand, a legislative error in respect of the administrative service fee to be paid for the protection of land and, on the other hand, to ensure that no charge is paid for the use of land under cultivation. The rate of the fee for the protection of land, the rules on payment, management, registration and use of land are already contained in the Ministerial Decree issued under the authority of this Act, but there is indeed a lack of legal provision for the payment of charges which this proposal intends to replace. An area excluded from cultivation can only be recreated for agricultural use at a significant cost. In order not to impose additional financial burden on the recycling operator, the proposal provides for an exemption from the obligation to pay a fee. This could significantly facilitate the recycling of unutilised, uncultivated properties and their inclusion in agricultural production. The further amendments to the Land Protection Act in the proposal are clarifications which are also relevant because some of them, in a previous investigation, have been indicated by the Commissioner of Fundamental Rights in order to comply with the requirement of legal certainty arising from the principles of the rule of law in the context of the statutory obligation of joint and several partners to pay. Dear Parliament, On the basis of what has been said, Mr Font's bill seeks to resolve several important issues in a favourable way for the customers, and I therefore ask for your vote in favour of these proposals. Now, thank you very much for your attention.
u2016-11-23-316	Now we're going to have keynote speeches. I give the floor to János Pócs, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group.
u2016-11-23-317	Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, It is a fact that after the entry into force of the land law, sales of closed-garden properties have been considerably difficult compared to the previous one. At the same time, I would like to point out that the protection of enclosed garden areas is an important segment of land regulation. The fact that closed gardens form a rather mixed land use category, where land use for recreational purposes is definitely present in addition to agricultural use, does not give us a reason to leave these areas without protection when the land moratorium expires. We remember that the expiry of the land moratorium, after the entry into force of the Earth Traffic Act, became apparent that some relief was needed for closed gardens. I would like to note here that my fellow opposition Members took note of the situation at the time, and I recall that there were some constructive, well-intentioned proposals on the subject. In the meantime, of course, the Ministry has continued its work, and a solution has been found, which can be considered a satisfactory compromise. The protection of closed gardens is not affected, but owners have the opportunity to increase and improve the salesability of agricultural areas. This is the current situation, but under the current rules, the possibility of preferential land-office conversion would cease from 1 January. The proposal, as President Font Sándor said, prolongs the possibility, provides an opportunity for those who have not made use of the discount so far, preventing a seizure that might arise at the Land Offices due to the upcoming deadline. It also addresses issues related to changing the land use category in the closed garden. This bill is supported by the Fidesz faction, and I would also ask my fellow Members - I believe this is a good initiative - to support it. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2016-11-23-318	Thank you. I now give the floor to Congressman László Varga, on behalf of the MSZP.
u2016-11-23-319	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, I am formally putting forward our group's position on this issue: we will also support the proposal, because we consider it to be a step forward, and also that the deadline will be extended until 31 December 2017. And you may be surprised that it is not a classic agricultural politician speaking to our group on this issue, but it may not be a classic agricultural issue, but it is an interesting border field somewhere. The question of closed frames, as far as I can see, means different things in local public life by type of settlement. In the summer of 2014, I received numerous requests as the representative of the Parliament of Miskolc to create a huge problem for the tenants of the closed gardens and the tenants of the small gardens, that according to the new land law, their local government leases could only be extended if they were farmers, and the production organisation could not necessarily apply to them. [[0.20]] And obviously, since Miskolc, and I think there may be such a problem in other cities with county rights, they were not cultivated by farmers. This has created a huge problem for these people. Obviously, many of these closed gardens, especially people working in mining and metallurgy, who may have spent their retirement years today, have been cultivated as hobby gardens, I think, to everyone's satisfaction. This is more than meeting the needs of their families, their environment, it is certainly not a commercial type of activity that is obviously after the sale of the crop. Beyond the fact that they helped their families in this way, otherwise the city border was kept in order. Therefore, in some rural cities, it can also be seen that, where they have fallen from these closed gardens, very serious public security and other problems have developed, not to mention what the landscape also means in this respect. Mr János Pócs referred to it, yes, there have indeed been several initiatives from my group. Then we said that I would keep it the same way, that maybe that's a hectare of psychic boundaries where you can separate it like a size, that someone operates as a hobby garden, uses such an area or otherwise. Then the case was settled temporarily in another way, and obviously now it is an extension, for someone - 8-9 percent of the land users here - this could be a solution, but we see that we need a long-term and comprehensive solution to this issue. So I think there is a conflict here at the border of certain types of settlements, which is the protection of agricultural land, on the one hand, and, on the other hand, a constant need for some citizens to expand the interior, and, where appropriate, municipalities may have this type of interest in using certain areas in another way. Somehow these closed gardens should be protected and given a long-term opportunity to be used in such a way that they are not only used by farmers or producer organisations. This may be a special metropolitan problem, which I am talking about, but it may be in a smaller town or small settlement, or these problems do not occur or do not occur in other parts of the country. I admit that, but I would like to raise the possibility that, as a third legal institution, somewhere between the two, we will regulate this issue in a lively manner. So, in a lifelike way, so that the protection of the soil can be achieved, because I know that it is either in Western Hungary or in the closed gardens, or, where appropriate, many foreign citizens have acquired land ownership in this way. Obviously, I understand that the legislation on the protection of agricultural land is important, and I think that I do not argue with that, but I say that in the case of closed gardens, for example, in the case of hobby gardeners, this creates an impossible situation for tenants in Miskolc, for example. This is a kind of temporary handling of the matter, the continuation of it, we support it, but I offer our cooperation in the comprehensive treatment of this issue with a five-party proposal. Thank you, Mr. President.
u2016-11-23-320	I now give the floor to Zoltán Magyar.
u2016-11-23-321	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I will also say in advance that we support this proposal, as I have already said before the committee. I regret, however, that around the debate of the Land Traffic Act, when it was possible to suspect that this was going to be a problem, there was no greater emphasis on this, either on the government side or in order to prevent the change in 2015, with a number of written questions and with a speech we tried to draw attention to this problem from here, Jobbik's faction. And I would like to start by saying that it does not seem that there will be a sustainable, long-term solution to this problem, because there will always be a kind of pressure from closed garden owners to find a solution. I understand that this is the answer to the most pressing problems, the most burning situations, but this condition will survive. President Sándor Font said an 86,000 number on the fact that so far so many people have indicated that they would make use of this facilitation, which is about 8 percent of those who could take advantage of this opportunity, and I suspect that this number is a great number, because it has obviously made life easier for 86 thousand owners and for 2015. On the other hand, this is not a high number. My hunch is that a lot more of the private garden owners would like to take advantage of this opportunity. I am pleased that Mr Secretary of State has mentioned that there is a kind of upswing in this area and that more and more people are getting this information, but in one of my amendments, I am attempting to inform this 1 million 100 thousand potential stakeholders with a very short, understandable letter that this opportunity has now been opened to them. I wrote here in my amendment on 15 December 2016, so I can see in hindsight that this may be a tight deadline, so I am open to pushing it out even half a year later, but I think the state could do it to the closed garden owners to make this notification. I tabled another amendment, which, in connection with the withdrawal from cultivation and the extension of the date, makes a condition that, in the case of properties with an area of more than five thousand square metres, this kind of extra one-year push does not take place. Whoever has done so, who has had the information, and has the willingness to do so, is fine, so I would not withdraw this possibility retroactively, but I believe that this is the size of the estate that my fellow Member has already said that it could indeed be for speculation, or I would certainly use this restriction here for the protection of land. Or, if you look at the level of EU aid, you could have a hectare, although obviously you can still claim this area payment by combining areas here. So we should draw a line somewhere, even if it doesn't mean a significant part of the property. I'm guessing a few percent of it could only be this big. My third amendment, which I would like to draw your attention to, is that, although we already had a small debate with President Font at the committee meeting, the Minister clearly wishes to look into these data managed by the State Administrations for surveying and spatial information in order to carry out tasks related to his professional management. Here, I would like to make a slight improvement: I would like to change the word "available" to "look inside" and thus, well, to refine the Minister's options. Not suspecting anyone, but we, as opposition representatives, have felt, in the light of the experience of recent years, that perhaps so many extra powers would be sufficient for Minister to carry out his professional duties. Thank you, Mr. President. [[0.30]]
u2016-11-23-322	I'm asking if anyone would like to comment on the bill. [[No signal.]] I do not see a candidate, so the general debate is closed. I would like to ask Mr Font Sándor if he would like to speak to him. It says yes. You have the floor.
u2016-11-23-323	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Thank the factions for their support. There are still amendments to be tabled by Thursday afternoon, so there is still room for ideas. It is obvious that my proposal to amend the law will not solve the closed garden problem in itself, which we have discussed here from several aspects. Indeed, for the time being, we are trying to solve only this difficult question so that it is possible for a year longer to lead real estate out of the agricultural sector, and, of course, as my fellow Member, Zoltán Magyar noted in the speech of the previous law, that we often refer to our debate with the European Union as to the fact that, until the end of the debate with the EU, we are expected to recommend no expansion, its amendment, so the problem of closed gardens is still to be mentioned. But in the meantime, what we can amend here with good intentions in this half law, we accept and want to implement it. Thank you again for your support.
u2016-11-23-324	Ladies and gentlemen, The amendment proposals can be submitted by 16:00 on Thursday, as has been said. This brings us to the end of the discussion of today's agendas. Thank you for your work. Parliament will resume the meeting at 11 a.m. on Monday. Meeting day's closed. [[Meeting ended at 0.30 a.m.]]
