u2016-12-07-0	I wish you a good morning. Ladies and gentlemen, I welcome you all with love. The 30th day of the autumn session of the Parliament is hereby opened. I would like to inform you that László Földi and István Szávay will be taking part in this meeting. I also welcome all our dear guests who are present here, and I welcome those who are monitoring our work today. A parliamentary report by the President of the Curia on the activities of the Curia in 2015 in the field of the provision of legal unity and control of local government standards will follow, as well as the joint general debate on the proposal for a decision to adopt it, until closure. The report submitted by the President of the Curia B/11304, and the proposal for a decision submitted by the Judicial Committee, H/12934. Number 2 is available on the Parliament's IT network. First, I give the floor to Mr Péter Darák, President of the Curia, author of the report, in a 30-minute time frame. I'd like to ask Mr. President to come up to the pulpit and tell me your report's exposé from here. We'll wait for Mr. President to take over. Mr. President, I salute you. You have the floor.
u2016-12-07-1	Mr President, Dear Parliament, In criminal law and criminal law, it is contrary to the intention of its legislators to give birth and to have a final judgment declaring an innocent person guilty. Compared to this, all other nullity reasons, such as the fact that the court was not legally constituted, did not act as a protector, as a secondary; ultimately, it creates nullity because it is presumed that the violation of principles and guarantees endangers the truth. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. The quote comes from Tibor Király's Penalty Judgment at the Border of Law, and this quote is found in the Order of the Curia published in the Hungarian Gazette of 23 October 2016. In this order, the Curia deals with the condemnation of Imre Nagy and his associates. It states that the retaliatory judgments in Hungary in 1958 claimed the conceptual inability to assume responsibility for treason by the legitimate prime minister standing in favour of sovereignty. The order also stated that Imre Nagy and his associates' prosecution without real sin was intended for political purposes to be executed. This did not carry out justice, but a common murder, and therefore only nullity with the power of the law can be corrected, because it says that what started with the lure and capture of General Pál Maléter, and then with the kidnapping of Prime Minister Imre Nagy, and ended with their execution, is rejected by the justice system and by the order of justice, because it is foreign to him, unsuitable. Therefore, he considers their conviction to be as from the date of its occurrence, the judgment is iudicium non executables, not judgment. Dear Parliament, I considered it important to begin my 2015 report with this order made in 2016 because it indicates that the justice system has a side of technical rationality, the rules of which seem to ignore the true content of the case; the true content of which gives its opinion on guilt and innocence, legitimate need and injustice. And the reason why it is important to recall this process today, in 2016, from 1958 to 2016, which includes the year 2015 because it indicates that, in order to enforce justice, it is necessary to have an organizational culture that pays more attention to content issues than to the technical rationality of the legal profession. This example also shows that the judge alone is unable to restore the truth without the institutions of positive law, just as the Supreme Prosecutor and the defenders and the judges of the Curia were involved in the adoption of this decision. Their joint performance is this order and its substance. The President of the Curia is also personally striving to establish bodies to promote an organizational culture that supports justice in order to develop an appropriate organisational culture. In this spirit, I formed a Presidential Advisory Board to resolve the ongoing interpretation of the new civil code, which is why I wanted to improve the communication within the judicial system by conducting a case-law analysis with the Debrecen Judgment Board on infringement cases, which is why I have designated contact judges to establish personal contacts with the colleges of the first instance courts. This will help the Mansion to raise and mediate the problems of legal unity. That is why I called the Hungarian judges to join the legal unit groups on the basis of their voluntary application, in which the Ptk. they examine and analyse certain of his books, carry out virtual discussions on evolving case law and interpretation. In doing so, a professional community has been established that goes beyond the organisational framework of the courts, which accelerates the flow of information and makes the professional guidance of the superior courts more effective. Dear Parliament, In relation to the specific and binding content of my report, I would like to say a few words about the activities of the Municipal Council of the Curia in 2015. I would like to point out that in 2015 there were an increasing number of municipal normal control initiatives for the Curia, among which were the largest number of judicial initiatives, but there were a high number of government officials' initiatives, and a number of proposals were also tabled by the Commissioner for Fundamental Rights. Arrivals show an increasing trend overall. In 2015, the municipal council completed 63 cases, of which a substantive decision was taken in 44. What were the questions that the municipal council concerned in its decision-making? It established the limits of the legislative power when the municipality intended to use a specific social group, a well-defined circle of persons to leave the settlement or to make it difficult to settle in another settlement. The Curia saw that this exceeded the legislative power of the municipality. Cases have also been brought before the Curia on the basis of a legal mandate to regulate Community coexistence. Thus, the Curia found it illegal to consider conduct related to the placement of electoral posters to be a violation of the rules of community co-existence, or to threaten to impose sanctions on a person who pollutes a public-law establishment after such conduct has already been regulated by the Code of Violation. [[9.10]] The municipal tax gave municipalities a wide discretion and choice. In 2015, municipalities made use of this option in the field of land taxation. In this context, the Curia explained that a distinction should be made between taxable persons as regards the definition of the taxable group, according to the fact that, in so far as they are self-employed, prima facie or legal persons, they are not subject to the municipal tax. As regards the nature of the public burden, it was found that the compensation contribution is not a public burden, whereas the field guard service, as a compensation for the provision of a public service, constitutes such a public burden, thus excluding the determination of the municipal tax. As regards local taxes, land tax, construction tax and communal taxation cases have generally been brought before the Curia. All three of the petitioners were involved here as well. The Curia has basically continued its practice in previous years, but it can be assessed as a change that it has typically rejected the claim of tax infringements this year. In most cases it was found that the tax payable had not been released from the value of the tax item. However, it was also the opposite decision. However, it also led to an annulment of the legal basis, unjustified discrimination between landowners and a legislative error. In one case, the Kuria also had to point out that the municipality was legally obliged to implement the provisions of the previous decision of the Constitutional Court. With regard to the tax base, it had to be stated that a local tax cannot be established per taxpayer but can only be regulated for certain tax items. The Curia has explicitly sought to strike a balance between restoring the legality of the local tax burden and protecting local government's own income from local tax. To that end, it adopted an interpretation in one case in which the legality of the provision was in question that it excluded the applicability of the rule in respect of that taxable person, but did not in general destroy the provision. As regards the order of legislation, we have met a municipal regulation which did not contain an adequate provision of entry into force and is therefore invalid in public law. We had to analyse the concept of the time needed to prepare, understand the problem of retroactivity. We also had to draw attention to the fact that the new legislative law and the judicial regulation on the drafting of legislation provide that in the introductory part of the municipal regulations it is necessary to refer to whether the municipality is acting in its original legislative power or on the basis of a statutory mandate. We have dealt with the mayor's veto institution, the extent to which the Curia's previous norm control decisions will be implemented. We have established that the collection of the National Legislative Decrees does not follow the devastating decisions of the Curia, and it would be worth paying more attention to the up-to-dateness of this register. I would like to mention our decision to trigger a relatively large press conference from this year, when we established, in Budapest's capital, the illegal nature of the provision that made the parking ticket possible only within the five-day limitation period, in relation to the order of waiting in Budapest. Dear Parliament, Allow me to show you in a few words the activity we have carried out for the sake of legal unity in 2015. On the one hand, we have taken a major decision on the legal unit in criminal matters in order to establish a mansion control of repealing orders. To this end, the power of the Attorney General has been recognised as a legal remedy, and later this position has been represented in the codification of criminal proceedings. The firm position of the Curia is that these repealing orders should be subject to appeal before the superior court, because, if there is no control over the content of the repealing orders, certain proceedings may go uncontrolled. The Curia also took a significant decision on a legal unit in respect of the actual life sentence, which, following the decision of the Constitutional Court, established the practical criteria for this kind of punishment. I would also like to highlight the decision by the administrative unit of law that has given rise to the possible sanctioning of false data reporting in cases of alien law enforcement, as well as the decision by the legal unit in which we have repealed the earlier legal unit decision on police images in order to remove the limitations of the practical aspects established under the previous legislative text, in order to ensure that the provisions of the new civil code are somewhat different, and to allow the new Ptk. based on the development of a new, more modern judicial practice. The Administrative College of the Curia has adopted an important opinion on the exercise of discretion. A significant decision in principle has been published B.10. I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I'm sorry, I'm sorry. This is also our position in the process of codification of criminal proceedings. The Curia has clarified the conceptual criteria for gratuity money; it has dealt with the problem of working with minors in foreign police matters; and we have made a significant decision P.6. under the heading "School segregation'. As early as 2015, the issue of the requirements for signing will witnesses was raised in a decision in principle. However, this decision in principle did not close the question. Recently, the Curia has issued a new law unit decision extending the possibility of proof of the signing of will witnesses. I also consider P.11 important. A decision in principle concerning the completeness of claims for compensation for children born with disabilities, as set out in G.1. In principle No 14 which distinguished the criteria for consumer and non-consumer loans and the Labour College expressed its position on management quality in its decision No 14. Dear Parliament, Given that I have heard extremely valuable suggestions before the Justice Committee about the operation of the Curia, allow me to highlight four of these moments. The first is the extent to which the Curia and the judiciary apply the provisions of the Fundamental Law directly. I also referred to this question to my presentation here at the conference on "The Fundamental Law of five years," held in the Felsőházi Hall, which shows that the application of the fundamental provisions of the Fundamental Law is an important part of the justice system, even if it is not directly based on the Fundamental Law, but rather on the legal regulation that fulfills its content. In another question, I was asked whether the rules of the Curia's standard control procedure were in order. I referred to the fact that the new administrative procedure in the form which was finally adopted and voted on yesterday includes, in a codified manner, the rules of procedure for the control of standards in Manoria. The question was also raised as to why the Curia dealt with the legal charges in 2015. My answer to that is that the quoted B.10. A decision in principle is not an abstract legal guideline, but a statement of a specific case as a guiding decision on the part of the Curia. So the explanation is that B.10. in principle, why the Curia published the decision in 2015 and at that very time, the fact that this case ended at that time, and it was then qualified to be highlighted as a decision in principle. The fourth question that came up before the Justice Committee was related to a specific matter. According to the content of the proposal, the question is whether it is acceptable to have a judge board on two occasions, contrary to the Curia's repealing decision, to take a different legal position on the classification of a criminal offence. Of course, I cannot answer this particular matter. However, in general, I can state the principle that one of the essential elements of the organizational culture, as we use the formula for judging, is judged by a judicial council, which is overruled by another judicial council in the event of an appeal, and that is right. [[9.20]] The professional conviction of the judge does not have to back down even if the superior judge takes a different position. If this were not the case, jurisdiction would lose its independence as a vital element. Therefore, it should not be possible for a judge's attachment to his professional conviction to be subject to a sanction. However, I must add that the Curia's position in this case will finally prevail. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2016-12-07-2	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, I now give the floor to Mr. György Rubovszky, President of the Judicial Committee, rapporteur of the motion for a decision, also within a 30-minute time frame. Here you go, Mr. President.
u2016-12-07-3	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, The President of the Curia has put me in the lucky position of presenting his report to the Judicial Committee. In order to avoid falling into repetitions, which is unfortunate, allow me to add very briefly. All I would just like to say is that during the hearing before the committee, which was held on 15 November, the committee will continue the practice of asking questions by the members of the committee following the presidential amendment, of giving the floor to the obliged officer present at the hearing, and of giving an opinion after answering the questions. As I have just said, Mr President, he presented the questions asked, the substantive questions in his report and gave the answer, and this was so well done before the Judicial Committee that when the decision was taken, there was a ratio that 10 members of the committee supported the decision to adopt the report, there was no vote against, and there was only one Member. As far as I can remember, such a good ratio of accounts has not yet been made. After that, I ask that the Honourable Parliament accept our Parliamentary resolution, which is to say that we propose to the Parliament that it accept the report of the President of the Curia from the year 2015. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-12-07-4	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I would like to ask Mr Pál Völner, State Secretary, if he wishes to speak on behalf of the government. [[Dr. Pál Völner: Not now, thank you.]] He doesn't want to. The speeches will then be held by the representatives, the first among which will be held by the lead speaker in a 30-30-minute time frame. I give the floor first from the Fidesz Group to Member Robert Répássy. Here you go, Congressman.
u2016-12-07-5	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, In the evaluation of the report on the work of the Curia in 2015, I would first of all like to announce that the Fidesz parliamentary group supports the adoption of the report. Before evaluating the report, I would like to note that this is the fourth time the Parliament has discussed the report of the President of the Curia. As yesterday in the evaluation of the report of the President of the National Court of Justice, I would like to draw attention to the fact that, in 2011, the Parliament decided to separate the management of the court organisation from an administrative management and professional management by 1 January 2012. The Curia, which manages its own organisation, is primarily the professional head of the courts, and this is the result of which, in addition to recent and recent years' support and reporting, I believe it was the right decision to separate the administrative management of the courts and the professional management of the courts. For the fourth time, the President of the Curia has been able to report on his professional work, on how he has performed his duties, as laid down by the Fundamental Law and the Law of the Court of Justice, as well as on certain procedural laws. The Curia is primarily a forum for redress, then its tasks include the provision of a legal unit - and in some respects this is its main task - the control of the regulations of the local government, the assessment of the remedies relating to the referendum, the taking of decisions in principle in certain fields, and not least the analysis of case law. This is how the main tasks of the Curia can be framed. We can conclude that the 2015 report also includes a detailed report on these, i.e. all of its activities were legally performed by the Curia and in the spirit of the Fundamental Law. What I would like to say about the procedure as an appeal forum is that it is obviously the decision of the legislature to act as an appeal forum for the Curia, which decisions, at the top of which proceedings, will put the Curia in a position to be a proper forum for redress, and it should also be mentioned that the Curia is also carrying out an extraordinary remedy. The report also contains the facts in this regard. The most important task, according to the President of the Curia, is to secure the legal unit. I also refer to the case-law analysis activity, as this can also lead to decisions to ensure the unity of rights, but the analysis of case-law, of course, has value in itself. Later, I would like to return to the analysis of the case-law. Constitutional control over municipal decrees is the new task of the Mansion. This is provided by the Municipal Council. The Municipal Council worked well and in particular confirmed the decision of the constitutionalist and the legislator to relieve the Constitutional Court from the rule of law of the local government. The special situation is when the municipality has to make up for the decision and the Curia is involved in replacing the decision of the municipality. I'm guessing it's only gonna happen for an exception. The Curia also acted as an appeal forum for the referendum. Mr President presented this in his previous speech, as there was also a referendum, as well as a number of referendum initiatives. The work of the Curia was also complete in this regard. He's making policy decisions. Different types of policy decisions obviously have different weight, but the fact that the professional head of the court, the Curia, makes such decisions in principle, there is a certain professional orientation, even if Mr President has just explained that the professional conviction of judges working in lower courts is part of their independence. Nevertheless, the judges are obviously trying to follow these decisions in principle. Finally, I would like to say a few words about the case-law analysis activity, which I also said at the meeting of the Judicial Committee. Just one parentheses note: we welcome the fact that the main advisory system in the Curia is becoming more and more useful. Main Advisors are not judges, but actors who can really help judge or judge. I note in brackets that a similar system of chief advisors would also be needed in lower courts, and as far as I know, there is such an initiative. I think it would be very helpful, by the way, in the courts of Europe, in particular in the courts of the European Union or the European Council, to do this kind of senior advisory work is well-known and well-established. The Advocate General's opinion does not bind the judges, but it does help them to make their decisions on legal or other issues. I made this a parenthesis comment for the case-law analysis. [[9.30]] In the case of the case-law analysis, the report contains the subjects, the cases, the case-law analysis that the President of the Curia or the Curia has decided. However, in my view, all of these can be considered thematic, so the Curia carries out a case-law analysis on certain topics and on certain types of cases. For my part, I would suggest that not only a thematic case-law analysis is needed, but that there should be an analysis of the case-law which could help the public to understand why there is so much difference between judicial forums and different levels in individual cases. After all, the main concern is that it is difficult to explain to the general public, and it is obviously also a threat to trust in the justice system that, in the same case, the various forums are in a completely different position; in one case, a serious punishment is imposed at the first judicial forum, until the second-degree court says that there has not been even a crime, rather than punishing the defendants, but almost commending the defendants. This kind of difference does not cause problems in specific cases, but trust in justice is at stake on this issue. Of course, as a lawyer, I know that the judicial decision or the court's decision is final when the final decision is reached. So there's no problem with different levels judging a case differently, a case before them. There's nothing wrong with that. But if this is systemic and regular, and there are great differences between the first and the second degree, then if for no other reason, the legislator should be drawn to the attention of the legislator as to what the problem is in this type of case, what causes them to be able to judge it so sharply differently. After all, we believe that ensuring the unity of rights between the Curia's duties is not only a requirement for the provision of a legal unit in a geographical sense, so it is mandatory for all the courts in the country, but it should, in fact, also ensure that the courts judge at least similar legal matters in a similar way. This is not a question of judicial independence, it is a professional question. A professional question is how to obtain a completely different opinion. This, Mr President, is not a criticism, but a proposal, since criticism is not worth drawing up against their work. It is clear that the analysis of case law is a proven tool, and I note only in parentheses that this is also due to the new judicial laws that entered into force on 1 January 2012, but the analysis of case law can be a very important message for legislation, because, in my understanding, the analysis of case law is a kind of ex post impact assessment of laws. You claim to be the mirror of the law, that I beg you, that you form such laws, and in the case law, these laws are thus and so, so that is what individual courts mean by law, and that is what they mean by law. For us, therefore, very important feedback is what the result of the case-law analysis shows. We legislators need to know these issues. Of course, through the Ministry of Justice, the results of the case-law analysis will arrive in the legislation, but it would be good if the results of the case-law analysis could be delivered directly to the legislative process. Mr President, I would like to respond in one sentence, or perhaps in two sentences, to what you said here, namely, when the Curia made a decision and the lower-level court reiterated its professional position, you said that professional conviction is part of judicial independence. We totally agree with that, and no one is questioning that. But usually one feature of second-degree decisions is that they call first-degree decisions illegal. He says that the first choice here and here at this point was against the law. Dear House, Let's just say that insisting on breaking the law is not a professional belief, that's a mistake. If someone repeats the violation of the law, I am not talking about the specific case, I just want to say that I believe that there is a limit to professional conviction, in this sense there is also a limit to judicial independence. The judge works under the law, and if the judge insists on his own law-breaking position, it should not be ignored. Dear House, I hope that nothing I have said has been ruined by the fact that we believe that the Curia has done an excellent job, and for the fourth year now, the Curia, as the professional leader of the court organisation, is fulfilling its role, fulfilling its constitutional role, and that is why we are proposing the adoption of the report of the President of the Curia. Thank you very much, Mr President, for the floor. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-12-07-6	Thank you very much, Congressman. Mr László Teleki is the lead speaker of the MSZP Group. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2016-12-07-7	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear Parliament, [[Dr. Darák turned to Peter:]] Mr President, The voice of thanks is the first in me, because I think that the Hungarian Socialist Party made the decision it made at the committee meeting to support the report of the Curia in 2015 because it considers it important to do the work that the judges are doing within the Curia, and the judiciary, which is independent and professional, greatly improves the situation that is today in Hungary. What's the situation? So it is very important for us, the Hungarian Socialist Party, to see and perceive that in many places there is a political pressure on the various institutions that is very difficult to prevent or prevent, so it is very important that the judges, with their independence, were able to resist this pressure and did not try to take over the roles of political decision-makers. We have seen and felt, in many cases, that, as my fellow Member Répássy said in his last thoughts, many times we want to influence how the first-level decision or the second-degree decision should be made. I think that would be a very big mistake. We, at least Democrats, in the Hungarian Socialist Party do not believe that judicial independence should be questioned. We can, of course, accept the judicial decision that you make. My colleague Gergely Bárándy will tell you more about these on a professional basis. I took this task today because I also said it at the committee meeting, and I would like to say today that the work of the Council of the Municipality that it has started is certainly very important, and it is important because if I think only of my own territory and of my professional territory, it is possible to see that there are also the rights and permissions that apply to all Hungarian citizens in Hungary. And I am pleased that the Council of the Municipality has already taken action and judgment to ensure that those forced to leave the settlement do not have to leave the settlements if they do not want to do so. This is important because not only in the case of Miskolc - which I said at the committee meeting - but also in many settlements of the country there is a similar phenomenon, and it is very often not possible to detect it, because there is no real signal for you or for the other settlements, but I think that in order to stop in some municipalities the offensive regulations that were born in Miskolc, I think it can be a very important signal either for Miskolc or for the other settlements, because it can stop the process that we can see at this moment. Therefore, it is absolutely important for me to say this out loud here that the Hungarian Socialist Party is happy to support your work. The other thing is very important: he mentioned it in his report, but also in the Commission report. I also say that there are one or two cases that have come to light, but there is much more in Hungary, and probably not all of them have come to you yet, but if they get to you, there may be a completely different direction for segregation education programmes that still exist in Hungary today, because I do not think that there can be an education system in Hungary that separates the poor, separates the Roma and separates the very rich. [[9.40]] Therefore, policy cannot put sufficient emphasis and weight on education segregation. I am pleased that you are giving guidance to politics, to society, that it cannot be done, and that, translated into the language of the law, you are doing so, which, I think, is absolutely important for the future generation, that there should not be any difference just because someone was born rich or was born poor. Therefore, I consider this part of the matter to be very important. The independence of the judges has already been mentioned, and I have to say once again that the work that is going on with you in the spirit of independence and professionalism, I think that it is absolutely worthy of support, and that is why the Hungarian Socialist Party will certainly support the report. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2016-12-07-8	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, The lead speaker of the KDNP Group is Mr György Rubovszky. There you go. You have the floor.
u2016-12-07-9	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, If Congressman Répássy has already agreed a little to this historical overview, then let me agree that I could be a member of the old administration system, the so-called National Judicial Council, on two occasions, so I saw this practice directly and saw that the President of the OIT was, of his own motion, the Supreme Court President elected by the Parliament. The administration was essentially carried out by the office, but under the direct direction of the President, and if I remember correctly, the Council of Justice was established between 1994 and 1998 under the Minister of Justice of Pál Vastagh. [[Dr. Gergely Bárándy: 1997.]] Before that, the court office and the court administration were a department of the Ministry of Justice. When it came to the issue of separating the powers of the OIT, so that there should be a professional leader and this President of the Curia, and an administrative director who, as head of the National Court Office, administers the administration of the court, bad news came from Europe because there was a country where this separation was made, and despite the fact that the President of the Supreme Court is responsible for professional matters and the Head of the Court for administrative matters, in that country the Minister of Finance discussed the budget with the President of the Supreme Court when he is not in charge of administrative tasks. So, it was not completely smooth and completely clear the picture that Europe showed on this issue; there were fears. I believe these, thank God, were unfounded. To the best of my knowledge, the relationship between the Curia and the administration of the National Court of Justice is completely normal and appropriate in all circumstances. I, as chairman of the committee, did not ask any questions, but, on the basis of the answers to the questions asked, I supported the presentation of the parliamentary decision with complete and calm conviction, and I would also like to announce here that the Group of the Christian Democratic People's Party supports the fact that Parliament is bringing forward this proposal for a resolution, i.e. the adoption of the report. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-12-07-10	Thank you very much, Congressman. The lead speaker of the Jobbik Group is Mr Gábor Staudt, who is speaking on the stand. We'll wait for Congressman to wake up on the stand. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2016-12-07-11	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, Dear President Darak, Vice President Konya and colleagues from the Mansion! It is a great pleasure to be able to negotiate similar reports here in front of the Parliament and in the commission, as this is a forum in which the Parliament, the Members of Parliament, can evaluate the judicial work, of course on a professional basis, and together a professional work and a common professional thinking can be launched. This is very difficult in other cases, since it often concerns members of the government, representatives or even representatives of other organisations - although, obviously, as far as the Government and the Members of Parliament are concerned, it is more pronounced on this issue - the accusation is that they are interfering with the judgment if they are to give an opinion on certain judgments or put pressure on the courts, in worse cases. Of course, pressure is not allowed and we do not think it is good, but professional debate is all the more difficult - of course we know - to find out where it is where criticism still applies and where it is when the courts can perceive certain acts as pressure. I also have to say that, when discussing a report, it is clear that professional aspects should come to the fore, which is why I am pleased when there are such agendas, and we can discuss them. I also have to tell you that we are essentially satisfied with the work of the Curia, so we see trends, we see progress, we see good decisions in very good numbers, but unfortunately, we will still be left with criticism, although I will explain that this is not always just the Curia's fault. I will also give the criticisms in more detail because I am well aware of Mr President's attitude, and I know that he likes to keep and not respond to praises for himself, and he prefers criticism because it can be built on. Because of this noble attitude, I will obviously not go about every good decision that has been made or every good decision in principle, because I must say that I do not believe that it is Parliament's job to list all such decisions, but I will also mention one or two positive ones, which will also mean that in those cases we will assess its legal attitude separately for the Mansion. And why I said that what was happening in many cases was not the death of the Curia, because of which I was forced to stay at the committee meeting, and that we will also decide in Parliament, is practically a case, and it is a matter of foreign exchange credentials - which would be unfair to pin on the Curia. It would be unfair, even if, in our opinion, a number of major professional errors were made, and these errors caused a very difficult situation in many cases, but we can see that the attitude of the government and the Parliament, above all the majority of the Parliament, which they did not dare to deal with at political level, at legislative level, or because they did not dare to come to the banks in a proper way, and they pushed the decision to the Curia, of course, with a significant pressure exercise - and here it was, if you do not like it, obviously everyone or most of the people involved will deny it; but there was also the enormous pressure on the Curia outside, and in this case, when it is necessary to decide on a case or a set of cases beyond the law, I can also say that it is actually difficult to expect the Curia to resolve these situations. So, regardless of where formal decisions have been taken that we cannot agree with, but we continue to blame the government and the parliamentary majority primarily on these matters. Moreover, I would add that Parliament has made the situation even worse. So not only did it not help to resolve this, but also in nullity issues, in the legislative amendment, when Parliament saw that lawsuits were being won by foreign exchange taxpayers under the laws in force, it quickly changed the law. [[9.50]] So this was so impertinent, which we specifically reprimand to the majority of Parliament, and this has practically made it impossible for people seeking justice in the courts to do so. So it was important to tell you this because it would be unfair in a very unfair way if we put all this on the Curia. I don't, and that's why I wanted to stress it. I also have to tell you that things have happened since then - for example, in Romania, for example, it seems that foreign currency loans and foreign currency loans there will be undermined - which should re-evaluate the attitude of the government itself, the Parliament. And if you were to say yes, but in Romania there was not so much debt in foreign currency as in Hungary, that is true, but if I hear this argument, then I immediately come to mind: then it seems to me that this is the only important thing, how many banks are affected or how much is affected by the problem? Can that define legal issues now? Unfortunately, yes; unfortunately, I must say yes. So it matters, unfortunately, how extensive a problem is, and how much money, how much money, how much bank interests it hurts. And it also matters - and this is a bigger problem, and once again it puts the main emphasis on the government - if, by the way, the law and the laws in force were on the side of the debtors, and these contracts, when concluded, in many cases suffered a legal error that would have made them invalid, or otherwise, let us say, the currency fund did not stop. But going forward, because I will have to deal with foreign exchange issues a little bit further, but I would like to highlight those issues even at the beginning of my speech after the introduction, for which I see positive, extremely positive trends. I also said it funnyly at the committee meeting, obviously it was only half a joke because there was a serious statement behind it that I noticed it, and this year I came to this position that every time I count positive decisions, most of all, the decisions of the Criminal College come to the fore. So I would also like to congratulate Vice President István Kónya, the Head of the Criminal College, who is also present here, because every year I see a work with a very high level of professionalism, in which it is really difficult to get involved, and our aim is not, of course, to do so. But believe me, we'd say the reviews if they were so high. I will also prove that I will do so at the Civic College. As we have seen before, for example, in the case of legitimate protection, it was a decision that was particularly pleasing to me in the case of, or in the sense that a very sober, very realistic and very good, forward-looking and true decision, which, while observing trends over the years, proved to be absolutely correct, which in effect legally restored those arguments, the arguments put forward against these Btk. Passes of the Parliament, which were not justified, but the time also proved that the law was indeed very good that it was determined. The same is true of life imprisonment, which is included in this report. In connection with the actual imprisonment of life, a very important principle has been declared, which, on the one hand, can be said to be natural, but the declaration of natural things sometimes requires a powerful decision, in practical terms, it can be said that the Hungarian criminal laws in force must be observed by the courts and that other international decisions, decisions in Strasbourg or international agreements and the incorporation into Hungarian law must be taken by the Hungarian Parliament, and that the courts should not have a duty to go beyond the laws in force in Hungary, and that Hungarian legislation should not be applied because certain decisions are taken in Strasbourg. Here, the Parliament has a job to do, if it has a job to do. I do not want to take the debate simply towards the actual life sentence. In fact, we can see that this is working in Britain, for example.In the very days, news of a particularly high-profile criminal case has been read that has reached the Hungarian media. It is also included in the decision, or the decision virtually precludes him from getting out of prison in his life. So there is practically life imprisonment there, as in other European countries, but this is already a legislative question of how Strasbourg can be persuaded. However, the Curia's decision on this matter is forward-looking. I would add that there were international trends or even decisions in Strasbourg in the other pan of the balance sheet, which had to be resisted under the law in force. So it is not possible to say here that a decision has been made only in some Hungarian domestic case, and it would be easier to make such decisions than in foreign exchange cases. So here, in the light of international trends and even a diverging resolution in Strasbourg, we had to stick to the right position based on Hungarian legislation. So it was a special pleasure to read this in this respect, and I must say that the same principle was the decision to violence against the members of the community, and the victims among the members of the majority society... - so that the victims of this crime could also be excluded from the majority society, it is also right that this was made public as a principle decision. For in many cases, just as minorities, members of the majority society, can be offended. And what, although mentioned by Mr President, is the five-day presentation in parking matters, is also a very good, forward-looking decision, and, of course, we believe that it was a decision based on legislation. Such decisions tell people that, yes, there is a judicial forum that can correct legal issues either against a regulation or even against a regulation in Budapest. So these are good messages anyway. I also welcome the trend, and it again appears year after year that the Curia - and this has already been published in civil criminal matters - thinks that in many cases the repeal will be made in place of the substantive decision and must be done against it. I am always happy to read this, because it is indeed a problem that increases practically the length of court proceedings and the burden of the courts to an amazing extent, because it would be possible to close a case faster if the substantive decision was made, even if it was not a hundred percent decision, even if we were ahead of it, as if a perfect decision was made ten years later, but it was no longer good for anyone, not for either party. This is also true in civil and criminal matters. However, turning to the area that is particularly painful for us, and here I have to speak in the voice of criticism, this is the question of foreign exchange-credit cases and the judicial practice that appears in them. This is the area which, I must say, has caused the Parliament and the Mansion the most damage in the sense that trust in the courts can easily be shaken by people and, in many cases, even more shaken than would be justified. [[10.00]] Thus, the loss of trust in a group is often perceived by citizens as having occurred in the whole court, since they may only be in contact with the judiciary in connection with these cases. Obviously, they don't have the view that they can judge that the court system is, in fact, if we look at all the cases, how it works. We can also see that the disproportionateness, as regards the relationship between the two parties, is not only in the decisions, they are not only in the ability to assert interest, but also in cases where, say, even a lawsuit cost is to be assessed, and this cannot be explained only by the fact that bank lawyers or the large law firms that are entrusted with it work better and more effectively, because we have seen cases, and I have already said one or two of them at committee meetings where, in practice, multiple litigation costs have been determined for work or similar work. And the papers also talked about cases - I will give you a simple example, although this is not yet final, but it points out to what extent the foreign exchange decisions practically affected the whole caselaw - so there are also cases where a decision was made before the decisions of the legal unit came out and the court finds invalidity at the end of 2013 in the specific case, otherwise not to appeal to the bank - they must have missed it, they must have ruined it. So, on 31 December 2013, the decision will be final, and then the decision of the Curia to bring an action against a condemned thing comes out, and this seems to be a bit strange in law, it could not be done in this form, and the strange thing is that the same court will take the action, which is the Szeged Tribunal. And see a miracle, though, in the first instance, but in addition to certain additions, it declares an action which has already been assessed and the decision has been made in it, with reference to the fact that the legal unity decision was made later, which clearly has nothing to do with an earlier final decision. And more importantly and interestingly, when the debtors won, 70,000 forints of litigation was assessed when the bank won, 1 million 700 thousand forints, if you can believe the news. By the way, I would suggest, if I could suggest to the President, that it may be necessary to consider that the practice of litigation is, if we just look at this part, how balanced and how well-built it is. This may also be a legislative issue, perhaps more precise legislation or regulations in this regard. I admit to you, I don't know, I don't see in this detail how decisions like this can be made, but that something is wrong, it's quite certain. For example, and this will be the other example that I would like to make, I have also heard a case from a colleague when he was judged to pay 444 thousand forints in court, also to a bank, in a foreign currency case, that he did not appear at the trial, that he did not have a counterclaim, or that, when he arrived, the trial had already been closed, so after receiving the judgment, the defence came to the lawyer. So there was no meaningful work in the case, and he was awarded 444 thousand forints in court. You can see that this is not right, and unfortunately, this seems to be tending, because I have said a few outstanding cases here, but unfortunately, these feedback shows that we can talk about trends here, which should be monitored. On the other hand, when, let's say, the debtors won mainly in the first instance, they did report lawsuit costs of 60 thousand to 70 thousand forints. I also have to say that if it were an argument, because we often hear that if everyone could either sue or open up or open up legal proceedings in foreign exchange cases, then everyone would go to court, it would be a burden that is unmanageable. I think that is not the case, but one or two strong judgments would force banks to try to settle out of court until we hear such things as, say, the payment of HUF 12 million in cash for a claim of HUF 15 million is not required, so we can also see that they are in the saddle. So the goal would not be at all to encourage everyone to sue; many lawyers do not. While, in cases - and this is an unfortunate feedback - when, let us say, there is no bank side, or the judge and the lawyer who represents the debtors meet in the hallway, there are often cases where, on the basis of information returned to me, the judges say that they can't judge otherwise; they agree with what is in the action, which, say, would condemn the banks, but they can't make any other decisions. Again, this is just a very painful feedback, and it shows that we have a lot to do to ensure that what the President has said is that judges at the lower levels should be subject only to their own professional decisions and not feel the pressure on themselves. And I must also point out, although it is personal, but it concerns the Curia, at the committee meeting I also said that there are many of the activities of György Wellmann, head of the Civic College, so we are not satisfied with what we see. Obviously, his judgment may be different for everyone, but many have considered that the letter of the Banking Association when a decision is called on to be made in the Curia, and, by the way, from the point of view of the debtors, the Banking Association is asking for a positive decision in the Kuria - György Wellmann - to be the head of the college - this has become a bad story, and unfortunately it has not increased confidence in the courts again. This was about the fact that the Banking Federation, for a decision in Curia, said in fact that it was an illegal decision, that it could serve as a dangerous precedent, and that something should be done - so that the letter could be simplified. And what's strange is that the head of the college responded that he himself did not think so, and he does not regard it as a guide, and he makes sure that it does not appear on the Curia's website; and the judgmental council that did so will continue to insist on the earlier resolution of the legal unit. Obviously, I do not think that it can be said that this is okay and that even a head of the college could arbitraryly decide that such a step should be taken. And then President Darák said that this was followed by a legal unit procedure. That is indeed true, but I believe that the legal unit procedure should have been born instead of this letter. In fact, the legal unity procedure, if I am well aware, if there are a sufficient number of decisions available and they are different, then it is possible, in fact, to conduct such a procedure decisively, but to make a decision and act as if it were not, and then to write a letter to the Banking Association, and then to initiate a legal unity procedure, I think, in this form not only that it is not fortunate, but also not appropriate. By the way, it was him, and we have to tell you this, because he appeared in the Hungarian Nation, who, in a conversation with journalists, said that he would not necessarily call lawyers those who represent foreign exchange-credit debtors in court. Again, this is more than an unfortunate statement under any circumstances. I must think that if a college head says that, it destroys not only his own credibility, but also the entire Curia, and therefore the confidence in the entire court system. All the more so as to point out why this should not be done because the reference is 6/2013. cases of legal unit decisions are not applicable in a large number of contractual relations. [[10.10]] By the way, that is what we came up with at the Committee on Justice, and President Darák, if I made a good note of it, admitted that it was obviously a very complicated relationship and a lot of contracts. Some estimates suggest that around 400 financial institutions have granted foreign exchange loans or similar loans, which are approximately 700 contractual terms, for which this is around 6/2013. Legal unit decision, let's say, three or four financial institutions, but even if the estimates are bigger than that, it cannot be said that it would cover all financial institutions - it cannot extend. It is for the court to examine whether a decision, whether it is a decision of a legal unit or whether or not the legislation applies in the case in question. Therefore, it is not that everything in which the word foreign currency credit is used would have become valid if such a decision had been made. As a result, I do not think that a head of the college can decide, arbitraryly, by looking at it - it seemed that this was born in this form - in what form that one decision corresponds or should be removed from the Curia's website or to what extent it is considered to be a measure. This must be done by the judgmental advice which has taken the decision in this case. So that's why we don't think it's right that this could happen. As I said, regarding the statement to journalists - and this was also published in the Hungarian Nation - this is completely unacceptable in this form, and I have to say that, to the west of us, it would certainly have to have been more serious consistency if, in the case of a chief judge, and I must say, the chief of civil affairs justice, such a decision had been made from the principal professional actor of civil justice, and, as I said, this does not support the fact that, in practice, equality of arms could be achieved on the side of debtors and banks, and this is definitely a bad message. Nevertheless, because the time is fast, and there is much more to talk about, I think that the possibility of correction would now be at the National Assembly, if it could still be done, in any case and always, and we should finally face the fundamental issues that have been in the air ever since. And even though we have heard from the pro-government benches that the issue of foreign exchange loans has been resolved, it has not been resolved, otherwise there are still a lot of lawsuits going on, although they are trying to get rid of it - the government and unfortunately the courts - but I have to say that even the simple question has not been clarified, and this is a continuous, eternal question in this matter of whether the banks have proved at all that what they are claiming as foreign currency loans have been imported into the country in foreign currency, or that they have used it in any way as refinancing from other foreign banks or foreign currency sources. Because if you are not so much, then it is absolutely clear that their losses cannot be so great, and when you look at the other half, litigation and people, when they are trying to prove that there was a currency-based credit or not, then only half of them are what it is legally to be judged - a lot of debates, as I said, and legislative amendments were made, not for debtors' sake - but the other half is what the reality actually shows: whether these funds came into Hungary in foreign currency or not. The answer is also there, because the Hungarian National Bank has excellent statements: one fifth of it actually came into Hungary in foreign currency compared to what banks claim as foreign currency loans. So this huge, insufferable scam should be revealed and faced with this thing at some point. As I said, we wouldn't have expected this complete confrontation from the Curia, much more from the government, but if the Curia had already been tasked with this, and decisions had been made, we would have had to say and say our criticisms, and I am sorry - as a closing word - because if these cases hadn't been taken to the Curia, then I must say that we could have supported the report with a calm heart. So professionally, there was no problem with the rest, so I'm really sorry, because really, if that had been achieved [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] that would have been even more supportive. Nevertheless, we hold our opinions and thank the President very much for the report. [[Dr. Csaba Gyüre applauds.]]
u2016-12-07-12	Thank you very much, Congressman. This brings us to the end of the keynote speeches. It is now possible to make two-minute speeches. [[There's no candidate.]] I don't see any contact. Then I would like to address Mr Gergely Bárándy from the MSZP Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2016-12-07-13	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear President of the Curia, Mr Vice President, Ladies and gentlemen, I will also start with what my fellow Member Teleki and perhaps more today thank you for the work of all the judges and judicial staff of the Curia. I think that this has been done exemplaryly in 2015 too, and I would ask that you do so if you could do the same in the future. My fellow Member, László Teleki, said that, and I do not wish to repeat this, which arguments are the main reasons why we support the President's report. Which is why I can be quite brief, for example, because not only the report was convincing, but also the answers that the President gave to the questions of his representatives in the Committee on Justice; there we talked about this much longer, and I think that we have received satisfactory and acceptable answers, which is why we now have much easier things to do here in plenary. I would like to respond to two things that have been said in this debate. To be honest, I can only appreciate it as a self-certification from President Tünde Hando yesterday, and now also from Congressman Répássy, President Rubovszky, that the new court system is constantly being praised and praised. I think that in this debate, especially in the Curia account, there is no need for this. There's no need for that, because that's not what today's debate is about. Even if it comes up at the OBH, I understand, because there is indeed a question of judicial administration, but here today, today, on this debate, it is specifically about a more limited examination of the work of the Curia, which is required by the law. It is also interesting because we are practically repeating over and over again the arguments we have made about the new court system, which we have already said a hundred times. I do not wish to do this, and I am just referring to what I said when I adopted yesterday's report on the same subject: it could be very long - as I did then - why I think this administration is not good and why it has not worked. On the other hand, as far as the mansion is concerned, I think maybe one or two sentences fit here. One is that it is a matter of taste whether these two functions are separated or not. I have been a member of the OIT for almost four years, as Congressman Rubovszky has done, and I tell you frankly that there is such an extraordinary turn in the current operation of the Curia compared to what was then at the Supreme Court, I do not see very much. Because - not taking away the President's personal authority, by the way, and not taking away the extraordinary professional knowledge of the President, but also - this was true, and still today, that his professional activity is basically taking place in the colleges, and there is too much change in it. Even then, the civil, criminal and administrative college determined what legal unit decisions were made, the legal unit councils made these decisions, these councils still make these decisions today, not the President of the Curia or the President of the Supreme Court. [[10.20]] So I think we didn't notice such a breakthrough change in that, thank God, it worked well then, and it works well today. Once again, it is a matter of taste whether these two functions are separated. Neither did our criticisms of the court system aim to separate these two functions from each other. We had these ideas, too, and there's no problem with that. The problem was that you wanted to create an external management position without virtually one-man constraints. Thank God, the EU had so many life instincts that it wouldn't let that happen. That was the subject of criticism. As far as the Curia is concerned, only one is how the President of the Curia was moved by you. Obviously, this has been confirmed by the Court of Strasbourg, its Grand Chamber, since then, that this was completely illegal and that we can pay compensation to the former President. But I think once again that it is a pity to have this debate again here in Parliament. What concerns Mr Répássy's speech is yet to be discussed, and it is indeed worth discussing, whether it should be left to the violation of the law, whether a judicial council or a judge should insist or not. I believe, of course, that I am in Parliament, too, that it is possible to talk about everything, but perhaps this is indeed an internal professional issue. I think so only because the higher courts, especially the Curia, have a number of options that make it compulsory to determine the content or the content of a subsequent judgment; I am thinking here that from the point of view that, let us say, it may impose certain obligations of proof, up to the point that the Curia may make a decision on a legal unit, which will effectively be binding on the lower courts. So if the Curia sees that to be justified, then it will make that decision. If the case-law analysis groups within the OBH see this as the right thing to do, they will obviously deal with this. But I believe, and I share the position of all those who have said so, that in itself the freedom of the judge to decide cannot be influenced. There are no limits to judicial independence in this regard - and I am arguing with Mr Répássy in this regard. Judicial independence is unlimited, as long as it is not contrary to the law, until it is contrary to the Curia's binding decisions. And since we can clearly only subjectively judge what is contrary to the law, we can again conclude that if this does not please, and if some practice or some kind of decision-making practice does not please the Curia, then make a binding decision about it or a decision that will at least guide the judges in a certain direction, which he sees as necessary. But I find it very dangerous to question it and to say in any way whatsoever that there would otherwise be any limit to judicial independence. So, ladies and gentlemen, with these comments, which have actually responded only to what was said in the debate, I would also like to confirm the position that my fellow Member, László Teleki, has already made clear that the 2015 report of the Curia will be supported by the Group of the Hungarian Socialist Party and thank you for the work of all those who made it possible to do so. Thank you very much.
u2016-12-07-14	Thank you very much, Congressman. I will ask my fellow Members if anyone else wishes to speak in the debate. [[No signal.]] I don't see any contact. The joint general debate is closed. I will ask President Peter Darák if he wishes to respond to what has been said in the debate. [[On Dr. Peter Darák's signal:]] You can do that, Mr. President. Here you go, Mr. President. You have the floor.
u2016-12-07-15	[[His mic's not on.]] Dear Parliament, Thank you for your comments on the assessment of the case-law analysis. I consider the case law analysis to be an important element of the Curia's legal unit work. We have carried out a number of case-law analyses which, in addition to the thematic examination, wanted to give a general explanation of the dysfunctional phenomena to the case-law, such as the issue of repealing practice. However, there is a research programme in progress that provides a definite affirmative response to the point that the Member mentioned, namely that there are systemic differences in the case-law. According to an initial research hypothesis, we will examine the Homogenity of punishment practices in relation to territorial differences and will examine whether the difference in punishment practices for crimes of the same status does not go beyond a constitutional threshold.
u2016-12-07-16	My apologies, Mr. President, you didn't put your microphone on.
u2016-12-07-17	Then I'll just get tired.
u2016-12-07-18	Here you go.
u2016-12-07-19	Thank you very much. I thank the Member of the Group for his statement that links the work of the Curia with a kind of professional approach. Thank you for the detailed comments on how to deal with the issue of the foreign exchange credit group, the foreign exchange credit issue. I would like to assure you, Member, that the Curia is trying with decency to fulfil its responsibilities, and in this we have found some confirmation in the judgment of the Court of Justice of the European Union, and that they continue to appeal to us with confidence, even by foreign exchange authentic representation bodies, and ask me to give them the opportunity to express their professional opinion. One way I found this was by asking the president of the Hungarian Law Association to provide a forum for such a professional discussion. I must add that the foreign exchange authentic case has not been closed, there are cases pending, and legal solutions are forming and developing day by day in individual lawsuits. Of course, we are not in a position to discuss all the details of the foreign exchange credit problem. I fully agree with Mr President that he is not satisfied with the staff of the Curia. I very much appreciate and respect the life, professionalism and career of my colleagues, but I am not entirely satisfied with the cooperation of any of my colleagues. If that were the case, we would not be able to move forward in developing appropriate solutions to social problems. I would like to assure the public seeking rights that the Curia seeks to establish the position of gun equality in all aspects of court proceedings, it would be contrary to the constitutional role of the Curia if this principle were to be violated in any way. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2016-12-07-20	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I will ask President György Rubovszky if he wishes to comment on what has been said in the debate on behalf of the Justice Committee. [[On Dr. György Rubovszky's mark:]] Yeah. Here you go, Mr. President.
u2016-12-07-21	Yeah. Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, I didn't understand Jobbik's absence at the committee meeting. I didn't understand it after today's hearing. [[Dr. Gábor Staudt: It's bad enough!]] We listened to the dissatisfaction with the government, we listened to the dissatisfaction with Parliament, we listened to the dissatisfaction with the lower courts, and we heard from Jobbik that the Curia was acting as carefully as possible. [[Dr. Gábor Staudt: I didn't say that!]] After what has been said, President Péter Darák has also answered the question on the issue of foreign exchange lenders. To the intervention that you did not say that, honourable Member, at the committee meeting, you also said that the head of the college made critical remarks against one of the judgments and that this was a big mistake. There, too, the President gave an exhaustive answer, and the Curia did what it could. I don't understand this criticism. I continue to ask that the Honourable Parliament please accept this report with as much support as possible. Thank you very much. [[It's a rare round of applause from the pro-government ranks.]]
u2016-12-07-22	Thank you very much, Congressman. I would just like to point out that the vote of representatives is a sovereign right. [[Dr. Gábor Staudt: Yes!]] [[10.30]] The proposal for a decision may be submitted by 16 a.m. on Thursday. Dear Parliament, The report on the activities of the Public Prosecutor's Office in 2015 and the joint general debate on the proposal for a decision on its adoption will now follow until closure. The report submitted by the Attorney General B/11709, and the proposal for a decision submitted by the Judicial Committee, H/12932. Number 2 is available on the Parliament's IT network. Welcome, Mr. Attorney General, to the Deputy Attorney General and his colleagues, who have appeared here today. First, I give the floor to Attorney General Péter Polt, the author of the report, within a 30-minute time frame, who will present his report here on the pulpit. We'll wait for the Attorney General to come up to the stand. Mr. Attorney General, you have the floor.
u2016-12-07-23	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr President, Dear House, It is my honour to repeat this year's oral amendment to the report submitted before this House. Hungary's Fundamental Law places important tasks on the prosecution, since the prosecution is the sole representative of the state's criminal claim and performs the tasks that the Fundamental Law and other laws still impose on it. If I may, I would like to begin my oral amendment by enforcing criminal law, so I would like to say a few words about the prosecution's criminal activities. The prosecution's criminal activity is closely linked to the fact that in 2015 the number of registered offences decreased by almost 15 percent, and accordingly the number of registered offenders also decreased in a direct proportion. I think that this indicator in itself is an indicator of the success of the activities of the previous years. The reduction in the number of criminal offences affected all important categories of criminal offences. It is therefore necessary to highlight in particular the reduction in the number of thefts, the reduction in the number of manslaughters, the reduction in the number of criminal offences related to the document or the reduction in the number of copyright infringements, also because the number of offences in these categories has decreased in excess of the average. Unfortunately, there are categories of crime in which there has been an increase in addition to the overall trend of decline. It's human trafficking. The reason for this is obviously mass migration. Trafficking nearly doubled in 2015, 662 of these cases were registered. At the same time, there has been an increase in the number of economic crimes, and it should also be said here that there have been several cases in which there has been a high crime value of up to billions. This also indicates a trend that, although the number of crimes is decreasing, the methods of crime are becoming more sophisticated, the difficulties of detection are increasing. With regard to economic crimes, it should be noted that cross-border crime is also making the detection of these crimes difficult. The prosecutor's organisation can handle these actions through EU cooperation in criminal matters. It is very important, I will also mention here, I will also mention the establishment of joint investigation teams, which are very successful. The law on criminal proceedings also empowers the prosecution to conduct an investigation, and there are crimes which fall within the sole investigative competence of the prosecutor. The investigations are conducted by the prosecutor's investigating bodies, the Central Investigator's Attorney General and its regional bodies, and the investigating and district attorneys' offices organised by the county. According to the general trend, in 2015, the prosecution's investigative bodies received 25 percent less reports, compared with a moderate decrease in the number of investigations ordered, with 10 percent less investigations being carried out. There is also a downward trend in investigative and prosecution activities. However, it should also be noted that we have seen a significantly smaller reduction here than we have in terms of the number of offences. This can be traced back to the fact that I mentioned earlier that crimes have become partly more complicated. However, the number of cases registered and pending in this round in 2015 has decreased. A little over 409,000 documents have been received from the investigating authorities. The reduction in the number of criminal offences is therefore mainly in relation to simple criminal offences and, as a consequence, the reduction in the number of increased supervision applied by the prosecutor's office is much lower and the above-mentioned trend has also led to an increase in the number of substantive prosecutors' measures taken in this area. Therefore, the prosecutor played a more active role in the supervision and management of investigations in 2015 than previously, despite the fact that fewer cases had to be handled. It is necessary to mention again the most serious emergency measure, the arrest in advance. Here's an indicator worth highlighting. The court found the vast majority, almost 88 percent, of our proposals in this regard to be thorough and ordered a preliminary arrest. This is also important because, in such cases, the investigating judge may decide not only to use the coercion, but also to have reasonable suspicion. If you order the preview, I'm sure you'll have the probable cause. One of the most important tasks of the DA's office is public prosecutor's duty. In doing so, a decision must be made on the charge. In this area, however, the reduction in the number of crimes was barely noticeable, and I can only account for a 3 percent decrease. In 2015, 116 439 cases had to be decided, about half of the cases were decided by the prosecutor's organisation to press charges, the other half had to be terminated, or other measures, usually an investigation, were carried out. One of the most important factors in the 2015 activity was the simplification and acceleration of criminal proceedings. This has been a priority for years, and I feel that we have achieved very significant results in this area in 2015. In this context, in many cases, 4633 of the cases brought forward by the indictment proposal, we referred the case to a mediation procedure. This exceeded such a figure in 2014. We have also made use of further possibilities of avoiding the course of the court, eliminating the investigation by means of reprimands, avoiding indictment in part and delaying prosecutions. [[10.40]] I must say that the speeding-up measures concerning the court also proved to be extremely successful in 2015. Although the number of court proceedings has been reduced, it is still considered to be a very high proportion. Such an initiative took place in 19 percent of all indictments, and, at the same time, there was an extremely, relatively extraordinary increase in the number of people held accountable without a hearing, thus continuing the trend that began in previous years. This is the process-accelerating measure with which the reduction of the court burden and the parallel reduction of the court backlog are most closely linked. I would like to say that we have carried out an investigation in this regard, and that there is a direct correlation, correlation between the introduction of measures to simplify the prosecution's speeding up and procedure, the increase in their number and the reduction in the judicial burden and backlog, there are virtually the same statistical indicators that characterize the two activities. So the prosecutor's office has gained fundamental merit in our view that the directly affecting and extremely important indicator of the public has become much more favourable in this regard in recent years. In 2015, the trend that we thought was very important was that we drew away the wealth obtained through crime as much as possible. This has primarily been reflected in the reduction of money laundering and in the recovery of assets. We conducted an important investigation, including two in 2015. One was in conjunction with the Committee of Experts on Money Laundering and Terrorist Financing, in the context of its national investigation, and the other was an examination of the experience of forced measures for the recovery of assets in the context of economic crimes. Both of them have produced very important results, and as a result we have given detailed guidance, with which we were able to move forward in 2016, I think. I must say that there is a need for further action in this area, and I believe that this is a very important area for combating crime. The decrease in the number of registered crimes was also reflected in the activity before the criminal court in 2015. The number of accused persons also decreased, and accordingly the number of accused persons affected by the final decisions of the courts also decreased. This only partly led to a reduction in the prosecutor's negotiating duties. This item is true for courts at district and district level, but not for second-degree proceedings. At second instance, the participation of the prosecutor was the same size as in previous years. And the proportion of cases where there is no compulsory public prosecutor participation is not insignificant, but in 2015 the prosecutor took part in the court proceedings, namely: in a public meeting where he personally represented his position. In proportion to the decrease in the number of accused persons, the number of prisoners who were convicted of punishment or measure also decreased, while the percentage of penalties and measures remained unchanged, with a penalty rate of more than 80% in 2015. One figure should be highlighted here: the number of people sentenced to life imprisonment increased in 2015 from 27 in 2014 to 39. Most often, the court continued to impose a permanent sentence. Within this, the rates did not change; essentially, one third of the prison sentences were to be carried out and two thirds of the prison sentences suspended in their execution. The practice of punishing courts has been, for many years, considered to be mild in my report, too. This also means a fall from the mid-rate. In order to influence this, the prosecutor's office has an important tool, an appeal for aggravated punishment, and, mutatis mutandis, in 2015, the prosecutor's office, despite the decrease in volume of quantitative negotiations, was barely absent from the previous period and even slightly increased. However, I would add that the effectiveness of this is still not very high in efficiency, and even decreased in 2015. Further efforts are needed in this area. The indictment is still positive. In 2014, it was 96.6%, and in 2015 it was 97.3 percent. Before anyone agrees to a more detailed discussion of this, I would like to say that I personally do not attach much importance to this, but it is still a positive figure. In order to ensure uniform application of the law, the activities of the Public Prosecutor's Office during the year concerned were important. The number of statements made in the case under review has increased, and their effectiveness is also positive. A few words about prosecution outside criminal law, especially now in the field of public interest protection. Here is the characteristic of the prosecutor's activity that, in order to eliminate the breach of law, the prosecutor does not have decisive jurisdiction or, if his position is not accepted, the prosecutor has the right to appeal to the court. In general, if you look at the number of appeals to the court, this does not give you a complete picture without looking at whether or not the infringement of the law which gives rise to legal action will be eliminated by the infringers in the preparation of the action. There was a tendency in 2015 that, very often, in the prosecution's call, the lawbreakers themselves eliminated the violations and therefore there was no need to bring an action. In the field of public interest protection, however, the case-martial was reduced, but not to that extent, as in the case of criminal proceedings. However, there was also a tendency here, as I mentioned in the case of increased supervision, to counter the decline in the number of prosecutorial measures, which increased by 148 percent. In the field of public interest protection, the vast majority of arrivals remain in infringement cases. Let me highlight one area here: control of the legality of administrative decisions relating to land ownership. In this, 79 calls were made, and in all cases the call for a prosecutor was effective. [[10.50]] I would also like to mention your actions to the prosecutor about the unfairness of the standard contract terms. In such cases, 11 lawsuits were launched in areas such as webshops, retail companies, telecommunications service providers. The purpose of these lawsuits is to establish nullity and to prohibit the undertaking. We consider it very important, because it directly affects many people, by ordering a distance to reduce and prevent violence between relatives, in which more than a thousand legal proceedings have been brought by the prosecutor for the benefit of the abused. The D.A.'s office is also paying particular attention to the protection of children and minors. Then we used a sign in six hundred cases in the departments responsible for family security coordination. Public prosecutor's work in reliability investigations is very important from outside criminal law. This is to reduce corruption. In 2015, the prosecutor approved 26 percent more reliability investigations. A few words about the specialty of prison. The work of this field was fundamentally influenced by the entry into force in 2015 of a new Code of Criminal Enforcement, a modern law and a European standard. This also required the creation of a new general prosecutor's order, which has also taken place. In 2015, this specialized work was characterised by significant activity. Only one piece of data on this: 20.3 percent more complaints or requests were received from prosecutors, which had to be investigated in this area, and the number of other investigations increased similarly. A total of 9271 investigations were carried out by the D.A. in 2014, which was only 8285. I should also mention here that there has been a noticeable increase in the number of people detained in the context of illegal migration. A few words on the exercise of the powers of the Attorney General. We're here in Parliament, so that's what you want. In 2015, Parliamentary Members addressed 46 written questions, 14 immediate questions and 5 oral questions to the Attorney General, all of which were carried out in accordance with the law and in a timely manner. The role of the Attorney General for legality is very important. It also has a special means of providing legal remedies. The number of such remedies increased in 2015. This occurred in 26 cases, only 9 cases in 2014, i.e. a significant increase. The Curia has ruled on 11 of these proposals, and has sustained all 11. I think that's a very good ratio. And I would also like to say that 44 percent of all the extraordinary remedies submitted by the D.A. were in the interest of the defendant. This also shows that the prosecutor does not act simply for the sake of the state, for the purpose of enforcing the criminal demand, but is also responsible and obliged to find out the material truth. A few sentences about our international activity. The international activity of the Hungarian Public Prosecutor's Office is extremely intense. This has focused on the European Union, but we also have very good relations with countries outside the EU. These professional relationships are primarily linked to exchanges of experience and training. Personal relations with several countries are also ongoing, which can always be seen as strengthening confidence. The public prosecutor's communications are all we're trying to do is communicate proactively. Information is continuous and we strive to be complete in relation to the possibilities of the Criminal Procedure Act. We consider it very important for the public to get a credible picture of the prosecution's work, the cases that we have. By the way, let me point out that, according to Median's assessment, the trust index of the prosecution and the court has evolved in the same way in recent years. I would add that from 2015 to 2016, although this is not the reporting period, the confidence index has also increased by 3 percent. Let me just say that the number of people allowed by law is sufficient to handle the case. Something has been reduced in the number of authorised posts in 2015, and there has been a certain 8 percent shortage of staff. The economic conditions for the functioning of the Public Prosecutor's Office were given in 2015, and the structure of resources is virtually unchanged over a decade. Support is usually the source. There is very little use of appropriations and almost negligible own revenue. The vast majority of appropriations used are expenditure of a personal nature and related contributions. Dear Parliament, In short, this is what I wanted to add to the much more detailed report submitted in writing. In summary, allow me to say that I believe that in 2015 the Hungarian prosecutor's organisation did a legitimate and effective job, and on this basis it can also be said that the prosecutor's office fulfilled the expectations which the rule of law could have against it. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-12-07-24	Thank you very much, Mr. Attorney General. I now give the floor to Mr. György Rubovszky, President of the Judicial Committee, rapporteur of the motion for a decision, within a 30-minute time frame. Here you go, Congressman.
u2016-12-07-25	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen of the Attorney General, Dear Parliament, The Justice Committee discussed the report on 15 November. We have received a very detailed report and the detailed report, as in this plenary session, has been supplemented by additions by the Attorney General. I have mentioned it before, but I repeat now that the Commission's hearing is first being asked by the Members, to which the party hearing answers, in this case the Prosecutor General and, after the reply, the opinions will be delivered. In my view and in the opinion of the majority, the main prosecutor gave an exhaustive and correct answer to the questions raised during the Commission's hearing, and the support for the proposal for a decision is therefore to a certain extent a surprise. I can't tell you what the President of the Curia's report said, that it was almost unanimous, that it was only pro-government support. The proposal for a resolution, which is actually about proposing the adoption of the report to Parliament, was supported by 7 votes in favour and 4 in most pain. Here, the objections that were raised at the Commission's hearing, and even the scope of these objections, are likely to be extended, will obviously be heard again during the main speeches. [[President Tamás Sneider, Vice-President of the National Assembly.]] I dare hope that Attorney General Péter Polt will be able to give an appropriate answer to the objections raised here. Nevertheless, I am asking the opposition, first of all, to reconsider their previous decision and, as far as possible, to support the parliamentary resolution proposal as possible. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] [[11.00]]
u2016-12-07-26	Welcome, fellow Members. First, I would like to ask Mr Pál Völner, State Secretary, if he would like to comment now. [[Dr. Völner on Pál's signal:]] It says no. Ladies and gentlemen, It is now time for the speeches by its representatives. In the first round, keynote speeches will take place in a 30-30-minute timeframe. I give the floor first to István Vitányi, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group.
u2016-12-07-27	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen of the Attorney General, Dear Colleagues, Ladies and gentlemen, Allow me first of all to note that some data will be repeated in the report, since we have worked on the same material, and perhaps even considered it important to highlight the same things that the Attorney General has already presented in his oral supplement. In view of Article 29 ( 5) of the Fundamental Law, Dr. Péter Polt submitted to Parliament a report on the activities of the Public Prosecutor's Office in 2015. The Justice Committee, as a committee responsible for tasks and powers, discussed the report, as my fellow Member Rubovszky mentioned, on 15 November 2016, and supported the adoption of the report against 7 yes and 4 no and without abstention. As a consequence, the Judicial Committee is set out in Annex B/11709. Report No 84 of the Rules of Procedure of the House of Decisions In the proposal for a resolution submitted pursuant to § 2 (2) of the Act, the Parliament is recommended to accept it. Dear House, Please allow me to summarise in a few sentences the report on the activities of the High Prosecutor's Office last year. The Attorney General has supplemented the written information orally during the committee meeting, which we were able to hear at that time and now during the plenary session. In my speech, I will focus mainly on criminal activity, then on speeding up procedures, thirdly on international cooperation, as well as on the impact of migration on the prosecutor's office, and not least on the personal situation and the development of IT conditions. Before I mention the main points mentioned, allow me to give a broad summary of the role of the prosecution. The Public Prosecutor's Office is a protector of the public interest, thereby contributing to the enforcement of individual rights. The Public Prosecutor's Office is, under the Fundamental Law, the sole enforcer of the State's criminal needs and, in addition, carries out the tasks which are still entrusted to it by law. Accordingly, its main profile is in criminal matters and it also carries out public law activities. Dear House, I would like to draw my fellow Members' attention to the prosecution's criminal activity last year. The report shows that for years there has been a downward trend in the number of crimes, which decreased in 2015. Significantly, as we have heard, the number of registered crimes has decreased by about 15 percent, and this is also directly proportional to the decline in the number of registered offenders. The reduction in the number of criminal offences can be seen in almost all relevant categories of criminal offences. It is noted that there has been a decrease in the number of thefts, counterfeiting, copyright or copyright-related crimes, and I am very pleased to indicate that the number of homicides has also been reported. Unfortunately, there is an increase in one area, which was also highlighted by the Attorney General's oral supplement: this is a major crime caused by mass migration, and human trafficking has nearly doubled compared to 2014. Dear House, The D.A.'s office has made a significant contribution to working back on court cases. In this context, it should be noted that participation in court proceedings remains a major burden for the prosecutor, despite the fact that in 2015 the negotiating tasks of the prosecutor were reduced at district level. There are several instruments available to speed up proceedings, such as non-negotiation, indictment, prosecution. Of the accelerated measures for criminal proceedings in the area of the criminal court, the waiver of the trial and the proceedings in the absence of the defendant hardly apply. A possible re-codification of these acceleration measures should be considered and considered, while, in the context of court proceedings or in the absence of a hearing, a decision has been taken in the event of 34.9 percent of the defendants. This shows that these two legal institutions complement each other well serve the purpose of speeding up court proceedings. Dear House, In 2015, the Supreme Public Prosecutor's Office carried out significant international activities. The situation in Europe certainly justifies increased cooperation between national prosecutors and relevant EU bodies, including, of course, cooperation between national prosecutors. As you know, the European Union faces major challenges: terrorism, organised crime, cybercrime and radicalisation are all at the forefront of the political agenda. Within the Union and the Schengen area, each Member State's security is almost by default the internal security of all Member States. It is therefore necessary for Member States to cooperate, to exchange relevant information without delay and to improve joint analysis and operational coordination. On 28 November 2007 I participated in an interparlamental meeting on the subject of Europol and its parliamentary control in the context of the EU's internal security policy, and these issues were also discussed. In view of all this, the fight against organised crime and other adverse global phenomena across national borders in recent years has led to an increase in the intensity of international cooperation between judicial authorities, including prosecutors. I would like to emphasise the development of exemplary cooperation with the co-governments of the EU Member States concerned in the case of the detection of a case involving multiple trafficking in human beings, which is a major contribution to the detection of all aspects of a series of extremely serious crimes. As an example, his cooperation with Austria in the case of the death of 71 migrants, where the Hungarian Public Prosecutor's Office continued to exchange information with the Austrian authorities, and then, accepting the initiative of the Attorney General, the Federal Ministry of Justice of the Republic of Austria to transfer criminal proceedings, decided to take over the investigation launched in Austria. Dear House, Eurojust is the Agency for Criminal Judicial Cooperation between the Member States of the European Union. Its task is to support the fight against serious cross-border crime, in particular organised crime, the coordination of criminal proceedings in the Member States, the fulfilment of requests for judicial cooperation and the implementation of decisions based on the principle of mutual recognition. Hungary has been a member of Eurojust since 2004 and its participation tasks have been fulfilled by the Public Prosecutor's Office. Overall, one of the most important results of the cooperation is that in 2015, with the participation of domestic prosecutors, five new joint investigation teams were agreed by the main prosecutor with the exclusive right to do so. In view of what has been said, the prosecution's international activity has recently increased and has met this challenge. Dear House, I think that the most important challenge of this year was also a rapid and effective solution to criminal matters related to the management of mass immigration in criminal courts. Last year's amendments to the law affected Btk. and Be. on several points, resulting in the codification of three new crimes: the illicit crossing of the border lock, the damage to the border lock and the obstruction of construction work on the border lock. However, as a result of the legislative amendment, problems have been encountered in practice and the heads of three criminal law departments of the Supreme Public Prosecutor's Office have given joint guidance. The guidelines dealt significantly with penalties that could be imposed, key procedural issues, as well as information on the conditions for bringing them to court in connection with the new crime, on the outline and assessment of the crisis caused by mass immigration, and on the use of interpreters. In addition, the creation of personal, physical and logistical conditions, which the prosecution has successfully resolved, is certainly not negligible. With figures, I would like to highlight the following. Between 15 September and 31 December 2015, 908 offenders were registered for the illegal crossing of the border lock. [[11.10]] In 796 cases, the investigation was closed by indictment, 772 cases were brought to court in an accelerated procedure, 24 indictments were filed. In 755 cases, the court ruled the defendant's guilt to be final, 41 cases were not brought to an end. For damage to the border lock, 22 unsubs were registered. In addition, the D.A.'s office has gained inexorable merit in creating a legal border closure. A few words about personnel. The Attorney General also mentioned that there is a certain shortage of staff in the prosecutor's office of 8.2 percent, but it was successfully bridged in 2015. It is very important that further training is provided to prosecutors, which is also provided at international level by the Public Prosecutor's Education Centre. With regard to the development of IT conditions, the operation of remote data transmission networks is becoming more and more modern. In 2014, more than half of the prosecutors already had a secure signatory tool. Ladies and gentlemen, In the light of the above, it can be said that the prosecutor's office met the challenges posed by developments in the changing legislative environment and the different living conditions in 2015. Finally, I would like to thank all the prosecutors for their activities in 2015, and I would like to ask my fellow Members to support and accept this report. Dear House, I can't just stand by and say, based on last year's experience, a slight remark. Last year, I listened to comments from the benches of opposition representatives, especially from the benches of the MSZP - if not now, I apologize in the first place - the prosecutor's report has turned into a trade union legal assistance service, because their individual cases and grievances have been brought up by Members, or they have transformed into a TV show, a name show, who should be closed, who should be released. I hope this will not happen this year and it will indeed be about the prosecution's accounts for 2015. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-12-07-28	Thank you. The MSZP group indicated that two speakers would present the group's position. In this context, I give the floor to Mr Gergely Bárándy for the first time.
u2016-12-07-29	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Mr. Attorney General. My fellow Member! Congressman Vitányi feels the trouble, yes, there is. [[Depreciation and interruptions.]] Although this time I can no doubt be shorter than usual, unfortunately nothing has changed in the way the prosecution has done. As with my speeches as a keynote speaker in previous reports, I am obliged to address two prosecutors separately. First of all, on behalf of myself and my faction, I would like to thank thousands of prosecutors and not prosecutors for their work in 2015. I would like to thank you for contributing to the maintenance of our common security, to the persecution of crime, to the prosecution in the courts, to the participation and supervision of investigations, and to the involvement of prosecutors in civil matters in the interests of legal certainty. The numbers that the Attorney General reported in writing and verbally praise their work. Thank you for that. However, there is another part, an extremely small set of public prosecutors, which is subject to a completely different assessment. I claim that some of the lower-ranking confidants of the DA's senior management and senior management are a contemporary XXI. He is not a minister, but a pillar of the dictatorship of the century, not an aide to the regime, but a fundamental building block of the regime. Even in the past, but still today, every regime that needs it can find its own comrades, even though they today have a family name referring to other occupations. Many of us know who was involved in this process, and we will make sure that it is not forgotten for you even when you would be happy to do so in a decade or two. Their method has two branches, and I'm not going to say anything new. One of them is that it conducts conceptual procedures, precisely timed to political events against opposition politicians, built up in the press by professional communication techniques, in order to promote the Fidesz electoral victories. In these cases, the court now finds in succession that there is room for dismissal, in the period covered by the report, in 2015 for two; and we already know that in 2016, new ones joined the long line. But I'm not running ahead so that Mr. President doesn't have to warn you about this, so we'll talk about those at the 2016 report. In this context, however, it is extremely talkative that the Curia, just this year, thought that a judicial decision in principle was necessary to issue a legal charge. To put it another way, the prosecution has to give guidance on the content of the charge, although the concept of legal prosecution is not a new provision, it has been part of the Criminal Procedure Act for many decades, we have learned the same thing for 20 years, and it is being taught the same thing now. What, then, is the reason why this decision was now needed? Why now? I asked the President of the Curia about this, and he did not answer any of the many questions; obviously not by accident. Yet, he could not say - he had so much loyalty to the prosecution - that because the prosecution had repeatedly filed indictments which did not meet this requirement, he could not say so, and somehow this phenomenon had to be prevented. But what is the cause of this phenomenon? In four years, the professional skills of prosecutors have gone down that bad? I don't think so. Rather, their superiors instruct them to make unfounded accusations. Well, it must be stopped, and I am convinced that the Curia's decision also warns that this is untenable. The other branch is that the prosecutor's office facilitates state corruption through mafia methods by not doing anything about these clearly and demonstrably suspected corruption cases. Another way is that, when the situation becomes untenable - see the case of Antal Rogán - he will initiate the procedure in order to calm the public, and then, when the public mood is about calmed down, he will quietly put an end to it. But this is even better than the case of István Nyakó, when, following a complaint by the NVB and NTI, the proceedings against the order of the referendum were terminated in the absence of a criminal offence. First, the investigating authority made fun of themselves by not being able to identify the perpetrators, bald thugs, of whom the media had written their dog's name long ago, let alone their own, or even their record. Then, according to the Curia, NVB, NVI, István Nyakó was blocked at the launch of his initiative. The relevant part of the law, I quote, is that anyone obstructing the rightholder in the referendum initiative is committing a crime. Of course, only the blind man couldn't see that István Nyakó was obstructed, and the D.A.'s office didn't think there was a crime. Right? What they did, on the other hand, is clearly called a misdemeanor of office. And if there's a D.A. worth filing a complaint with, we're gonna press charges. Obviously, they weren't worried about the bald ones here either, but they were worried about Gábor Kubatov, who hired them, and yet it would have been embarrassing for bald people to testify against the Vice President of Fidesz. That's how this system works. Of course, this is just one of many examples, but while we're at Gábor Kubatov, we might as well talk about the Vizoviczki case, where he asked the Vice President of Fidesz for help in his criminal proceedings in a tried-and-tested criminal letter. Kubatov said that the letter had been sent to the authorities, that it had been entered into the records of the criminal proceedings. And how interesting, the D.A.'s office somehow can't find this. [[Lajos Korózs: Shame!]] That's good luck for Fidesz. Or here's the Voldemort case, where a Fidesz congressman's act failed mysteriously, and the D.A.'s office didn't even investigate how. Then there are the MNB cases, where the central bank president's relatives, his mistress, his loving relatives carry public money out of the MNB with trucks, and besides the fact that you, Mr. Attorney General, accidentally spent a pleasant lunch with Matolcsy the day after the scandal started, nothing happens. And of course, it is also okay that the Prime Minister's kin is dealing with an international wanted criminal in Hungary, who buys real estate next to the Prime Minister and goes to and from Hungary without the prosecution's grasping it. And if you think all of this is subjective, Mr. Attorney General, according to Transparency International - not the Hungarian, but the international - which puts together one of the most respected and comprehensive corruption lists in the world, we have been sliding back and forth for years, with three seats this year. [[11.20]] I would also like to quote the following lines from Transparency. In Hungary, the centralized form of corruption was built and became systemic. The government uses its power without consequences to bring unauthorized benefits to the business groups in the lunar yard. All in addition to your puppetry, Your Honor. Congratulations on that. I wonder where the counterpoint is. Where are the criminal proceedings where the members of the Hungarian government, their real decision-makers and their oligarchs would be held accountable? Why is Lőrinc Mészáros not accused, István Tiborcz, Garanchi or Vajna? Is the D.A.'s office still riding on the fact that almost a decade ago there were socialist cases where - just by the way - the dispensations were born differently? A single procedure has not been initiated against a fidesz prominent, even though not only is the pissed off public opinion upset by systemic corruption, but also by leading intellectuals, such as conductor Zoltán Kocsis, who are independent of politics - God rest his soul! Sometimes, of course, there's a lot of scandal, and then they intern the ticket collector. I know of only one procedure against national politicians, which has begun, Roland Mengyi, alias Voldemort; a Member whose name we, colleagues, barely knew before the scandal started. Well, he's a real fidesz prominent, the ticket-taker, he's responsible for everything. Mr. Prosecutor General pointed out that you have an excellent relationship with OLAF. I listened to this with interest, because in 2015 at a conference, which was indeed organised by Transparency, one of OLAF's senior leaders, prominense, did not say that, Mr Attorney General. He highlighted the problems related to systemic corruption in Hungary and the fact that Hungary and the Hungarian law enforcement agencies are unable to act effectively in this regard. So what you do and tolerate, the snowman Olaf likes the Ice Man, but the office doesn't like it, that's for sure. Ladies and gentlemen of the Attorney General, You're always proud of 98 percent indictment, and I always have to highlight that, and I think more and more strongly. I will be very curious to know what the results of matters of political concern, which you believe are not, will be. I'd like to help you figure out what I think it is. Cases where politicians are involved, public decision-makers are involved, and otherwise they are expressed as political issues in the public eye. These are matters of political concern. I think it's very specific what they are. You can see the trend. Presumably, the indictment will not reach half of the national average; perhaps less than a third. I sincerely hope that a series of studies will be carried out on how the criminal proceedings took place during this period. I sincerely hope that legal scientists will analyse these judgments, analyse the criminal proceedings, analyse the procedures that have ceased to exist at the prosecution's office, analyze the complaints that you have rejected for various reasons, and science will eventually determine what will be the assessment of this era. I am afraid, Your Honor, that, although you are obviously biased about your activities in a positive sense, I am also biased in a negative sense. I predict that these scientific achievements will be significantly closer to my conviction and judgement than yours. President Rubovszky's sentence to ask us to support this report, I think, was a joke, and I understand that. If there was a button on the palette that was really no, then I would press this. Thank you very much.
u2016-12-07-30	I now give the floor to Congressman Tamás Bellozó.
u2016-12-07-31	Thank you for the floor. Dear Parliament, The devastating overall picture that my fellow Member Bárándy has just presented is, unfortunately, supported by a long series of long cases in 2015. Of course, it would be in vain to look for these in the written or oral account of the Attorney General. At least at the level of mention, it is worth recalling some of these long lists so that my fellow Members can really make an informed decision when voting on the report on the activities of the Attorney General. The beginning of 2015 was loud from the broker scandal. Despite this, Csaba Tarsoly was free to operate weeks after the Quaestor fell, and even put a stromant at the head of his company, all in front of the entire public, the evening newscast for weeks. The indictment was also scandalous. You may remember that the press was loud from the D.A.'s and the court's messages. We almost got to the point that the indictment itself had failed, because the court refused to comply. Then Tartalékkezelés Kft. under the Ministry of Agriculture, more commonly known as TIG Kft., held a clear and clear violation of the relevant laws of HUF 410 million at the also indulging Hungária Securities Company. The public money's gone, the company's been liquidated since then, and the results of the investigation have been silent for a year and a half. They've also been investigating the case of Esos for over a year without any published results. Like Esos, Roland Mengyi, the Fidesz Voldemort, wanted to profit from the same tender sources, which will be discussed today. Based on the data published, it can be seen that the NAV investigators would have solved the case already in 2015 if they had been allowed to do so. The Attorney General initiated the suspension of the immunity of Roland Mengyi only after news articles about the scandalously sabotaged investigation had been published, until the prosecutor's office was okay. In any case, the prosecutor's office shows a spectacular lack of interest when the name of a criminal politician comes up. Thus, he did not arouse any particular interest from the prosecutor's office when he learned that László Vizoviczki was asking Gábor Kubatov for help by letter. The content of the letter was as follows, according to the prosecutor's record:. In exchange for the criminal information not involving support provided in the campaign and Fidesz politicians, K. G. should help László Vizoviczki defend himself on parole. After that, there is no reason to be surprised that according to the prosecutor's office, a known criminal, in this case Tamás Portik, talks in his testimony before the court about the previous specific bribery, amount, number, and everything of Antal Rogán, Minister of the Cabinet Office of the Prime Minister. The D.A.'s office doesn't care. The D.A. did not object to the fact that, on the basis of the documents published by the MSZP, it is assumed that the state-owned Electricity Works colluded with MET Zrt., which is connected to those close to the government, to sell its own gas above the market price of MET - we are talking about profits of a hundred billion. Only the members of the opposition parliament, as well as the journalists, and not the prosecutors who exercise the powers of judicial control, saw that the foundations of the Magyar Nemzeti Bank were distributing public money illegally. We have official papers on this now. This is just the tip of the iceberg, my fellow Members. I think that everyone would be able to report an uncomfortable case for the current power from their own constituency, for which it is clearly not intended to carry out criminal proceedings successfully. These are the cases that my fellow Members will set an example in their further speeches. For years, we have been drawing attention to a multitude of misguided, more precisely, misplaced cases, Mr. Attorney General's constant attention. We could also go back to the same scandalous issues that we said last year and before, because most of them have not yet made any meaningful progress. Based on years of experience, the political motivation of the prosecution is clear. The prosecutor's office launches on the basis of tangible political considerations and, despite its obvious unfounded nature, maintains charges or, in other cases, refuses to impose investigations on the most obvious suspicions. One of the most recent examples of which the country may not laugh because it needs to be weeped, Mr. Attorney General, is the rejection of the complaint in the Pharaon case. [[11.30]] They explained that although the government's information is contradictory, and as a possible explanation of this, there is a deliberate failure of the authorities, i.e. a crime, but this is only a possible conclusion, not a logical result from the data we have learned. That was all written down, Mr. Attorney General. Tell me, Mr. Attorney General, if the complaint doesn't contain the only possible logical statements, but if the D.A. itself admits that there is one, then what do we consider you to be? So, if you keep making reports with it, first of all, the reporter didn't confirm the fact, he wrote down, the money was missing - there was another case like this - they find that the money is actually missing, otherwise it's missing because of what's written down, but the reporter can't prove a clear logical link between the two events, then what do we consider you to be? What do you have the widest possible investigative powers, secret service tools, organization, authority to the other investigating authorities? So if a citizen can't file an indictment today, then you have the answer to reject it because there's nothing to see here? I thought that we held the independent prosecutor's office, as well as the police, so that such cases - if I remember correctly - were even decorated for something like this - could be handled nicely; obviously, those complicated cases could only have happened to MSZP politicians. If, from controversial government information - back to the specific case - the Hungarian version, government lying is a possible explanation for the suspicion of misdemeanor abuse, since this is what you wrote, wouldn't it be your job to start the investigation and clarify the problem that you raised, whether it really happened or how it happened? Although it is probably only the blind person in this case who does not see what is going on and what has been going on in the past, and as we exercise opposition powers, we can extract new and new information and papers from the government, we, by doing your work, Mr. Attorney General, the clearer, the clearer, the more clear it can be seen by documents that many domestic laws have been violated in this case by the authorities, and for example, you alone could find out that these abuses of certain officials were perhaps violations or crimes committed by political orders. The fact that the prosecution's activities are politically motivated derives from the person of the Attorney General and from the laws governing the prosecutor's organisation created by Fidesz. This was also clearly stated in the GRECO report by the Venice Commission and the Council of Europe Group of Anti-Corruption States, and therefore the MSZP developed a complex legislative amendment to break it down. Of course, we do not have much hope that Fidesz will support our proposal to depolitise the prosecution, but we consider it important to demonstrate how a professionally independent prosecution can be developed. The MSZP proposal sets out new rules for the term of office of the Attorney General and for the establishment of his mandate, thus allowing for a more open, transparent and democratic establishment of the General Prosecutor's mandate than is currently the case. The MSZP proposal also refers to the exercise of disciplinary powers - also for reasons of guarantee - to the task and competence of the prosecutor's councils, which also significantly increases the transparency of the functioning of the prosecutor's organisation. Furthermore, our proposal provides for rules in the case of on-call procedures to ensure the legitimate exercise of this competence, free of any self-absorbedness. The withdrawal of the case shall take place only in writing and by keeping the requirements of equal treatment. The case's competence and designation shall be factually justified. If the case is withdrawn arbitraryly because there is no threat to the performance of the duties and powers of the prosecutor's office, this conduct establishes the disciplinary liability of the superintendent prosecutor on the basis of a law. Unfortunately, before changing the current legal conditions laid down by Fidesz and changing the person of the Attorney General, there is no hope for impartial, professionally independent prosecution. Moreover, the report does not even reflect on the real problems. In view of this, the MSZP will strongly reject and vote against the accounts of the Attorney General. Finally, an actuality, ladies and gentlemen, about where Hungary is today in the fight against corruption, Mr Orbán's order published yesterday tells us everything about Hungary's withdrawal from the international anti-corruption organisation called Open Government Cooperation. With this, the government is now openly committed to corruption and stands for the theft-based governance of the national cooperation system. You can do this without delay, because although the leaders of the government and the prosecutor's office talk at many conferences about huge anti-corruption actions, the reality is that the person of the Attorney General guarantees Viktor Orbán simply to view the country's public property as property, at least this is supported by a multitude of cases to be presented in the course of the debate. This is truly sad for all Hungarian citizens, and we think it is a disgrace to the independent prosecutor's office on paper alone. Thank you for listening.
u2016-12-07-32	Thank you. I now give the floor to Dr. György Rubovszky, the lead speaker of the KDNP Group.
u2016-12-07-33	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, I'll be very brief. I would just like to comment on two contributions from the Socialist Group. As chairman of the committee, I have already said that seven members of the committee, including myself, supported the adoption of the prosecutor's report before the committee. I feel that the Attorney General then answered all the questions appropriately. On the subject of these speeches, I would like to state two facts. One was that the Justice Committee was officially in Paris in 2015, and that delegation was also a member of the Socialist Party, Mr Teleki. We met the Attorney General according to our program, and the Attorney General praised Péter Polt's international activities for a long time, personalized and mental. [[Dr. Gergely Bárándy: I've already calmed down. Defiance in the ranks of the MSZP.]] I listened to the congressman, I didn't yell at him, and I think I can expect that here. Dear Parliament, On the other hand, I would like to draw attention to a very strange two, which I also have to say in connection with the speech by Mr Barándy. I have been here a long time, and I recall that during the Horn administration, the procedures against such persons, which Congressman Barándy said on the pulpit, who should be prosecuted, were also dealt with by a representative named László Keller, who was then an inspector of the Socialist Party, or, I don't know, what kind of Prime Minister's Commissioner he acted on, took seriously and started these proceedings. All proceedings have been terminated by the court. So, with all due respect, before we make big names here, and say the names of respected people on the pulpit, we should be careful. [[Dr. Gergely Bárándy: Who? Lajos Korózs: Voldemort or Phaåraon?]] The other duality, on the other hand, which I would like to point out to Congressman Harangozó, is that I remember that the prosecution of Portik started during the Bajnai government. Then Portik made it public that the socialists were trying to get him to make real or fabricated accusations against fidesz politicians, and then they would get the discharge. Then we heard nothing but how a normal person comes to listen to the word of a criminal like Lajos Portik. [[Dr. Gergely Bárándy: Kubatov acknowledged the letter!]] Interestingly, when Portik makes a statement that can be brought up against the current government, it is already seen as a real statement. [[Dr. Gergely Bárándy: Cubatov knew the letter, not the Portik.]] Mr. President, with all due respect, I would ask that, if I could, order be maintained in this courtroom. [[11.40]] Dear Parliament, After all, I am confused. I regret that you do not have a fourth button, Mr Barándy, that you do not accept it very much. Completely pointless, illogical, as chairman of the Justice Committee, I still ask that the report be accepted. Thank you. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-12-07-34	I now give the floor to Csaba Gyure, the lead speaker of Jobbik.
u2016-12-07-35	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, Your Honor, Chief Prosecutor, your replacements, colleagues. I would like to begin by saying to my colleague, György Rubovszky, that I would like to respond to a suggestion from the Member, in which he said that in the Committee on Justice, Mr Péter Polt had answered all the questions. Yes, it may be so, but we note that my fellow Member, István Apáti, did not even have the opportunity to ask his questions, because he had been cut off here, he put some of them on the table, he did not know some of them, so he could not comment at the meeting of the Justice Committee. But I only memorized that by the way and in parentheses. I would like to begin by saying that I would like to thank every prosecutor and prosecutor for the sacrifice, every prosecutor and prosecutor who has done his job unmotivatedly and conscientiously in accordance with the law, from political interests in the year 2015 and has done so ever since. I think that they certainly deserve both thanks and praise. I'd like to divide my speech into two parts. We got the Attorney General's report. I think that we have learned very important issues, in them very important facts, which at present determine or determine the situation in criminal proceedings, the number of criminal offences and their evolution. We know a lot about it, and there is a very important part of it that has been left out of this report. I'd like to talk about both, first what's inside. Obviously, it is a good thing that the number of murders in Hungary is decreasing year after year, so this report also shows that there is a significant decrease compared to the previous year, as well as a large reduction in the number of thefts. I think that in this case, however, statistics and changes in legislation at regular intervals also have a significant impact on statistics, obviously not in manslaughter, but in crimes against property. We also see a reduction in fraud, and these are positive trends. This is no longer the case for drug abuse. That's where the number of crimes stagnated. What is interesting and obviously typical of 2015: the rise of the migration wave has thrown a new type of crime on the agenda, and this is smuggling people, which has increased significantly, and it has obviously become very important for law enforcement authorities to reduce human trafficking in Hungary. The border lock was also an inspiration to smugglers and, on the other hand, helped law enforcement because fewer people were able to get into our country illegally. I would also like to highlight budgetary fraud, which was also stagnant. According to the D.A.'s report, according to the main prosecutor's report, this genre, fiscal fraud among crimes, in particular because the value of the crime is generally very high, the magnitude of the billions is very common, and both the frauds related to public funds in Hungary and the frauds involving EU public funds are a very large item; and what is still very big, the frauds committed on VAT, which we hear about every day. Here we can no longer talk about the fact that the reconnaissance rate in this area is as good as it would have been, and to such a great extent it would have been possible to reduce the crime to this end. There is a very large rise in the abuse of cash substitute currencies. We see that the number of these crimes increased by 50 percent or more over a year from 2014 to 2015. I think that this should be given greater attention to both the police and the prosecution in the future, and these statistics show the direction to which we need to concentrate more in the next year when we define the work of law enforcement agencies. New legislation and new types of crime have also been included in the legislative changes. Such is the illicit crossing of the border lock, the damage to the border lock, and the prevention of construction work related to the border lock. This was a new thing with law enforcement. There were 908 perpetrators in connection with the illegal crossing of the border, 22 perpetrators were apprehended for destruction, and no criminal proceedings were launched in connection with the prevention of border closure construction works. The prosecution's results have been specifically pointed out, although he said that he did not attach too much importance to him. The 97.3 percent and the indictment rate is obviously very good, excellent. Péter Polt said that the main goal is not to make the accusation an effective one, but to find the truth. I think that this is not always true, and this is supported by the fact that the prosecution's appeals, the prosecution's appeals for aggravate, are far from as good as the prosecution's results, which are just above 25 percent, the one-quarter, and I think this is in contradiction with the general prosecutor's statement. The main prosecutor's report also gives room for complaints against the rejection of the complaint. In this regard, he notes that the prosecutor's office only allowed 24,6 percent. In this area, I would like to draw attention to an old problem that arose during the previous parliamentary term, that is, and the Jobbik Movement for Hungary has protested a great deal, when - although this is not the fault of the prosecuting prosecutor, but the fault of the legislator - it changed the law in such a way that the complainant can complain only if the crime has been committed against him. If he finds out about a crime as an outsider and makes a complaint, he can't file a complaint against rejection of the complaint. I think that when the legislator, the then majority of the government, made this crime, a two-thirds majority of the government, clearly intended to cover up crimes, so that if the prosecution, the investigating authority, refused to file a complaint, there could be no complaint, no further going forward, no further disturbing that matter, but keeping it quiet, it would remain hidden under the ash. Obviously, in my view, this amendment was primarily intended to cover up crimes. We've tried to repeal and restore the original status several times since then. That didn't work. Obviously, this is also the reason why 24,6 percent of complaints were accepted and, in a very large majority, more than 75% of complaints were rejected. However, if we look at the main task of the Public Prosecutor's Office, the Attorney General also highlighted Article 29 of the Fundamental Law in his speech. The prosecutor's office, as a public prosecutor, is the sole enforcer of the state's criminal claim. It is very important and very emphatic, which I have also emphasized, the word, the exclusive in this. He's the only one who can enforce criminal liability. Why does the prosecution have a special responsibility in this? Because no case, no case in which the prosecution does not press charges will not be a criminal offence in Hungary. Even if they commit it in a series, even if it happens in a series, it won't be a felony man who won't be prosecuted by the D.A.'s office. The court can't judge the man the D.A.'s office won't prosecute. This would be all right if this prosecutor's organisation were to operate perfectly and only and exclusively under the law, according to his conscience, by law. [[11.50]] My fellow Member, who spoke before me, also said his criticisms, the fundamental criticisms, which I regret to repeat; that is, where we see the activity, what is left out of this main prosecutor's report, and I see this as the saddest, and that is the most important thing on these issues. It has already been said that cases against opposition politicians are not sufficiently well-founded, they arise in exactly the same campaign period, and then they are off the agenda. We've heard the names of Béla Kovács among the politicians of Fidesz many times, which the D.A.'s office accidentally turned up in the middle of the election campaign, and that's what we could hear every day, and after the election campaign ended in 2014, nothing happened. I think I don't have to be a great psychic, that in the 2018 election campaign, the prosecutor's office is suddenly going to put this case back in the spotlight, and suddenly they're going to throw it back into the public eye, and there's going to be investigative acts in it that, unfortunately, couldn't be carried through in this country for four years. I think that this is also an exclusive example of the prosecution's intervention in a political battle in a way that it has no right, no obligation, but it has no right, and I think that this kind of behaviour is in all its forms unworthy of the prosecution. That's part of the problem. The other part, which may be much bigger, is that it does not act in cases where it should be. The state's criminal claim is exclusively validated by the prosecutor's office. It's an exclusive validater! So, if you don't press charges, if you don't order an investigation, you're gonna have to look at it like there's no crime. Do we live in a country where there are no corruption cases? Or if we're talking about corruption, we have to say, wow, how great a result the D.A.'s office has made, and I read in the report how many customs officers were caught at the border crossing point in Zahony, how many police officers were caught, how many police officers were investigated by border police agencies - a huge result. I'm sure it's a huge achievement, I'm sure some of them have accepted 10,000 plus 30,000 forints of bribes. And that's where your responsibility comes in. The Attorney General highlighted in his speech the public confidence in you, the rise in public confidence in you. And what do people say? What do they say is how to commit a crime, what is the rumor? They tell you not to steal small money if you steal, steal billions, because then they won't judge you, then they won't prosecute you. If we asked 100 people, 99 in Hungary would say so. Whose responsibility is that? Whose responsibility is it that this is a public address today? Because what do people see? They clearly see that when it comes to billions, there will be no criminal proceedings. Today we have discussed what our ranking is, what a prestigious place we have in the world ranking for corruption. It was truly shocking to me when I read the articles about this, and it is precisely the year 2015 - the Attorney General, which is also mentioned in your report, when Hungary returned to the world ranking of corruption. We have managed to reach the 50th place, now in the region, in Central Europe, in Eastern Europe, and in the EU countries we can only prevent Romania and Bulgaria, but if this activity continues in the same way in the future, I think that Hungary will be the last place. We are getting closer now, if I remember correctly, we are 22nd, 24th place in the dead race from the 28 member states, which is an amazing number, and especially if we consider that Hungary is constantly moving back and forth from the world ranking of corruption over the years, and this is still typical for the past six years. It's always the government's way of pointing back what it was, of course, for eight years before that. Let's not talk about what happened today. Let's talk about what happened today. We see that corruption has been deteriorating over the last six years. If we look at a newscast, of course, not the media of the public media and people close to Fidesz, which, as party propaganda, shout the huge economic and political achievements of Hungary, the emerging economic performance in Europe, of course, where only that can be heard, but those who dare to criticize today's society, dare to criticize the political performance of the government today, dare to criticize its economic performance, we hear nothing else in it; every day there is a suspicion of another crime. But what do these newspapers bring up, what do the newscasts bring up, what do these Internet news portals or newspapers bring up? They are not about the removal of 100,000 forints and 10 million forints, they are about the destruction of billions of public assets, which are revealed every day. And what happens to this? Nothing at all. We're gonna talk about it for a day, two days, three days, and then this is gonna go away. The pro-government politicians say every day at a time like this why they don't like to press charges, if they find out, it's an obligation for a Member of Parliament. I'm asking you what kind of investigative powers a congressman has. What investigative powers do we have to investigate anyone? Here is my colleague, Mrs Loránt Hegedűs, who has tried countless complaints in this area, and will certainly tell me what walls it will hit when she makes these complaints, how these reports are rejected continuously. And any fellow Member makes such a complaint in any case, draws attention to none of this, because someone is protecting the political and economic process that is taking place here in Hungary, which is virtually all about now, but about the draining of billion-dollar public funds, state funds, European Union funds. When the government's main aim is to make the most of EU funds, public money in public procurement and other tenders to the oligarchs close to it; when we talk about it constantly and we see that they are far overpriced during public procurement, they win multiplicity of applications; when they cannot account for public funds; when some buildings, when we go out to a location to which we are invited, we are invited, that a shocking thing has happened here, too. Indeed, when I look at a building, it's just built with public money and EU money, relatively small settlements, small towns, a 9 times 30 meters, a concrete example I've seen myself. A building will be built, and then I'll ask a bricklayer, contractor, if you'd like to tell me about what the price of this building that was built here is, how much it would cost to build it. And when he's counting, he's counting, he says, well, it can be built out of 60 million, but if I add everything, and I count the amount of bribes - the 10 percent that isn't now 10 percent - I'm gonna have to pay him, then there's a hundred million of them. And I'm looking at the little sign on which it is built with EU support, and I'm telling you a scale of nearly 700 million forints was the construction of this building. We have to say that if we go anywhere, we go to any settlement, we go to any county, we see this everywhere: the incredible amount of overpriced, the incredible amount of extra money, the public money that the government is throwing out, on the one hand, it doesn't make any sense, and on the other hand, it doesn't have anything to do with it. I think the D.A. has a huge responsibility to ensure that public funds are not scattered, squandered, stolen. If the D.A.'s office has not done much on this issue, or if we could say nothing, then at least try to take an example of the neighbouring countries, the prosecutors there. Take an example of Romania, Croatia, Serbia, countries where the prosecutor's office dares to touch politicians, either a prime minister or a head of state or a minister. I think that we will not talk about this in Hungary in the next few years until there is a change in the head office of the Attorney General. [[12.00]] I don't think that's gonna happen. I don't see any chance of that, but it's really important. It is very important that Hungary, too, should be an example that, yes, we are really fighting corruption. And who fights corruption? Everywhere they say it would take pressure from the public. But what good is public opinion if there's no investigative authority behind it, there's no political intent on the part of the government, there's no prosecution's intention to reveal them? And until then, we can talk about trust, we can talk about trust, but I don't think there's any real trust in people. People do not understand the responsibility of the prosecution for corruption in Hungary, and unfortunately, on this corruption world ranking, we are slowly sinking to the level of African countries, developing countries, and in this, both the police and the prosecution and, I think, government politicians together are equally responsible. I am very confident that there will be a change in this, that there will be strength and determination in the D.A.'s office in the future to step out of this line, so that everyone does not think that this is a country of corruption, that the public does not think that this is a common thing and it is acceptable that the people close to the fire in Hungary are stealing billions of public funds. I believe that there will be a change in this, but since there is no change at the moment, the Jobbik Movement for Hungary cannot accept the report. Thank you for your attention. [[It's a rare round of applause from the Jobbik benches.]]
u2016-12-07-36	Thank you. I now give the floor to Ákos Hadházy, lead speaker of the LMP Group.
u2016-12-07-37	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, - and the small part that's here, even though we're discussing an extremely important topic. I think that the role of the Prosecutor's Office would be particularly important in today's years. Thank you very much for coming to this trial. We've heard a lot of numbers in Mr. Attorney General's report. I can't compete with that. I'd just like to say one number, and this one number is number one. Since the change of regime, he was the only politician convicted of corruption, the only one who was a loser named János Zuschlag, who was sitting. Besides, we've never seen such politicians. And if anything, then this one number is yelling there, and the dozens of numbers that the prosecutor has said are all negligated and in parentheses, and there would be a candidate for it, and society can see that he would be nominated for it. But what we can see is that even from the current opposition politicians, we can't find anything that the prosecutor's office, the nocical boxes, the case of Simon, the case of Béla Kovács, they all come up when they have to come out, just before the elections. The D.A.'s office can't finish it, it's either incompetent or it's deliberately not finishing these cases. Or, of course, there is the presumption of innocence, and perhaps nothing has happened, but let me say that the may Other in Politics thinks that the first two versions are the truth. I would like to prove on two subjects, two cases or two that there are terrible problems here and that there should be much, much more Members here on this day than this report. One is a case, a story I can't prove. In recent years, I have been trying to present stories that are proven by documents, and the worst thing today is that a veterinarian can process cases between two dogs in Szekszárd, which the national tax authority's central investigator's office has already said is that it is indeed a matter of particularly high value, continued and extremely dangerous to society. I was working on this at the vet's office by the computer. The story I'd like to tell you for the first time, I can't prove it. I also heard it in Szekszárd, and I heard it next to a dog when a Szekszárd citizen told me after a dog was treated that the districts were divided in Pest. There are problems not only in the district of Rogán, but also in strange circumstances, where the estates are replaced; politicians and ministers are divided between the districts. Unfortunately, he was in a district owned by one of the ministers, and that minister was trying to get his property. This man had a very brave and long struggle. In the beginning, it's because he thought Mr. Attorney General was a good friend and went to the Attorney General's office. This man told me that Mr. Attorney General cried or at least wept, and said, "I'm sorry, I can't help you, I'm a prostitute." Prostitution is a terrible sociological problem, but it's a much bigger problem if it happens to an intellectual and a leading intellectual, leading intellectual person in a country. Of course, he doesn't sell his body here, but his soul, his authority and his knowledge. Of course, there is no evidence of how you're being paid. But we do know that, for example, your wife receives 5 million forints a month in a staff position at the Hungarian National Bank. And it is unworthy, indeed, to say such things here in Parliament, I think that this fact itself is extremely unworthy, but we have to talk about it, especially when it is here, especially because this fact explains the things which, in turn, are already facts and which I would like to list. We've had a lot of listings, it's good that we have time to talk here, and I think that the few opposition colleagues who spoke here could give us a lot of examples, and they could list a lot more than that, and they could open up these facts. I would like to talk about the cases in which I filed a complaint and which I know well. There's been a lot of them. In fact, there are ways in which the D.A.'s office is trying to avoid investigations. I'm not a lawyer, but sometimes I'm kind of laughing at the ridiculous excuses they're trying to cover up these investigations and spread them around. The first time I filed a complaint in the first EU cases... let me start by saying the right thing. There are times when investigations start, and, as I said before, in the Belts program, for example, the tax authority has already stated that there is virtually a suspicion of mafia crimes. Sometimes the investigations start. However, in about half of the cases, you do not start them, and it is very important to know this, and to say so here too, if anyone is watching from among the voters, it is very important to know here, too, that there will be a case here several times, that the prosecution will bring to court the one that will be brought there, and that will be the one that the Attorney General will allow. The cases I've filed have not been investigated in about half, no procedure has been initiated, and you can see that certain techniques are being used by the prosecutor. The first was such a technique, I received the first rejections by drawing attention to the fact that the estimated value of most public procurements and then the bid received was virtually the same as a penny. There are many, many public procurements where, let's say, it is estimated to be 19 million, 356 thousand forints, and at the end it will be worth 19 million, 356 thousand forints. There are a lot of topics, we have heard such topics from opposition colleagues, when we know, with common sense, that for the property they built, they should have received 200,000 forints per square metre, but they finally received it for 400 thousand forints. In these cases, the D.A.'s office immediately swept them down with a very interesting reason. He said that the estimated value under the law was the highest possible market price for public procurement; he said that it was the highest market price. And since he was in it right now, it's true that he's a penny point, so there was no damage, no damage. This nonsense is written down because it doesn't even occur to you, and it doesn't even occur to you in your prosecutor's office that there may have been an official among the perpetrators who estimated how much it would cost to get it. That never occurred to you. How did it not come up? How did it not come up? ! I'll tell you now. After that, when I filed the following reports, I already wrote that this is not an acceptable reason, I know that that's it, but it should also come up, Your Honor, that there might already have been an undercover person at the prep. That's why they don't use them anymore. This was the case in the solar panels competitions, where the same company won the tenders for dozens of applications, the same two were invited to bid. [[12.10]] The CEO's wife wrote the applications, it's clearly illegal. Everywhere it was double the market price, but they said nothing happened here, because they were within the estimated value. It's written down by your prosecutor. It's signed there. I'll ask you that in two minutes, just so you can prepare for it. And then the other technique was, and the next, when I typed these in, it was a nice technique, for example, when a public procurement was written out, that an experimental curriculum had to be prepared, a new curriculum had to be prepared on rabbit breeding and garden planning. Some interesting materials came out, the children were told on the first page that the garden could be designed, but the best thing is to design the garden around the mailbox. They got caught pretty soon, because what happened was that an American curriculum, a 30-year-old curriculum, was sold to the Hungarian state as if it were a new curriculum. Word for word, mirror translation, that's basically cheating. He turned down the D.A.'s office, said they asked the Department of Human Resources, said the Department of Human Resources had received the material, they got what they asked for, so nothing happened here. Whether there's evidence, it doesn't matter if it's there, it's been translated word for word, even the bullshit, it's been mistranslated. But whatever. Whatever. It's true they wanted to buy a new car, but they got a stolen 30-year-old car, but the D.A. doesn't mind. There's paperwork on that, too. There's paper on these! The next technique for completely unconscious purchases - let me give you an example here in Parliament - was when the University of Kaposvár received HUF 200 million to conduct mycotoxin tests, and of which 25 million was immediately spent on how young researchers could be involved in this study. He had to do deep interviews, one of those kfts. He was commissioned to do deep interviews, to do deep interviews with the professor, and then to write a study on how to involve these young researchers in this study. And I'll tell you this now: the way to get him involved is that the person who is in the department and is interested in this topic, let's be happy that he can be involved for 100 thousand forints a month. That would have been 25 million. We filed a complaint, the prosecutor said there was nothing wrong here, because the call for tender was determined by the government decision, and if it was decided by a government decision, then there would be no stealing. I beg you, Counselor. Can't the government steal? Are you sure there's no such thing as cheating in the Hungarian government? ! Then the latest techniques, when they say that they reject quite extreme spending by talking about extreme, nonsense studies, studies about nothing. It is quite clear, often stolen, because it can be shown that one buys the other - although it does not bother the government side about theft of intellectual property - but it is said that nothing is wrong because we have looked at the tender notice - these are written down, these are not exaggerations, they are written down - and we have looked at the invitation to tender and it says that only reasonable costs can be accounted for. So you're saying that we don't even look at what happened, we've looked at it on the first page, that it's only a reasonable cost that can be accounted for, so it must be justified costs. It's written down by your D.A.'s office. I'm sorry, that's stupid. It's either stupid or it's bullshit. But you write it down, it's written down by your prosecutors. They don't use it anymore either, because I write them all in - I'm sorry - I put it in the next report that it's not a reason, so now they're not using it, they're saying it's just! They say we've been looking into it lately, we haven't found anything wrong - just. This is the kind of one-sided justification that people refuse to press charges. At the same time, there are some things they can't bypass. When I started examining EU money, I started because stealing EU money is the biggest party. This is a thousand-billion-dollar party, compared to this, neither the land, nor the trade, nor the National Bank's spending is nothing; these are thousands of-billion-dollar cases. The other is that there is a minimal second line behind you, because there is no other line behind you with non-EU funds. What you're judging is that you don't need people to know, and you don't have to go to trial, you don't have to go to court. No one's checking you out. There's only one inconvenience, they'll get over it, an hour or two tops, but that's not it. They'll get over it, they'll go home, there's no one to tell you. However, it is in EU cases, where it is still necessary to start investigating, there are places where you have to start working at least by appearance, and there are cases, I don't know what happened in the Mengyi case. There was probably a very capable NAV detective who probably didn't just take the evidence to his boss, but probably took it somewhere to copy. That's why the Mengyi case could be a case. In these cases that can't be bypassed... And such a case, for example, is the Belt case, where, once again, the investigative authority of the NAV described that the only way that could have happened was if someone centrally organised the Belt case, the investigation started. The Wolf Florians are under investigation, but there's only one tactic left, and that's a waste of time. There's only one thing left to do when there's nothing left to do, and we're stalling. Let's go as soon as possible. The Prime Minister reportedly told his Fidesz colleagues here in the House that he wanted silence in 2017. Be quiet, and after that, it's okay to lead anyone away, because there won't be any press that will show you this, or at least a lot less press that will show you when people are led away. It's a stall. In the history of Flórian Farkas, it is incomprehensible that almost two years after I showed you how an old Opel Corsa was hired for hundreds of thousands of forints a month, this man comes to Parliament every day, and you have not even taken the initiative to request his immunity. Obviously, you have to stall. But these contracts... billions of forints, even the state has admitted, the EMMI wants this money back. I don't know how you're gonna get it back, but the EMMI investigated and admitted this case. But this man still comes in here, and he still receives a million forints a month from the Prime Minister in addition to the salary of his representatives. You can list cases, you have the techniques, sometimes you smile at them, sometimes you cry at them. One single number of all the numbers is certainly important, and that is how many politicians have had criminal consequences. One thing we know is that it's János Zuschlag. Or it is that the Hungarian people are completely wrong, every survey, the confidence index says that the politician is the last of these professions, then the Hungarian people are wrong, and the many surveys, the many corruption indexes, absolutely wrong, only your numbers are true. Or the thing is, you don't intend to investigate them. The D.A.'s office is out of control, and you're used to suggest as a result that there is no prosecutor in Europe as independent as you are. And if you hadn't been a prostitute, that would have been a really good result. However, here, this lack of control means that you still get control from a government. The facts listed here by colleagues and the facts I've listed all point to, and I must say, prove that if anyone looks at this thing a little impartially, that you have control. What's most terrible to me about building the whole Highway stadium is the terrible money that goes there, but a picture, a photo, when this stadium was opened, and you were sitting there, not next to the Prime Minister, but underneath it, and I'm afraid you've even got the snot in your neck. Attorney General will be elected for nine years, and the Attorney General knows that even if his time is up, he will only be dismissed if he has his successor by a four fifths majority. So there's a good chance you'll never have to account for it. These are the unpleasant things that we're about to tell you, it's very unpleasant for you, I know, but you can survive these things. And you know that, and you're hoping that no one will ever, ever hold you accountable. We will certainly work on it, and the May Other is Politics, and we will personally work to make sure that this happens. I don't know if we can do this. You have great faith in him, and you are very confident that you will not, otherwise you would not make such decisions. But these must be done. Thank you very much.
u2016-12-07-38	Ladies and gentlemen, We have reached the end of the keynote speeches. We now have the speakers who have checked in in in advance. I give the floor to Congressman Lajos Korózs. [[12.20]]
u2016-12-07-39	Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Dear fellow Members, I would like to comment on pages 6, 12 and 13 of the report, and I would like to continue at some point where my colleague Tamás Harangozó left off. First of all, I would like to point out that the report on corruption matters on page 6 provides the following information: the number of registered corruption acts which violate the purity of public life was 761, which shows a significant reduction compared to the 3268 cases registered in the previous year. The reason for this was the outstanding value of the so-called language test case as indicated in last year's report, while the number of acts of corruption did not differ in scale from those of previous years, and it was practically the same as their arithmetic average. Then it's clear that corruption hasn't dropped a bit since last year. I will also address what my fellow Member, Mr Harangozó, said about the publication published in the Hungarian Gazette, which was quoted by Viktor Orbán yesterday. But first of all, I'd like to say some unscrupulous sentences, Mr. Attorney General, about baldsgate. Not only because my fellow Member István Nyakó, my friend, was involved in it, but also because I think that what happened here in Hungary after the change of regime is unprecedented. Everyone knows what this is about. On 26 February, my fellow Member, István Nyakó, filed a complaint in this case, and later the National Election Office and the NVB also filed a complaint in this case. I think it's known to everyone. The crime identified in the complaint was a crime against the order of elections, referendums and the order of the European citizens' initiative. That's Btk. 350. Paragraph 2 of this Article clearly states that: I do not want to mention all the points in the legal situation, but it must be pointed out, and in this it is clear that whoever is prevented by election, referendum, referendum or European citizens' initiative or seeks to influence it with violence, threats, deception or financial benefits and the rest. Let's take a look at what happened on the D.A.'s side - I set myself up at four points. I'm not trying to tell you chronology, but it's still instructive, and it has to be said to the record. The first step was that on 1 March, the Metropolitan Attorney General ordered a supplementary report. The second step was that the prosecutor's order was issued on 4 March 2016, in a short period of three days. In the third step, on 10 August, the investigation was terminated with reference to the fact that the act was not a criminal offence. The D.A.'s office has a shocking logic as to why it's not a felony for bald guys. The Erdősiné-Nyakó duel is subsequently recorded on the basis of a mansion decision to be decided on 6 April that the time of arrival to the NVB is linked to the receipt of the submission at the office and is not adapted to the time stamp, and therefore the sequence of events before the time stamp does not have any relevance to the criminal judgement of the act. Of course, on February 23, no one could have known that this would be the Curia's position, so the fight at the time stamp seemed of great importance at the time. Moreover, the D.A. even denied that István Nyakó would be at all a victim of the crime, even though obstruction is more like a coercion. It's only a step from here to prove he wasn't there. The fourth step is that István Nyakó complained about the termination of the investigation, which the prosecutor's office, of course, rejected. [[Dr. István Józsa: This is political terror!]] Dear fellow Members, This is where my fellow Member whispers, and he is right that this belongs to the category of political terror. With reference to page 6, I have just mentioned that corruption in Hungary has not decreased a bit. I was shocked to read yesterday about the government 1719/2016. Prime Minister Viktor Orbán notes this in his own hands, according to which Hungary quits one of the most important international anti-corruption cooperation. It is certainly well known to my fellow Members that tomorrow the annual summit of the International Anti-Corruption Initiative, called Open Government Cooperation, will begin in Paris. Instead of fulfilling the Hungarian government's commitments, he quits cooperation. It's just one more step from here, maybe it's a pre-cut. I do not know if it is possible to exclude Member States from this organisation, but this would most likely have happened if Hungary had not announced this withdrawal. It is worth spending a sentence here on what was the pre-exit situation. The immediate precedent of the exit is that the organization has reprimanded Hungary for the government's opposition to the principles of open government, and has demanded decisive steps not to make Hungary's membership inactive, like Azerbaijan or Turkey, in Hungarian: to act in this international organization. Dear friends, I have brought these two examples because we are at Azerbaijan and Turkey level with this exit since yesterday. Péter Szijjártó explained the decision by, among other things, becoming a field for teaching lectures in some countries, not having a real dialogue, distorting the facts and making unilateral reports. On the other hand, the truth is, House, ladies and gentlemen, that for many years the organisation has done nothing to those Member States that have failed to comply with their commitments or have completely opposed the fundamental principles of transparent governance. Under internal pressure, a procedure has been introduced in 2014 to allow a review of the membership of certain countries. The fact that Hungary did not perform well also shows that the government's second action plan is in a significant part its first repetition, practically Ctrl C-Ctrl V, and in a year and a half it has barely been possible to make progress with the very modest commitments, they have done virtually nothing. We have been outraged by this many times. In addition to the above, laws restricting public information on state spending have been adopted at almost monthly intervals. I stress that we have been upset about this many times, we have interpelled many times, and in our comments before the agenda we have highlighted the depravity of government. We also remember when the government passed a law against transparency days after the first action plan was presented. This was accompanied by a lack of dialogue between the government and civilians both during the development of action plans and by the fact that the government called most of the ongoing partners agents and organisations representing foreign interests and sent Kehi to them. We all know that, we all remember it, and we raised our voices against it all the time, and we were outraged. I think the international organization would have made a clown of itself if it hadn't started reviewing Hungary's status. One year's inquiry into the civil society's call confirmed the complaints. The more than one hundred pages of the report, which can be read in English, provides a detailed account of the developments in Hungary over the past few years. I understand that at the Paris Summit, Minister of Interior Sándor Pintér was also invited to discuss the Hungarian situation at the highest level, because in a letter the government rejected the summer report and the accusations made in it. However, with yesterday's government decision, it became clear that the government is no longer willing to take any pretend measures against corruption, and rather than losing its face, it took its own initiative to withdraw from the organization. Obviously, Sándor Pintér did not buy a plane ticket for this conference. I think it's a shame. It is a disgrace to the government, but unfortunately it is also a shame to Hungary. Dear House, Dear fellow Members, Pages 12 and 13 of the report deal with the activities of the Central Prosecutor's Office; this is the reporting point 2.1.2. I have to say, it's not possible to talk about the prosecutor's organization as a whole. There is a part, a huge set of prosecutors, who carry out their statutory duties fairly; this has been said by Congressman Bárándy and others. The many positive figures in the report praise their work, for which they are thanked. However, there is another part, an extremely small set of public prosecutors, which is subject to a completely different assessment. Some of the senior prosecutors and senior management are confidants of today's reigning XXI. He is not a minister of the century dictatorship, but a very stable pillar. [[12.30]] For years there has been a tendency to prosecute opponents in conceptual trials on the prosecution's motion, and there has been neither a trace nor a number of acquittals in these cases since then. The second pillar of this method of operation is that state corruption through mafia methods is facilitated by the prosecution's ability to do nothing; there is no chance of proceeding against pro-government prominents, let us say. This was also referred to by my fellow Member, Mr Bellozó, and by Mr Barándy. I would like to quote a colleague of sociologists, and now we have a quote: the term "Godfather" is undoubtedly referring to Viktor Orbán. Viktor Orbán, as the supreme authority of the Mafia state, subdues him, and in everything he defines the familyly order of the various kinds of vassals, is a full and arbitrary ruler of the system, first he has mastered the party and then the state, and forms it in his own image, subordinate to his own power and/or economic interests. I'd like to say that was formulated by a sociologist's colleague. Dear House, My ringing colleague referred to it, the Group of States Against Corruption - the GRECO Group - assessed Hungary's performance against corruption for the fourth time in 2015 in relation to the prosecution, and concluded that the statutory provision that the main prosecutor in office will exercise his rights beyond the expiry of his nine-year term of office and 70 years until Parliament elects his successor by a two-thirds majority results in one third of the Members of Parliament holding the chief prosecutor in office as a blocking minority until the end of time. According to the anti-corruption organisation, this rule significantly increases the political influence of the election of the Attorney General. And then I would also like to refer to the definition of another sociologist:. We are witnesses and/or participants in building and cementing the system of a political enterprise that is not serving the country, not the nation, not the majority, and has no other remote purpose. Only those in power, especially the leader, the godfather, and the small number of initiated and organized worlds around him, serve the material benefits, wealth and arbitrary power of national and social populism, misleading and false political communication, verbal aggression, an institutionalized arsenal of threats, a centralised and manual control system of government and parliamentary operation. All in all, and all in all, the mafia-like organised political scene requires a peaceful and sometimes more violent build-up. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Dear House, Dear fellow Members, I think that these two quotations, which I left to the very end, say a lot about the system of national cooperation, that, among the recommendations made to amend the rules on judges, prosecutors and Members of Parliament, the Fidesz majority is willing to deal only with the recommendations on Members of Parliament. He refuses to take into account serious concerns about the courts and, in particular, the prosecutors. It's a tragedy! This is the tragedy of the whole country. Dear House, Dear fellow Members, We could list a number of local cases here, and I myself interpelled here last week, before that I gave examples of the use of EU funds in Heves County. It is not true that an investigation cannot begin in a case where more than HUF 1 billion is spent on an adventure park where 38 people have entered in two years! That no one would notice that more than 1 billion forints were financed for an investment and 38 people registered for it? ! Isn't it true that no one realizes that for hundreds of millions they're building a trail that never opened? ! Doesn't anyone notice that they're building a bicycle road and rejecting the complaint on the grounds that they'll correct it later, which will lead nowhere? That they're building a bicycle road in which we measure the crack to a depth of 74 centimeters that a bicycle can be set to an axis? And there's no investigation into this case? ! Billions are being skied. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] Yes, my fellow Members, the area is divided, and this is the territory of a secretary of state. Thank you so much for listening.
u2016-12-07-40	Thank you. I give the floor to Congressman Gábor Staudt.
u2016-12-07-41	Thank you very much. Mr. President. Dear House, Mr. Attorney General. A lot has been said before me on this subject. I am going to highlight one or two things, but basically I would like the main professional problems and professional problems that, if they do not fail in the prosecution's office and the law is well applied by the prosecutor's office, then it is the responsibility of all of us in the future to make legislation that can work, because there is no other variation. There is a variation that the prosecutor's office is not doing its job properly, and there is a variation that is done properly, but the legislation allows them to perform such a task, and then the legislation needs to be changed. What we are talking about here, most of all, is public financial abuse, corruption, fraudulent treatment, sloppy treatment, all the other crimes in which we can see the money running away. This cannot be debated, several international reports are constantly dealing with it, and now it is not just our backwards or forwards ranking of corruption... - it is usually the backwards ranking that we have seen in recent years. So it's not just this, it's also its volume, because there may be a number of minor corruption crimes in one country, which may be possible, its total volume still doesn't include, let's say, centrally, a corruption decided at government level, which affects much more money. So I have to say that even the ranking alone is only a partial element of how much money disappeared in Hungary mainly after the 1990s and, let's call it, after the years of the regime change. Several international statistics have pointed out this, and these statistics or statistics that I know usually run until the beginning of the 2010s, and show that the total Hungarian government debt has been 2,5-3 times the money that has been in Hungary since the late eighties, and this is a cautious estimate, it has disappeared, it has leaked, it has been taken out of the country in an offshore direction, and this is all its responsibility to the political elite - here, quoting the elite. And this is not only true of the Fidesz governments, of course it is true of socialist governments, or even the years of the MDF governments. It is possible to argue where the proportion was, but in practice the Hungarian judiciary could not give a meaningful answer; because if it could, these funds would not have flown out. I stress that we are talking about so much money here that not only could we not talk about the total Hungarian government debt if they had stayed inside and spent on it, but could have stayed in the pockets of the Hungarian people twice as much. So the cancer of Hungary is that these techniques have been built and, unfortunately, we have not seen any truly effective law enforcement. By the way, we've been talking in dollars until 2013 -- until now, I think, the estimate -- if I remember correctly, we're talking about 250 billion dollars that have flown out of the country. By the way, we are the first in Europe to make a good place in the world - unfortunately, the good is once again quoted - and not in terms of per capita amounts, but, unfortunately, it is an absolute value that we are talking about. In this case, again, it arises whether there is a problem with the legislation. Otherwise, there is also a problem with them, but nevertheless, a more effective law enforcement work could have been expected within the framework of Hungarian legislation. I have to bring it up here again, which is a very good example, because we can not only talk about the reports of opposition Members of Parliament or individuals, because of course it can be said that there is politics behind it, you can say it from the government, from the pro-government benches, but I have also told the chief prosecutor, and I have also drawn attention on a written question that the reports of Kehi, the Office for Government Control, have come to the same fate. [[12.40]] You can't accuse Kehi of not being a government agency, and when he does these charges, obviously, there's a serious investigation ahead of him, and there's no dumb-ass people working there who just write something down on the papers. This means that a year and a half of public interest data has shown that I was curious about the number of cases in which the investigating authorities or the prosecution refused to press charges, either without ordering an investigation, or by ordering an investigation, but at the end of the investigation, without indictment: in 66 cases it was nearly HUF 50 billion worth of business that could thus be established. I'm guessing that's why Kehi tried very hard to filter cases, and only to bring them to the DA's office, which was properly backed up. I also have to say that half of the cases, nearly half of them, were misguided, and amounted to HUF 48 billion, which is a huge asset compared to 50 billion. It was said that these amounts had just flown again. I could say that in some cases they were obviously stolen, and in other cases they were not used properly. So I'm not even saying, let's say, all 50 billion were stolen. Obviously, a certain amount of this is something that has not been dealt with in good, inadequately, unfaithfully, negligently, but criminal prosecution would have been justified there, but the problem is that this has not happened. In my written question, I also tried to answer that the problem here was the work of the prosecution, the problem was Kehi's work, or perhaps the Hungarian legislation was inadequate. Obviously, when I wrote the question to the Attorney General, I did not think the answer would be that the problem would be with the prosecution's work, but I am quite certain of it, and the answer was that it was difficult to prove these facts, because the facts of the law require certain criteria, so that they could be proved 100% in any case. If that is the case, although I have obviously not excused the prosecutor's office, it is also clear from the Kehi statement that there have been quite a number of circumstantial arguments here, not only on the part of the prosecutor's office, but also on the part of the investigating authorities, which the prosecutor's office has often accepted; so there have been a number of circumstantial arguments that can only be read from the material that I have seen, which makes it clear that, in the most part, it could have been prosecuted. In which case no, the story should have been run there, that even the Supreme Public Prosecutor's Office should have made a suggestion that the facts of the misrepresentation would then be changed by the Parliament, making law enforcement more clear in these cases; or even by introducing new facts, we should have created a situation in which the stolen, squandered public property can be recovered on the one hand, but, perhaps more importantly, those responsible should be brought to justice. And I have to say, this is a good example because, as I say, we are not talking about the complaints of opposition representatives, we are talking about the complaints of a government body, and also a body for control. And by the way, I was disappointed, Mr. Attorney General, that I would have expected that, if there had been such statistics and statements in connection with both the 66 cases, I might have included in the question where this could be achieved, because as a matter of common interest, we could put this on the Internet, because there is no secret in it - at least in which cases it has not lapsed, you can do this to me, to my knowledge, to order the review of these investigations or prosecutorial decisions, in case it could happen in one or two cases that the prosecution could still go to the indictment stage. From there, the court decides, of course, the quality of the indictment is very important if we want to go through with the accountability. I didn't get the answer to that. I am very confident that this could be implemented in the future. I must also say that it may also be a system failure or a system failure, because there have been cases involving, by the way, socialist governments, and the crime would have stopped there. So, on the one hand, we obviously don't see color blindness going 100 percent on the part of the prosecution, but in many cases there are system failures in investigating corruption cases. But it would be nice to move forward in both areas. It's like a lot of times, it's not a system error, it's when a report comes in, like when a horse's pile asks your son to try the horse you're looking for, whether it's good or not. Then the boy hesitates, and his father asks you why you're skeptical, why you don't leave, and he says I don't know how to ride that horse for sale or sale. [[Demercation from the benches of opposition parties.]] And we often feel that it doesn't matter who the report concerns, how it affects, and so does the investigating authorities, and not only the prosecutor's office, but I might add, the investigating authorities are unfortunately trying to find out first that they're riding that horse for sale or sale. They obviously understand the parallel. [[Dr. István Tiba takes the notary seat.]] And what could be changed, for example, is again addressed to the Parliament, to the present, not too large a number of pro-government representatives, that not only the independence of the prosecutor's system from the government, because there is an important cornerstone of this, but also the independence of the negotiators. In a normally functioning system, I think the decisive word should be spoken by the prosecutor who is at the courthouse who is negotiating a case and who can decide whether to appeal, appeal or even appeal if he believes that the decision of the court in the other direction was wrong. The point is that the case is to become the negotiator's attorney as much as possible, and not a superior prosecutor in a system of command can say that the case, let's say, has to be dropped or appealed even if, let's say, the prosecutor's conviction is different. So I have to say, we'd be moving forward with this, too, if the negotiators had their independence, and they'd only be subject to the law. At the end of this, I must also say that I have to bring up what we have also pushed and criticized several times, and, moreover, I have asked the Attorney General in writing in this regard that we have seen, since it is already the tenth anniversary of the events of 2006, that, in connection with the shameful participation of prosecutors in it, responsibility has not been established in any way within the prosecutor's system. In his reply, the Attorney General indicated that yes, there were errors, so obviously this cannot be undone or denied, but the prosecutor's office concluded that these were system failures, individual errors; because of the heavy workload of the big autumn events in 2006, the workload here is meant to have a large number of people taken in and had to be arrested, for example - problems have occurred, but the orders of the superior prosecutors on lawlessness have not been detected. I am very sorry that this has not been shown, although the sign shows that in 2006 there was an act by the prosecutors, which could not only be an ethical disciplinary offence, because I know that they have been overdue, so they could not necessarily have been disturbed after ten years or even after 2010, after the change of government, but I think that crimes would have stopped if they had. Obviously, I cannot determine the depth of this examination from the outside, but in the case of such mass infringements, we cannot be satisfied with the answer that there were some individual errors at the time and just about when its mass was completely obvious. So I have to say, it's almost clear that these instructions came from above. And if it weren't for its criminal liability... - since disciplinary liability can no longer be established, so it couldn't even come to the fore, then I would have expected at least if we had known within the prosecutor's system who made these mistakes -- let's call them mistakes -- and let's say, in their system of advancement, this would have been a decisive criterion. I'm afraid that wasn't the case, so that after 2010, there wasn't a course for anyone who, let's say, was involved in such ignominious mass violations, if there was no criminal prosecution, at least stay where he was and not become a prosecutor's leader. [[12.50]] Unfortunately, we couldn't know that either, but my time is up, so I'm waiting for the Attorney General's answer. Thank you. [[Dr. Csaba Gyüre applauds.]]
u2016-12-07-42	I give the floor to Congressman László Teleki.
u2016-12-07-43	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen of the Attorney General and Colleagues, I think I have already said the subject that I would like to talk about at the committee meeting, but I think it is very important that it should be discussed again in plenary, too, because the Attorney General may understand what I am talking about when I am talking about the situation of Roma in Hungary, and now not about education or employment or health care, but about corruption that is visible at the moment, and which has brought the assessment of Roma in Hungary to a low point in Hungary. Not only am I saying this, the corruption that we have seen from the national government in the last year and the previous years has brought down the perception of Gypsy in Hungary, but these professional materials have also appeared at international level, which show what shortcomings have been in recent years. Therefore, I think it is very important to note that your work can determine whether the question that society rightly expects of you is being met; whether it is being carried out at such a level that suspicious purchases that have appeared around the national government - and I now know that there are investigations, and, as it has been said at the committee meeting, there is supposed to be something going on this month about whether the indictment will start or not - we can get an answer. They're late. They are late because, in the past period, it is certainly thanks to you, too, because you have not said the verdict that would give you guidance on whether there really was a crime that should have been prosecuted or not, because then you would have assured the Hungarian society that there was no crime. But when I say these things, let me tell you a few specific things. The HUF 1.6 billion that EMMI, Minister Zoltán Balog, stopped, is certainly a remarkable sum, not because of its size, but because it could finance a programme that is exactly what the Roma feel best about their skin that they cannot find a job. This program called the "Bridge for Work" has been stalled or collapsed if I should like to say it in style, it collapsed because the money was not blocked, but disappeared, and yet the National Roma Municipality was given the opportunity to carry out a financial restructuring. How can a financial reschedule take place when a sum of money disappears? This is a Hungarian resource and a European Union resource. Because in this case, in the case of a crime, I think that if it is a crime, then it cannot be a reschedule, but it should be rescheduled so that 500 thousand forints per month by March 2017 and the remaining amount, which is more than 1.5 billion forints, should be repaid in one amount in the summer of 2017. This would be right if we did not see the luxurious spending in the national government that we have seen in the past year and now, the luxury expenses that Audi, for example, does not know how many of their Opels have been converted into; I think they indicate that there is a legitimate need for society to do something here. The other question is, if the amount of money I have already mentioned is financed at this rate, the HUF 1.6 billion, how will the programme be implemented? How can the programme that would have increased the opportunities for Roma employment be implemented? The answer is simple: it doesn't. However, you have not yet opened the question of whether or not there will be an indictment in this case, because it can be seen that, given the employment disadvantage, the perception of the Roma is certainly much worse than it has been in the past. My fellow Member, Ákos Hadházy, said about the purchase and rental of cars, which were Opel cars, and last year this also caused a lot of dust. I think it is clear that there is no such waste of money, but that means that it is assisted either by the prosecutor's office or by politics that it will be allowed to continue and that this process will not be stopped. Once again, in December 2016, you may say that you are going to press charges, but it will be too late to calm down Hungarian society, because the problem has definitely been very big in the last year. And I'd go on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and Now there has been a report in the case of the company that he will report the National Roma Municipality, because he cannot pay him tens of millions of forints. Students - so that my fellow Members would know if they didn't know - bought new computers, laptops, and students didn't get them, but the computer was delivered. So the question is, where are the computers, how is this company going to get the rightful money he's put on the machines, by the way? They all raise questions, and I think they are legitimate questions. As a result, I think it is also possible to see that a Hungarian entrepreneur has been put in a bad position in the National Roma Municipality, where, by the way, you should have initiated an ex officio procedure on how it could have happened. My legal knowledge may not include the need to press charges, otherwise there has been a report, but we do not see the end of it whether anything has happened in this case. Office furniture in tens of millions forints, nearly a hundred million forints, also, the rental of county offices - this is a separate category. In previous years, representatives of the National Roma Municipality rented offices in their own apartment for 400-500 thousand HUF. [[Dr. Gergely Bárándy: Scandalous scandal!]] I'd like to ask the Deputy Attorney General: is that all right? Is it okay when, by the way, I say it again, and I will say it several times, is the perception of Gypsy in Hungary the way it is? It's not right, because we need to stop the situation that is there, and if politics doesn't want to stop the misrepresentation that we see in the National Roma Municipality, then you should be able to stop it on your own initiative, because I would help society and otherwise help the Roma in Hungary, I would add, because the Roma in Hungary would be much better able to prevail in this country if they saw that there would be proceedings in such cases. Buildings: I wouldn't go too far, but numerous press reports have been published around the purchase of buildings, and we didn't see any progress in this either, which would have shown that luxury villas can't be bought today in Buda and other things, otherwise, when the livelihood of Gypsyness in Hungary is what it is, and it can be said that these people, Mr. Assistant Prosecutor, can't get enough of bread, and on the other hand, we see that Buda villas are rented and bought for offices. I think it's absolutely outrageous and repulsive. It could be mentioned, because here I have listed about 30 more of these spendings, which have been seen and experienced in the national government in recent years, but I do not think that I will list them all because I do not want to waste their time, but one thing is certain: Flórian Farkas should be sitting here today. And I see that my fellow Member Ákos Hadházy has come back, and I would like to tell him not to exaggerate when he says that Flórian Farkas is coming to Parliament every day. [[Defiance in the ranks of the MSZP.]] Dear fellow Member, He's not here today, by the way. [[Lajos Korózs: He comes in on paydays!]] He wasn't here on the day of the debate on education, he wasn't here on the day of the employment debate, and I would say he wasn't here on the EU debate day, so let's not go overboard. [[Dr. Gergely Bárándy: He was stealing!]] If you are not here on the most important day of debate and, by the way, after the vote you leave the hall, it is, I think, in any case, you will qualify your work and your work as the owner of the bread tax, because you will allow Florian Farkas as a Prime Minister's representative or as a ministerial representative, not to mention that you are a listed Member of Parliament, as I do, so I think that it is possible to change that. [[13.00]] But it's not about Flórian Farkas, it's about the situation of Gypsy in Hungary. You know, I don't want to synchronize the fact that a lot of poor people - I don't say that Roma, poor people - are being punished for it - and it may be that they are being punished by an indictment proposal, not in court, but by the police - because their bicycles are being used without lighting in the dark. It is a legitimate punishment, not to say no, but when the Roma in the village of Zalakamar receive a penalty of HUF 50,000, because their bicycle is not illuminated, it is not synchronized, it is not placed in the position of spending money in the National Roma Municipality. And I'm not talking about what you've heard these days, which, I think, is quite trivial, is that a 70-year-old man was arrested for pushing some branches on a bicycle, so he's already been prosecuted. I would like to point out that very many Roma have been punished for this last year and the year before. Not acquitted, however, it is not synchronized with the hundreds of thousands of millions of forints of money spent that we can see how they can receive tens of thousands of forints of penalties, while the same values are not presented on the other side. So they're not trying to handle things in proportion, and I think it's a very big mistake. Today, when I left here this morning, I saw - this is also part of the report, by the way, even if not very narrowly, but certainly - that yesterday the PISA survey showed how the Hungarian students performed, and it was soon brought out that this survey result was due to the most disadvantaged. Here's what I'm talking about: the money and the tools that should get to, say, the most disadvantaged in education, let them be squandered or stolen by crime. Don't let him, because with this whole society, if you will, we'll put him in a position to explain. It must be explained to the majority society that my tax-paying money, I would like it to be translated for a purpose that actually pays off, and that the Roma community, those who belong to poverty, would also like to see that their money and aid - or whatever you might call it - can get public employment to him, because there are decent taxpayers. Therefore, I think that Roma in Hungary and poor people should be protected by you, too, so that their perceptions change. Believe me, this is not just a political issue, but your professional question is whether it can change. Because at the political, governmental level, it does not appear that they want a very resting point on this issue, because it can be seen that if they had wanted to, they could have already taken political steps to guide either the National Roma Municipality or Flórian Farkas, and then perhaps our situation today would be completely different in education, employment or housing, not to mention health care. Therefore, Deputy Attorney General, I would like to ask you that what I have said should be dealt with in its place. I did not say that I wanted to see Florian Farkas on the bench of the accused tomorrow, but I think that, in the interests of Gypsy in Hungary, we must find those sinners if there are those who have made the spending of money that could in any event harm the Roma population, because they also feel the disadvantage now in the settlements, especially the smaller settlements, and the soothing of the majority society is also up to you, and I do not want to put a great burden on you, but it is also your responsibility to know how much they want to declare results on this issue in the next period, or just to say that nothing has happened. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2016-12-07-44	I now give the floor to Congressman Tamás Bellozó.
u2016-12-07-45	Thank you for the floor. Dear Parliament, The Szeged District Court has set up a very interesting criminal case. The assets of a sports company in Kecskemét under the mayorship of Gábor Sombor were stolen in an unprecedented manner. After four years of investigation, the D.A. has charged six people with a particularly high level of misappropriation, including Attila Vörösmarty, former president and faction leader of Fidesz Kecskemét, former campaign chief of Zombor. A total of HUF 452 million was transferred from the municipal company through fictitious accounts, and more than HUF 335 million was paid out by its suppliers. This unrecoverable damage is more than ten times the Zuschlag case in total. According to the prosecutor's office, despite the fact that Sombor's confidant, Vörösmarty organised the management of the entire sports company, i.e. the deliberate tax and tax evasion, fictitious companies billed the local sports company for marketing activities, and then put part of the money in the pocket of the players, of course, Sombor and his deputy mayors, as well as the municipal finance department, knew nothing about this for years. Gábor Zombor said that in 2009, when KSE Kft. operated sports associations in Kecskemét. announced that an exemplary model had been created for the municipality. It was also clear in the case that the person who wanted local government work and ordering in Kecskemét had to refer to KSE Kft. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Major companies are among the sponsors, such as Mahíd 2000 Kft. owned by Vegyépszer, Saubermacher Magyarország Kft., Mega-Sped Kft. or Duna Aszfalt, the Duna Aszfalt Kft., which has recently gained a great deal of work, can be linked to Mr Mészáros, to mention only companies with major city orders. These clear links were not investigated by the D.A. during the investigation, i.e. whether, for example, there was an influence on the part of the city's management. The system was well prosperous, and almost one billion HUF passed through the sports company's account, while the costs amounted to 200-300 million HUF, and handball players and volleyball players barely received a salary and filed a lawsuit for their missed earnings. The money flowed through hand-to-hand, fictitious accounts, which appeared to be only one supervisory board member who wanted to look into the management of the local sports company for months, but both the company's manager and Sombor were avoiding it. Why, if they had a clear conscience? The scandal was inevitable, the players were not paid, and the billing marketing companies turned out that one was a timber company in Pécs, and the other was registered in a small house in Kocsér, a construction company. Sombor therefore quickly brought together a municipal inquiry committee, which tried to smear the case despite the fact that there was an account of which both had the same serial number. Finally, the case was prosecuted, but the Bács-Kiskun County Attorney General's Office did not carry out investigations without delay, i.e. that KSE Kft. does not occupy it. His bookkeeping, avoiding subsequent cosmetics, removals of documents, was biased, and the investigation was carried out in Szeged by the same district attorney Zsolt Kopasz, who was still in Kecskemét at the time of bias, as he was the Deputy Attorney General of the county. And after he graciously completed KSE Kft. His investigation, Csongrád County Attorney General. What if it's not a conflict of interest? How could the conflict of interest be resolved, we might ask, "though the county has been replaced, the person has become the same in the other county? It is true that the responsibility of Mayor Gábor Sombor, then deputy mayor of Szemereyné Pataki Klaudia, currently the mayor of Kecskemét, and the head of the financial department, who is currently the chancellor of the Matolcsy Foundation Empire. He passed the test, he did a good job, you can see that. However, the prosecutor's office was also kind to the defendants, since the burden of this cheating treatment of HUF 800 million was not in custody for a single minute, which, at this amount, was very unique to the sentence. For washing these three people clean, the D.A.'s office was also able not to prosecute a clear complaint relating to the case. This case is a Zombor Gábor and KSE Kft. Between 2007 and 2010, there was a contract for youth sport support, amounting to HUF 54 million. According to the notice, this could only have been used and accounted for specific purposes listed in the notice. However, Fictitious marketing accounts were also shown in the settlement of this money, which was clearly against the rules. The Supreme Public Prosecutor's Office has ordered an investigation into the case and, on account of bias, has re-sent the documents to the Szeged District and Investigative Prosecutor's Office. [[13.10]] However, the prosecutor's office, seeing the actors, sent it to the court judge of KSE Kft., who is already in court, saying that this is part of the criminal case, while the criminal rating of the two proceedings and the main actors are different. The case was thus absorbed in a devious manner, since there is not a single line in the indictment of this youth sport grant, nor is it part of the lawsuit despite the justification. This crime is gone. It can't be, because both the criminal rating and the actors, I repeat, are different from the case where the criminal proceedings and the judicial profession are already taking place. These facts, however, do not interest the prosecutor's office. Fidesz leading politicians must be washed at all costs. Definitely bias can be achieved in this matter, too, Mr Attorney General, eloquent proof and support of everything that my colleague Barándy and I have said in our keynote speech. Thank you for listening.
u2016-12-07-46	I now give the floor to Congresswoman Ildikó Bangóné Borbély.
u2016-12-07-47	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of the Attorney General, Dear fellow Members, In the main speaker's speech, the Esos case has already been mentioned, and I would like to talk more about it, because the county of Szabolcs-Szatmár-Bereg, the county of Hajdú-Bihar and the county of Szolnok are affected, and unfortunately, after more than a year, we have not been able to make any progress in this matter. And I'll tell you honestly, Mr. Attorney General, I'm surprised. I'm not an authority, I'm not a investigating authority, but I've been visiting about a thousand victims, and I've had very interesting experiences. And we know that the case has been ordered, so to speak, but I have not heard that one victim would have been approached by the police, even though if the police had listened to the same things that we - and I can say that with common sense, listening to and considering - would have solved the case. It should be remembered that at the end of 2014, a Gremium decided to grant this almost HUF 3 billion grant, including Viktor Orbán, János Lázár, Minister of Sheszták and Mihály Varga himself. The fact that Esos will receive this support and not another hundred cooperatives - and this is the only cooperative that could get it in Hungary - has been decided by this Gremium. Then, when the project was launched, everyone thought that, by the way - if we read the tender itself - an extremely good idea would be implemented, which Minister Sándor Fazekas had to support, he had to sign a cooperation agreement with the cooperative, because there was also a need for state forestry, because the works should have been created in the area of state forestry. The EMMI paid Esos about HUF 1.5 billion in funding, and this is also important because, after the scandal broke out, even repeated aid payments were made, the Ministry itself knew that there were abuses in the implementation of the EU proposal. Then a series of press conferences, in Parliamentary genres, after immediate questions, interviews, the EMMI decided that on 22 September 2015 the grant agreement with Esos had been terminated, an investigation was carried out which resulted in the termination of the contract. In the county of Hajdú-Bihar, the president of the Socialist Party of Hajdú-Bihar County, the local leader, filed a complaint, and do you know what happened, Mr. Attorney General? That he was transferred from one NAV assignment to another. That's all that happened in a year. They started pushing files, while the courts made the decision for about a thousand victims to pay their wages. And that's what happened in the investigation. We moved it from one branch to another. Minister of State Nándor Csepreghy has repeatedly made a sacred vow here in Parliament to settle the cause of the victims, and last week a resolution was published in the Hungarian Gazette, where the government declared the Eszost a prime partner, so that it could avoid the courts and finally start the compensation. Mr. Attorney General, this round, if we don't get along with the courts, we're gonna make a government decision so we can avoid getting the compensation started? What you don't understand, I've talked to a thousand victims, they've told me how the unemployed have been directed to Esos, how the Fidesz mayors have persuaded them, how they've been threatened, how they've been dealt with, how the aid has been paid - by the way we're talking about European Union funds - it's clear that there's a crime of fraud, why it's not clear to the authorities. I hope you can answer that, Mr. Attorney General. Another case where I'd like to read some newspaper articles. Before that, I'd like to ask Mr. Attorney General more questions. Who's Antal Rogán? [[Dr. Péter Polt speaking with Dr. Erin Belovich.]] I asked you the question, Mr. Attorney General, and I would like you to be able to answer in your rejoinder. Who's Antal Rogán? Why is this man holy and inviolable in Hungary? What else would you have to do to investigate him at all? What should happen in Hungary to prosecute this man? And then I would like to read an article to Mr. Attorney General: In vain, Tamás Portik, who was convicted as the instigator of the Priszt murder in the court, had handed over EUR 10 million on behalf of Pope Marianne to Antal Rogán, the D.A. has not opened an investigation into the case. The Central Investigator's Attorney General rejected the complaint made by István Fideszes on suspicion of accepting a bribe. His facts turned to the prosecutor's office after Tamás Portik heard Tamás as a witness in the middle of June in the legal suit between Minister Antal Rogán and Péter Juhász, Vice-President of the Joint. Among other things, the investigating authority rejected the complaint because, in his view, the reality of Tamás Portik's statement is already highly doubtful in itself, but the data obtained in the course of the report also points to this. According to the decision rejecting the complaint, for example, Portik first named a party office on the narrow street near the Central Coffee House as the location for the transfer of money. The D.A.'s office has made interesting statements. Portik also claims that the amount of money transferred is unviable and worrying about the amount of the undue advantage, because Portik indicated that the specific amount was EUR 10 million, and according to the Central Investigator's Attorney General's Office, he did not say anything concrete beyond the statement to raise doubts about the amount. In his statement, Tamás Portik did not mention the exact amount of euro, its source, denomination, or other features that would fill his statement with content and make it credible. Finally, the prosecutor's office concluded that there are reasonable doubts about the reality of Tamás Portik's statement that there is no legitimate basis for the investigation to be ordered legally. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. [[Dr. Gergely Bárándy intervenes.]] Then another article appeared: "For the time being, there is no investigation into another bribe given to Antal Rogán. Also the same person made an announcement after an interview with a fourth-order defendant in a criminal case against László Vizoviczki. As mayor of Antal Rogán - not Minister - he took 4 million HUF bribes to allow the opening of the V. district terraces other than the disco. He said that when he was questioned, the prosecutors laughed at him when he asked when Antal Rogán could be on the bench. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. [[13.20]] Mr. Attorney General. Who's Antal Rogán? Who is this man? And what must you or one of your coworkers or other people within the benches of Fidesz be afraid of not being prosecuted? What else should happen in this country to prosecute Fidesz politicians? [[Lajos Korózs: This will be your undoing!]] I hope you'll respond, Mr. Attorney General, because we could talk about this case for hours. There's another case. [[Lajos Korózs: Toy machines!]] We can't even tell you all about the Quaestor case, Mr. Attorney General. We're talking about 32,000 victims. There have been reports that the decision of Quaestor itself or its bankruptcy itself was the result of a very quick withdrawal of a lot of money. Interestingly, if you look at a list of government agencies and Fidesz-related politicians in the press, [[Dr. Pál Völner: Gyurcsány!]] who, very quickly, have taken very high amounts of money for a certain news. On 10 March 2015, the Hungarian National Bank partially suspended Quaestor Securities Trading and Investment Ltd. the authorisation of its activities. In their communication at the time, it was stated that the Hungarian National Bank had detected irregularities in the company during its target investigation, which is why Quaestor had partially suspended its business license. The National Bureau of Investigation conducted an investigation into an unidentified unsub on suspicion of fraud on 11 March, but Csaba Tarsoly was only detained on 26 March. Can you tell us anything about what happened between 11 March and 26 March? Why did it take time for the arrest to take place? In the meantime, we can say that Csaba Tarsoly had time and opportunity to put a stromant on the head of the Quaestor company in the person of a public worker. The D.C. Attorney General, who, in a public-interest criminal case, called the court of trial a rattle-hip clown, criticized the Metropolitan Tribunal and the judge at a press conference in a sharp, harsh, personalistic style in the Quaestor case, which the court did not leave without a word. About the scandal, an Internet news portal wrote: On Tuesday, the Metropolitan Court rejected the statements of the Supreme Attorney General Tibor Ibolya in Quaestor concerning the authority of the court and the determining judge, pointing out the position of the Attorney General which they considered professionally wrong. The Court's statement on the dispute in the Quaestor case in recent days states that Tibor Ibolya, in an unprecedented manner, is no longer the first time attacking the Metropolitan Tribunal through the press. The court finds it unacceptable and, most definitely, rejects the fact that the Chief Prosecutor of the capital is making a statement to the public and allows him to take a position which does not merely lack the factual and professional basis, but that his personal remarks regarding the ability of the President of the judicial council to read quickly and to negotiate are a violation of the authority of the Metropolitan Tribunal and of the determining judge. I'd like to ask the Attorney General one more question. Does it have anything to do with the Quaestor case with the Attorney General? Are you involved in the Quaestor case? Will there ever be a hearing in court for you personally or for anyone who belongs to you? Will the Hungarian court get there that what is written in newspapers and is written almost as a fact for Hungarian citizens, let us say that they still believe in the court, believe in the prosecutor's office, will ever happen in Hungary? I would like to believe, Mr. Attorney General, that I may be naive, but I would like to believe that yes, this will happen once, because you will not be forever protected. Mr. Attorney General, once it's all over, so is immunity, and I'd like you to hold on to that, that you won't be protected forever, not even you. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2016-12-07-48	I give the floor to Congresswoman Anita Heringes.
u2016-12-07-49	Thank you very much for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, The biggest problem, I think, is that the pro-government representatives do not feel the responsibility they have for keeping this country here today, because most of the rural population and the good people have already lost their faith in being able to live normally in this country. They feel like they're in a fairy tale where small kings, pudgy landlords, princesses on their own feet lead the country, and we change laws at their convenience, independent bodies work, and their pleasure and well-being, their growth has been the main goal for the past six years. Fidesz small kings are seen everywhere in the country, who think they can do everything they can today, because there is no independent body, this is what the residents feel, there is no body where they can sit as leaders with a non-fidesz party book. Because I think the D.A.'s office is part of the justice system, and that belief in justice is becoming increasingly shaken in small people, the prosecution has a huge responsibility. Of course, you can refer to statistics about how much more people trust the prosecution's work, but that's not what you feel when you're walking down the street. If you go through the market, people don't talk about it like that, they just wave at you and say that if there is a change of government, or if things change, it might be different. If our fellow Members had some sense of responsibility, they would sit here and list these cases because they would say that they would not sit in the same row with these people and would not be willing to work in the same group as these people who have such questions. It can be terrible sometimes that people have less faith and less faith in how it can be better, but I can say, as my colleague said, that it can be better because it will all be over someday, honourable Members. I really do not wish for Members who do not take responsibility for certain matters so that their grandchildren will be ashamed of them when they read their names in the history books about certain matters. I was talking about the fairy tale world because we really live in a fairy tale world, my honourable fellow Members, because there are Voldemorts sitting in the benches here. We don't know how many of them, either, but one probably, a Voldemort is probably sitting. It's funny and cozy because anyone who knows the Harry Potter novels well knows that Voldemort was the absolute villain of the novel series, the greatest hero, the greatest villain of whom all you had to know was that you shouldn't say your name, because he was so afraid of the other characters in the fairy tale world who were at Harry Potter. Probably the people who are now a suspect in an investigation didn't know that his name shouldn't be said, because we can read it in records and listen to his name in phone conversations. They probably didn't know that only the Voldemort term should be used, and that their full name, civic name, should not be used, although many of the small kings probably believe that immunity will protect them for four years, and they are very hopeful that if they serve the great kings, the great men, they will defend their immunity for four and four more years. [[13.30]] There's this Voldemort case, which has a lot of storytelling going on, because the NAV guys would do their job, as they do, and what they have to do is pay for it. They're there at the moment, making records, recordings, and videos when the bribes are being handed over, and then somehow they're not allowed to act. It's a story-telling turn of events that if you read it to a child, you'd probably end up having a positive ring to it, because we don't read a story that ends badly. Somehow, this story breaks at the wrong end, and just when you can take the steps, nothing happens. This is the case where the whole country smiles that there are constitutional costs and success fees, ten million forints must be paid to have a ministry put up a tender for social cooperatives' network, because someone will figure it out in Nógrád county, that it would be necessary for such a social cooperative tender to be launched, and then, well, when someone figures it out, the EMMI will write it out because there are such miracles. And then, after the call is made, telephone conversations take place, which have been recorded since then, some of which are no longer secret, and we can listen to these people talk about how much money they have to pay in advance, and how much money they will have to pay back, which is 10 million forints in total. At first, only 50 percent of the total winning amount will have to be repaid in such e-learning and consulting and workshop solutions, and then 90 percent at the very end, and then more people will scratch their heads about how to do the project for 10 percent. So we really do live in a fairy tale world, my honourable Members, because if we didn't read it in such protocols, we wouldn't believe that there was such a thing. Some people in Hungary really think that they can do anything because there was a two-thirds majority behind them. [[Dr. Gergely Bárándy: That's what it is!]] So they can say anything, anytime, anyone, anything? ! Can they also say that they will arrange to win a tender? They throw 500 million forints here and there? Just so there's more to take home? [[Dr. Tamás Bellozó: Shame!]] Ladies and gentlemen, [[Dr. Gergely Bárándy: It won't always be like this!]] This case also shows that we are moving very, very towards corruption, and the only good fortune for this country is that, by the way, it is a Christian country that still has faith in how this can change. And if you have faith, you can change that in 2018, and then a lot of our fellow Members will be watching the floor, because their immunity will no longer protect them in this matter, and otherwise the prosecution will not be able to save them in this matter. What I think is very, very important to say about this thing is that it really is just a bad-end story right now, and what we see is that the prosecution cannot see through either the laws or the law, the legal mazes, the political mazes and friendly relations, and it cannot help in this matter and it cannot take the right steps. If such things could happen, which we would not believe as adults, because we no longer believe in fairy tales, then today I would present to Attorney General Péter Polt all the spells and spells of Harry Potter, in case he finds a solution to this. [[He's showing me a folder.]] They're listed for what to use. For example, the capitulate disarming spell would probably have helped him very, very much, so that he could get the object that you're pointing at out of his hands. If you had taken that plastic bag out of your hand at the point where the NAV detectives were standing there watching it, and let's just say the constitutional cost would have freaked out, we might have moved forward. So I'm gonna hand this over, see if it helps, if the law, legality and justice at the moment, we see that it doesn't help, then maybe the spells, maybe the spells, and then this fairy tale can have a wonderful end, where evil gets its punishment. Thank you.
u2016-12-07-50	Ladies and gentlemen, I'll see if anyone else wants to tell me. [[For signal:]] Yes, this is Gergő Bárándy in a two-minute time frame. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2016-12-07-51	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to add a little bit to what Congresswoman has just said, and that is the opinion of the prosecution. I also believe that there is one reason why such a good thing is that the prosecution's work is seen in everyday law enforcement work by people and classified accordingly. Because the state propaganda machine carefully conceals the link between institutional state corruption and the inaction of the prosecution, the fact that it is possible to steal billions of dollars without penalty in Hungary today because you do not do things, and I must even say that you are promoting this activity. That's all. That's the positive opinion of the D.A., and that's the reason, I think. I would be very curious, Mr Attorney General, because, obviously, you are the head of this prosecutor's office, and I must say that you are the main person responsible for the fact that this is happening in Hungary today, what would be the result of the survey on you personally. A lot of people are already linking your name and your activities to these cases and to the lack of procedures. It would probably reflect reality rather than the statistics you've put forward. Thank you very much.
u2016-12-07-52	Thank you. I'm asking if anyone else would like to comment on the agenda. [[No signal.]] I do not see a candidate, so the joint general debate is closed. I will ask Mr Péter Polt, Attorney General, if he wishes to respond to what has been said. [[On Dr. Péter Polt's signal:]] Yeah. So you have the floor, Mr. Attorney General.
u2016-12-07-53	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr President, Dear House, When the Attorney General reports to Parliament, he fulfils his constitutional obligation. The legislation describes exactly what it can do, what it can say, and what it means and what the meaning of Parliament's report is. I think that this is an important tool for a system of power-sharing, an instrument where Parliament can exercise its control function. However, it is also a fact that it can carry out this verification function with regard to the accounts. A very significant part of what has been said here is that the vast majority did not deal with the 2015 report of the Hungarian Public Prosecutor's Office, but dealt with either specific cases or general findings or some personal comments. So, if you do not resent this, and you cannot resent it, because this is in accordance with the laws of Hungary, I will answer what is the purpose, task and framework of this meeting which is required by the law. Other means of representation are also available at any time for specific cases. I have not heard any criticisms about the 2015 report that the Attorney General or the Public Prosecutor's Office has failed to fulfil this obligation. [[Dr. Gergely Bárándy: That's what we talked about!]] And that alone makes me happy. I don't know what Congressman was talking about, and I said that we answered everything we were asked about. So, in summary, what did not happen in 2015 or is not the subject of the 2015 report, which concerned legislation, which is part of the legislative framework, and which the prosecution has no impact on, as regards the measure, decision or control instrument issued by the government or other authority, and which, as far as personal comments are concerned, I do not wish to answer, nor can I answer, because I do not have a constitutional power to do so. You talked about a lot of things, one thing you didn't really talk about, and this is that there are legal frameworks. There are laws from the Fundamental Law to regulations or instructions. Hungary is a rule of law, and in a rule of law, the prosecutor's office does what is required by law. There's a law. [[Dr. Gergely Bárándy: That's what we asked for.]] , there is legality, and the requirement of legality requires who can be held accountable or not held accountable for why, how, how in order. [[13.40]] I understand that, from a political point of view, this story may look different. If a political view believes that responsibility should be established on the other side, it will resent that this is not the case, and it will also prejudice the fact that it is on his side, but this is a policy, and I do not want to deal with it, and I do not simply wish to deal with it, but I cannot deal with it. That's all I wanted to say in chief because it seems to me that today's monitoring parliamentary meeting, which has an important function, has taken a direction that I cannot say much about under the law. [[Dr. Gergely Bárándy: That's not true! We disagree.]] Of course, I'll do what I can. I also regretted the lack of awareness of the comments in some respects. I am only pointing out one or two examples, and I am doing this because I think that a meaningful debate on the activities of an organisation can be held, a good answer can be given if the questions are also good questions and do not ignore facts and - which is very important in this case - legislation. A few examples: Here, Mr Barándy gave a long example of the legal accusation, saying that it has been an important institution for decades, and why the Curia is thinking about it now. This is not, in fact, quite the way you said it, Congressman. This institution has existed since 2005 [[Dr. Gergely Bárándy: It's in the 2015 report.]] Not for decades, and the reason the Curia has dealt with it is because it has not been found so far, and now it is really a question that must be addressed, but not because the prosecution's prosecution practice would violate the requirements of legal prosecution. If the Member had been a little informed and looked into it, he would have found the fact that in 2015 the court declared the absence of a legal charge in two cases, in total of three defendants. If we've done so much here with the various percentages, I have to add to this fact that this is 99.99 percent success for the prosecution regarding the legal charge. [[Dr. Gergely Bárándy: It doesn't matter what matters!]] I think we shouldn't go on with this, no matter how much I don't like it. [[Z. Kárpát, Dániel: The essence is elegance.]] Member Barándy also mentioned OLAF's relationship with OLAF or non-relationship. I think the facts here speak for themselves. The relationship with OLAF was excellent in 2015 as well, and we cooperate very closely. In all OLAF-mediated cases, the investigation was initiated in accordance with OLAF's motion. We have also found that the European trend does not differ a bit from the rate of indictment in these cases. It's not different, it's better than many countries. Besides, I can name the person who considers excellent cooperation, because it is Giovanni Kessler, Director General of OLAF. Such unknown persons that a high leader said that I couldn't give you that. [[Dr. Gergely Bárándy: I'll send you his name.]] I can give you what OLAF's boss has told me and my colleagues personally, Congressman. I would like to point out that this does not mean that only the prosecutor can represent a criminal demand. The word should have been interpreted as a representative of the state's criminal claim. In 2004, the Constitutional Court stated precisely in this regard that no other public body could enforce criminal law, except the Public Prosecutor's Office. So this applies to public bodies, Congressman, and not to individuals. This is covered by the institution of the supplementary private company, any individual may enforce a criminal claim before the courts, provided that other legal requirements are met. But I have talked about it, and it is related to the right to complain, as you have mentioned, about what framework it provides for the complaint, the legal framework, and it can hardly be, just as other speakers have repeatedly called into account various legislative provisions or the lack of them. I think you're talking about this in the right place, you're the legislators. These rules must be created, amended or repealed by you. With regard to specific matters, I think that we can only talk here about what is a concrete issue in 2015. You've mentioned a lot of cases that are going on, either in an investigative field or in a court of law. I suggest that we either wait for the end of these cases, or use the means of representation at your disposal, obviously if this is still possible and the case is not in court. I would say to Congressman Gyüre that there is indeed a difference between the results of the prosecution and the effectiveness of the appeal, but not as much as you mentioned. [[13.50]] Second-degree appeal effectiveness is overall above 52 percent, and third-level appeal is 59 percent. [[Dániel Z. Kárpát: Your data was quoted by my fellow Member.]] That's another thing you said. Let's be precise. I think that this is an essential requirement in the application of the law, and the prosecutor's office cannot deviate from that. What you're saying is probably an appeal for an exaggeration, not an appeal. There's a difference between the two. The effectiveness of an appeal involves more than an appeal for aggravating in itself. But you mentioned this number. If we run along, I will mention only the points that can be answered here by each Member. Congressman Bárándy mentioned that there are two types of prosecutors. It's not the first time you've done this. You probably think there's a bad prosecutor who's embodying me, and a good prosecutor who gets the results. You mentioned that I'm responsible for everything that's inside the D.A.'s office, but if I understand correctly, I'm not responsible for the good results. I believe that I take responsibility for all of them as provided for in the Fundamental Law and the Law on Public Prosecutorship. I don't think we think the same thing. Conception procedures. The fact that this is a political category and not a legal category is hardly an explanation. This may also have been very clear from the speech by Mr Staudt, who also saw shortcomings in the practice of the prosecutor's office. It is true that he mentioned Kehi as a complaint and, among other things, identified cases under previous governments as the subject of the complaint. I think that this comparison alone shows that we should be careful with these statements. Politically, of course, everything can be said: legally, we do not make any difference, and with us, all cases are considered the same. I said I wasn't talking about specific matters. I don't even want to do this, I just want to say that there are cases where there are cases where there can be no exception, even in the investigation, to what the case law is in Hungary, or whether the court has already said something that might affect the course of the case. I think that the prosecution, as a law enforcement officer, is doing the right thing by taking this into account. This has happened in many of the cases you have mentioned, for example, in this particular bald case. To whom you can respond without violating the principles that I said at the beginning: let us take an example of other countries. I do not know whether it is worth giving examples of other structures and other achievements in other countries, especially when we are talking about results that may be called into question, for example, by the Constitutional Court decisions. I believe that the good example, best practice, is always important, but to quote something that is the way forward is very dangerous if we do not look at it in a complex way. I would like to say that I do not wish to deal with Mr Hadházy's comments at all, but I would like to say that he has been very critical of the House in this pulpit that he is not present in such an important matter. I can't see him now. [[Anita Herring: We're here!]] I'm sorry, I'm talking about the guy who said this here, and he's not here, and he's the lead fighter for what he stands for, and I thought he might be interested in what I'm saying about what he led me to. But this did not happen, so I am forced to question the seriousness of this whole comment. I'm not even talking about how far we've come when there's something about this place that says between two dogs what the dog's owner - I assume - tells me - and visits me, where I don't even know what attitude I'm in. Between the walls of this House, many things have happened in history, many things can be done, but let me personally not take this seriously, not even because - at least I hope - I remember what is happening to me. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Congresswoman Herring was exemplary with Harry Potter. I think we all have our jobs and our responsibilities. From a political point of view - as I have repeatedly said, of course, I will not interfere with this, because I cannot say anything about it - the Member of Parliament will formulate an opinion that he wants, he will say what he wants, his limitations are quite different from mine. I, on the other hand, have a line leader with which the Member's identity is linked, and this is not Harry Potter's magic wand, Congresswoman, I would like to tell you this, but the law. You're sitting in these benches, if you think you need to change something, then you have this magic wand in your hand, use it. Dear House, Thank you so much for listening. Thank you very much for dealing with the report, and you may have read about it. Thank you very much for giving the prosecution the benefit of the doubt. This in itself is a very positive thing, because I also believe that the prosecution plays an extremely important role in the system of power-sharing as a judicial body, as a contributor to the judiciary. [[14.00]] I do not necessarily agree with the comments that have been made here, especially those I do not agree with at all, but I think it is right to talk about the prosecution within these walls. I also find it instructive to hear what is said here, sometimes, I dare hope, what I say is also instructive. In any case, I am quite certain that in 2015, similarly to previous years, the prosecutor's office, if not working correctly, but legally, and according to documentable data, was effective. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-12-07-54	Thank you. I will now ask György Rubovszky, President of the Justice Committee, if he wishes to respond to what has been said. [[For signal:]] I can see that you can. You have the floor.
u2016-12-07-55	Dear House, I am in a very easy position, all the more so, because Mr Attorney General has eliminated all open questions and answered all open questions. He answered the criticism to stick to the account, and he told us what he could. I would also like to refer to the fact that the same has happened in the Committee on Justice, and we have received an exhaustive reply to everything there, so that I can practically maintain the votes of the fellow members of the Government, and I ask this House to accept the report. I must answer the criticism of Congressman Csaba Gyure. I'd be happy to give you the report. [[He's showing it to me.]] This is the minutes of the committee meeting. It doesn't correspond to the reality that I've withdrawn the word from István Apáti, it's an unreal lie, it's not unusual for Jobbik recently. Here the congressman said that István Apáti couldn't ask his questions either. Here is the record, according to which Gábor Staudt received three words in the series of questions, István Apáti did not ask once, and at the end, when the opinions had to be expressed, they agreed in the exchange of roles that this time was not Gábor Staudt, but István Apáti speaking, and István Apáti began to ask questions. I didn't take the floor, I noted that the time of the questions was long over, and he had finished what he had to say. I would ask you very nicely to say this in great enthusiasm about a committee's leadership only if they are convinced that it is true or not. I'd be happy to give you the June 16th. Minutes. Furthermore, with respect, I continue to ask that the resolution be adopted. Thank you. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] [[Dr. István Hiller, vice-president of the Parliament, takes the chair.]]
u2016-12-07-56	Welcome. Good afternoon. I would like to inform you that the proposal for a decision can be submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the discussion of our agendas today. The speeches following the agenda will now be followed; first, Mr Csaba Gyüre, representative of Jobbik, with the title "The Beneš Decrees." Congressman, please.
u2016-12-07-57	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Fellow Members! I would like to draw your attention to an everyday topic of highland society. Whether at a family reunion or at a friendly meeting, a conversation between colleagues always comes up in Felvidék with something, a subject that is the Beneš Decree. Unfortunately, whether it's a birthday, Christmas, Easter, commemoration, any celebration, the Beneš Decree is always mentioned everywhere, which is the 21st. It's not a normal thing anymore. Everyone knows that about two thirds of the territories, more than half of the population, have been disconnected from the mother country by means of the Trianon peace dictate of 4 June 1920, and that this has hit everyone seriously. Unfortunately, the Hungarians of the disconnected territories have to endure a series of discriminations to this day. Take Felvidék, for example, where there was not enough separation from the mother nation, but they had to endure many trials, such as reslovakisation, deportations, language law, Beneš decrees. Beneš Decrees were incompatible with human rights in both the German and Hungarian minorities, contrary to the general principles of international law, the prohibition of discrimination and forced labour, and the principle of the inviolability of property. Despite this, the Czech Republic and Slovakia still regard these decrees as part of their legal order. Hungarians were deprived of their citizenship, which also involved the withdrawal of pensions and other public benefits and dismissals from state employment. They banned the use of Hungarian in public life, excluded Hungarian students from universities, dissolved Hungarian cultural associations, frozen Hungarian bank deposits, allowed and regulated the confiscation of German and Hungarian lands on which Czechs and Slovaks were installed. Of the mass cases, the Košice Hungarian lawsuit was the largest, in which nearly 600 Hungarians were declared war criminals. During this period, about 44,000 people, including men, women, children, and old people, were transported to the Czech Republic in unheated cattle wagons. In forced labour camps, the idea of Beneš served as the basis for ethnic mass murder. Although the Treaty on good neighbourly relations and friendly cooperation between the Republic of Hungary and the Slovak Republic already included in 1995 those parts of the ETS Framework Convention on the Protection of National Minorities, No 157, which prohibit measures aimed at assimilation of persons belonging to the national community against their will, changes in the proportion of the linguistic, ethnic and religious composition of the local Aboriginality, yet, on the part of Hungary, diplomatic silence and, at the same time, a great silence of the European Union still prevail on the subject. On 20 September 2007, at the initiative of the extremely nationalist Slovak National Party, all parties of the Slovak Parliament, with the exception of the Hungarian Coalition Party, voted in favour of the 1487/2007 on the integrity of Beneš Decrees. Decision No. The decrees are incompatible with the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union, but Slovakia's leading politicians confirmed in 2007 the unquestionable, untouchable and unchangeable legal and financial relations established by the Beneš Decrees. As a result, Hungarians in Slovakia remained legally guilty of war, so at any time only one government decree is sufficient to make them deprived of their wealth and citizenship again. The same legislation gives us the possibility that the land acquired from Hungarians cannot even form a legal claim by legitimate descendants. After 2007, Hungarian anti-Hungarianism received a new impetus. In the media, it became common, and the sign is widespread, which is used as the synonym of the idiot, so to speak. Conscious history counterfeiting is also ongoing in Slovakia. Slovak politicians do not adapt to the language of the Hungarian population in Hungarian territories, nor to their culture, but on the contrary, they are humiliated, insulted, verbally abused and intimidated. To illustrate what a serious legal basis it is, imagine it as if the anti-Jewish laws of World War II still exist. As long as the people involved obey, remain silent, accept their inferiority, shame or forget their origins, and do not want to live a life of faith, they do not confiscate their wealth, they do not deport them, nor do they have to wear the star, but they are constantly made to feel that a government decree is enough, and can be changed at any time. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, It is the duty of the current Hungarian government to provide all the assistance to Hungarians across the border. The language and culture of the Hungarians in the Highlands must be protected, and everything must be done. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] to have the broadest possible autonomy and self-determination. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]] [[14.10]]
u2016-12-07-58	Thank you very much. Dániel Z. Kárpát, representative of Jobbik, applied for a post-meeting speech:. How long? It's an address. Here you go.
u2016-12-07-59	Mr President, Dear House, Winter is coming, and indeed, Christmas will not be as happy as it might have been if this government had been on top of the situation and had taken meaningful steps for them. Recently, a decision was made in the country called Romania, where, in fact, the so-called loans, which were baptized as foreign exchange loans in Hungary, were converted at the rate of admission. The Hungarian spirit courage was far from that in the representatives of the governing parties, since the person who took credit at 160 HUF, you also HUF 256, almost at the market rate. The difference, the huge amount of money stolen, was credited to your banker friends. At the same time, we can say that the situation could still be saved, but we have just seen from the arrogant, instructive response of the Attorney General, why it is impossible in Hungary to expect a meaningful solution from this government. Moreover, they have committed the amazing betrayal that is very, very rare on the European market. A pact has been concluded with the Banking Association that they do not want to put additional burdens on the banks concerned and do not want to settle the situation of people, at least those who have actually been stripped of them within the framework of an organised looting mechanism, many have lost their homes. When I asked the question this week in the form of an immediate question and several times before, what is the government's purpose, after all, of the masses of foreign exchange credit-damaged people, by settling and managing their situation, we received State Secretary's replies that this problem was considered to be resolved, the size of the retail credit stock measured in foreign currency was greatly reduced. Yes, that's when we say that lies are no longer recorded in foreign currency, but in forints, but that still leaves the lie lying. Let me give you an example. Jobbik MEPs are always in their host hours, it's very easy to find them even without checking in. That's what happened in Obuda last week when a gentleman with a loan-damaged businessman came to our house. He took 24 million forints back in the day. After that, 17 had already been repaid, and when they failed to repay the instalments, they now show a debt of HUF 86 million by means of a mechanism that does not understand us, as it is quite clear that both the bank and the executioner have charged them unjustified amounts and unjustified items. They must have been decapitated with a penalty rate, and the person concerned was put into the spiral that he could no longer pay the other because of one debt. Meanwhile, if this government stands at the expectation and intervenes in a fair manner, it can prevent the problem and prevent tens of thousands of families from being in a similar situation. After all, do not think that after your governance, when Fidesz-KDNP is no longer at the head of Hungary, this problem will not be acute and existing. These people must still be kept alive and kept alive with social transfers, others, and should not be deprived of help, but would also be better for them, and they would also like to be able to become productive, productive, tax-paying members of society, while at the same time providing them with a chance of life. To this end, I suggested that we create a compensation fund at the expense of the surplus of around 260 billion from the foreign exchange credit transfer at the Hungarian National Bank, where we can transfer the funds concerned and try to restore the original life situation of as many citizens as possible. I'm not gonna tell you a secret, and I'm not gonna surprise you that this idea of ours couldn't even get into a negotiation phase, thanks to Fidesz-KDNP - in a quote. However, it must be said that although fine-tunings and gestures have been taken in the context of the auction and implementation system, abuses remain serial, they cannot be pretended to not exist. We must say that 140,000 people continue to have a short-term or medium-term deficit that threatens to lose their place of residence, tens of thousands of auctions have taken place that in many cases have not ended with the evacuation of the apartment because it was simply not a buyer. And we also have to say that the National Asset Manager, which cannot be considered as aid for the taking of people's property, can at least breathe some of the victims, can already sign a few hundred real estate contracts, the quota will be fulfilled. We do not see that the government has allocated a budget resource for this purpose, and we therefore need to take immediate action to ensure that the Christmas of foreign exchange credit victims, if not nice, but at least bearable, can finally be believed again in a better future. Thank you for the opportunity. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2016-12-07-60	Thank you very much, Congressman. I would be happy to inform the Member that the official name of Romania is Romania, so that in subsequent speeches he has no doubt about it. [[Deterioration in the benches of Jobbik.]] Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speeches after the agenda. I thank you for your work, the Parliament will resume its session at 9 a.m. Meeting day's closed. Good afternoon, everyone. [[Meeting ended at 2:16 p.m.]]
