u2016-05-23-0	[[The people in this room stand up and greet the voters' community. When the chairman of the meeting takes his seat, the people in the room will sit down.]] Dear Parliament, The 29th day of the Spring Session of the Parliament is hereby opened. I would like to inform you that, in the chair of this meeting, Lajos Szűcs and Dezső Reliable notary will be of assistance to me. Welcome to our dear guests and everyone who's watching our work. Dear Parliament, Tobias József Group leader, from the MSZP Group, applied for a pre-meeting address on current affairs. You have the floor, Mr. Group Leader.
u2016-05-23-1	Mr. President. Dear House, Dear fellow Members present, György Matolcsy mentions a bluff in vain, because on March 1, 2016, the President of the Economic Commission presented a bill that you have accepted, allowing the spending of a billion dollars, so to speak, to be removed from the public. This 260 billion - although I do not know exactly how the dollar stands today, it has already cost HUF 282 billion this weekend - this money has been tried to be distributed to Matolcsy's friends, relatives and acquaintances, not least since we knew from the board member that they wanted to contribute to Fidesz's 2018 election victory from this source. They're wrong to think people don't understand what's happening in this country. You're wrong if you don't believe that people are sick of the factory theft you're doing, and there's no consequence. As opposed to the person of the central bank, public confidence has ceased, and it has become clear and clear that he is now a party minister. It is not a bluff that Matolcsy distributed 260 billion forints to his family members, acquaintances and acquaintances' businesses at the expense of the Hungarians, because as a result, the Matolcsy case today weakens Hungary's international judgment and the stability of our financial system. According to a recent survey, my fellow Members, the vast majority of our society would immediately dismiss György Matolcsy; your voters are also involved in this. People think that abuses at foundations are not fair and that they also clearly see that this is not magnified by the opposition; this is the reality today. Because it is a reality that you buy pianos for four million forints, millions of carpets, financing of the secretary's book, which you feel exactly on your own skin, that you should spend every single forint of it on education, health care rather than private pockets. On such matters, a simple voter can say on a Saturday or Sunday purchase that what you're doing opens up in your pockets. This crisis is deep, because 60 percent of society says that you've done enough around the central bank. But neither the Fidesz fraction, nor the Prime Minister, nor the Government, nor the Supreme Prosecutor's Office, but - I will go on - neither György Matolcsy has been separated from any of his actions in recent months. They act as if nothing had happened, everything would be all right, here the opposition tells us in Parliament, he organized the Financial Times, the New York Times, the Bloomberg, he organized everything, but what I would like to say is that you should be ashamed of yourselves, that you voted in favour of a law on how inexplicable public money will not be public money, you have tried to make yourself believe, fellow Members. So don't explain to the government for a minute that you wanted transparency from the beginning. No, you wanted to make 260 billion disappear. They also filed a law on it, and they voted for it, and then they had to send it to the President of the Republic to the Constitutional Court, where they said that all the money in the foundation was public money. In fact, with this decision, you have only confirmed what you have already known in this country: you, together with the High Prosecutor, are on the same team, blowing a stone. But not the Matolcsy case, but now we have to call the Matolcsy and Polt case all that's going on, because how can we expect the Attorney General's wife to be responsible for these funds as a staff member and foundation curator, and the Attorney General should interrogate his own wife? Can't you feel nonsense? Don't you feel that there's more than a merger in everything that's going on? It's collusion, but the people can see right through you. You see, they want to save the unsaveable. There's one thing you can do: George Matolcsy resigns. Thank you very much.
u2016-05-23-2	Thank you, Mr. Group Leader. Dear Parliament, On behalf of the Government, Mr Csaba Dömötör wishes to respond. Secretary of State, you have the floor.
u2016-05-23-3	Dear Chief of Staff, This question has already come before Parliament for more than one time, on the agenda of the Parliament, so I would like to repeat a few things. The assets of the Hungarian National Bank have increased and have not decreased in recent years [[Dr. István Józsa: The Matolcsys also grew!]] while under socialist governments he was losing money [[Dr. Wind Bernadett: How many years has it been?]] And now the opposite is true, and the activities of the central bank have contributed to the fact that the Hungarian economy is now stable, there are more jobs, low inflation, the economy is growing, compared with the fact that it has decreased by 7 percent in your time. The fact that the economy is stable is proof of this weekend's upgrading. As far as public money is concerned, it is difficult to accept a lecture from the party where it is difficult to decide what was most important about its governance: the nocical box, the valley bridge built on the plain, the hundreds of millions of Gábor Simon, the associations of János Zuschlag - difficult to decide. And I would also like to remind you that, in recent weeks, a judgment has been handed down in a case involving a former Socialist Minister for Defence and his State Secretary. And then we didn't talk about, for example, Chillebérc, which was also said by the court that the state's wealth had been unlawfully squandered. But there's also a more up-to-date case: this is the Alstom case. According to the British authorities, during the socialist government, HUF 600 million was moved in connection with the subway investment, HUF 180 million landed at Péter Medgyessy, supposedly for counseling, of which HUF 60 million was awarded to his wife for her birthday gift. 60 million forints! You're silent, and you don't know where the rest of the 600 million forints went, so we need to look at who made the decisions. [[Dr. András Schiffer: Why was there no accountability?]] the decision-making in the capital, decision-makers responsible for EU funds and government actors should also be examined; it would be good to know your position at last. [[Dr. István Józsa: We still need an answer to Matolcsy!]] You have also made a number of proposals in this speech and in the previous ones, but the fact is that when you make a proposal, the initiative usually involves chaos within the MSZP - obviously the reason for this renewal. Take, for example, the reduction of VAT on the most important food: earlier, they said that they supported it, and now they are hard on it. Or let us look at the referendum against forced resettlement: you said earlier that you agreed not to make decisions over the heads of people, and now you have decided to boycott the referendum. [[István Tukacs: A few words about the MNB!]] But what they do about opening hours on Sunday is beyond imagination. For example, the story begins when you initiated a referendum, which has become obsolete, because Parliament has withdrawn the law on Sunday's closed hours. [[József Tobias: No. You're holding me back!]] However, the MSZP continues to collect signatures. [[13.10]] He did so by stating that this was unethical. [[Dr. Wind Bernadett: Let's get back to Matolcsy and the central bank. The president's ringing the bell.]] Then, on a quiet day, Zoltán Gőgös told me that on Sunday's shop shutdown [[Moraj in the ranks of opposition parties. The president's ringing the bell.]] The MSZP has stopped collecting signatures for two or three weeks. A few days later, Sándor Burány learned on a TV show that they had finished collecting signatures. [[Gábor István Bellozó: Do you really think everyone is that stupid? Sit down. István Tukacs: At Gábor a string snapped. The president's ringing the bell.]] He said he didn't know about this, but one thing's for sure, the other day, the activists were working on the signature collection. And then a few days later, you said they were collecting signatures after all. He added so much that it is worth paying attention here: sometimes we can't say two sentences in the same show when it comes to two characters. I usually listen to that criticism, you said, it's perfectly fair. The fact is, however many of you are, they give so many answers to the simple question of whether or not to collect signatures on a question [[Defiance.]] which, by the way, was initiated by you. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] The thing is, you don't seem to be talking to each other, not just your own voters. [[Gábor István Bellozó: This is Parliament, you should answer on behalf of the government!]] [[The president's ringing the bell.]] The thing is, you don't seem to be talking to each other, not just your own voters. (Gábor István Bellozó: This is Parliament, you should answer on behalf of the government!) Under these circumstances (the president bell rings. ), under these circumstances, then whatever the MSZP suggests [[Interview from the ranks of the MSZP: Get out!]] I can't take it seriously. Maybe it's better this way, because if they have the opportunity to act, [[Dr. István Józsa: I see you're ashamed of Matolcsy.]] , then there will be only disasters: debt, a 2 percent decline in economy, paying health care, doubling unemployment, taking a month's wages and pensions, abolished housing support system and otherwise loss-making Hungarian National Bank. Thank you, we don't want any of this, and I don't think the voters do either. Thank you for your attention. [[József Tobias: Give it up! That was very nice. Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-05-23-4	I thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Erzsébet Schmuck, Member of the LMP Group, also spoke before the agenda, with a disappointing GDP figure in a dead end with the title of the Hungarian economy. I give you the floor, Congresswoman.
u2016-05-23-5	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Hungary has become a driving force within the European Union in terms of economic growth. [[Dr. Wind Bernadett: That's right!]] In the first three months of this year, GDP decreased by 0.8 per cent compared to the last quarter of 2015 and only increased by 0.9 per cent compared to a year earlier, with 2.5 per cent expected. [[Lajos Kósa: Of course, for the whole year, not for a quarter.]] In this quarter, virtually all economies at EU level grew faster than Hungarians. This is not surprising to the LMP, because we have been saying for years that the government's economic policy is a dead end. Ladies and gentlemen, The government's unorthodox economic policy is not much different from that of previous governments. We have already said many times that the Fidesz government is making Hungary only a assembly plant for foreign multinational companies, and it bases the competitiveness of our country on cheap labour, compared to its quality, and on a business environment that is attractive to foreign multinational companies. If that were not the case, workers' rights would not have been shattered, wages would not be consciously kept low. [[Lajos Kósa intervenes.]] and they would not conclude strategic agreements with multinational companies, and they would not give them five or ten times as much money as small and medium-sized enterprises. [[Lajos Kósa: But it's not like that! 39 high-added service centres have come to Hungary. Don't read the data.]] In addition, foreign multi-company companies take 80 percent of their profits out of the country. [[Dr. Wind Bernadett: That's right!]] So there is no growth if the Hungarian population does not feel anything about it. Moreover, due to low wages, there is no increase in domestic demand. [[Lajos Kósa: Retail sales increased above 5 percent.]] Hungary cannot stand on its own feet and is therefore becoming even more vulnerable to international economic processes. [[Lajos Kósa: Oh, my God! What country are you in?]] In addition, the government is particularly supportive of the automotive industry and vehicle manufacturing, and we are most dependent on this international market. This is particularly worrying because global economic forecasts are negative. On the one hand, since the financial crisis in September 2008, the debt of developed countries increased by on average 40% [[Lajos Kósa: Ours has fallen, so good.]] On the other hand, the BRICS countries, which have provided 80% of global growth over the last eight years, are already in recession. Another wave of crisis, honourable Members, can have serious consequences in our country, and Fidesz, while talking about independent Hungary, has made the country's economy completely dependent. GDP growth depends on three factors: the performance of Hungarian multinationals, including the automotive industry, depends on EU subsidies and surprisingly on the savings of those working abroad. Ladies and gentlemen, It's like a three-legged chair: when one of them breaks out, the whole thing falls apart, and each leg is fragile. [[Lajos Kósa: Elizabeth, sit down. Number one. That's very weak.]] GDP figures in the first quarter prove that if there are no EU funds, GDP may decrease by several percent from one moment to the next [[Dr. Wind Bernadett: That's right!]] But there is no need to prove that dependence on the automotive industry is also a big risk. In times of economic crisis, people do not give up on their everyday needs, but on buying cars. We see that if the government does not change its economic policy, it is very easy to push the country into a cliff, and so it is, even if Fitch's credit rating agency just last week classified the country's debt rating. [[Charles Kontra applauds.]] That doesn't change the government's economic policy. [[Lajos Kósa and János Halász intervene.]] There's no reason for too much joy. Of course, it is good to improve our credit ratings, but credit rating agencies do not care about the country's fate. [[Dr. Wind Bernadett: That's it!]] It's just that the creditors get their loan money back. They don't care about the fate of teachers, nurses, our health, well-being, the disintegration of society, the weakness of the domestic economy, they're interested in getting their money and interest. [[Lajos Kósa intervenes. John the Fisherman: Oh, my God! Dr. Wind Bernadett: Now we're on the same level as Namibia.]] [[Dr. Wind Bernadett: That's right!]] But there is no need to prove that dependence on the automotive industry is also a big risk. In times of economic crisis, people do not give up on their everyday needs, but on buying cars. We see that if the government does not change its economic policy, it is very easy to push the country into a cliff, and so it is, even if Fitch's credit rating agency just last week classified the country's debt rating. (Károly Kontra applauds.) That doesn't change the government's economic policy. (Lajos Kósa and János Halász intervene.) There's no reason for too much joy. Of course, it is good that our credit rating improves, but credit rating agencies do not care about the country's fate (Dr. Bernadett Wind: That's it!) It's just that the creditors get their loaned money back. They don't care about the fate of teachers, nurses, our health, well-being, the disintegration of society, the weakness of the domestic economy, they're interested in getting their money and interest. (Lajos Kósa intervenes. - János Halász: Oh, my God! Dr. Wind Bernadett, we're on the same level as Namibia. ) and the Orbán government is doing one thing very consistently: serving international creditors across all borders (Dr. Bernadett Wind: That's right!) If necessary, at the expense of brutal restrictions. According to the LMP, everything needs to be done to reduce dependence on multinational companies, including the automotive industry and vehicle manufacturing, and to break up economic policy building on cheap labour compared to its quality, and to increase wages as soon as possible. Thank you for your attention. [[Dr. András Schiffer and Dr. Bernadett Wind applaud.]]
u2016-05-23-6	Thank you, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, On behalf of the Government, Mr András Tállai wishes to respond. Secretary of State, you have the floor.
u2016-05-23-7	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Allow me, in my first sentence, to say that the Hungarian economy is not at a dead end, but that opposition, the LMP, is in a dead end, I think, who is not based on real facts, facts, not on real economic data, but on some kind of political motivation. [[Dr. Wind Bernadett: Teach us, teach us!]] More than that, out of political spirit, the government's criticism of facts and untruths and draws conclusions that are simply unpredictable. I think that the role of the opposition is obviously criticism, the drafting of critical opinions, but even the LMP must do so only on the basis of real facts. LMP does this when Hungary, the Hungarian economy, the Hungarian government, has achieved one of its greatest economic success [[Dr. Wind Bernadett, Namibia and I are on the same level. Congratulations to Fidesz.]] since after the 2010 change of government, the performance of the then-day economy led to downgrading, and the government's economic policy has achieved that Fitch Ratings is a credit rating agency for the rating category on Friday. He raised Hungary. I have bad news for the Congresswoman, because the other credit rating agencies will probably do the same, as the other credit rating agencies have already put Hungary in a positive position, which is the hallway to the category recommended for investment. [[Dr. Szél Bernadett: We are in Hungary, congratulations!]] We believe that the Hungarian economic policy has achieved its results, the restructuring has brought real and real results, which have allowed the country to expect economic growth above the European Union's average. [[Depletion in the lines of the LMP.]] In 2016, the Hungarian government and the Hungarian Parliament planned a 2.5 percent economic growth, and I think that this is in no way in danger. It was clear that, after the closure of the European Union cycle, the cyclicality of EU funds will lead to a temporary decline in the performance of the Hungarian economy in the construction sector, and the results of this are now reflected in the 0.9 percent increase in GDP. [[13.20]] But I also have bad news for the LMP and the Congresswoman, because this is a temporary situation. Indeed, European Union funds help the Hungarian economy to develop, but not only European Union funds. Think of how a country's economy can go badly, while incomes are increasing with such GDP figures, real wages are increasing significantly, employment is increasing, as 150,000 more people work in Hungary than in the first quarter of last year, retail sales have been increasing for more than two years, people consume more, so domestic consumption is also increasing, and the country's external trade balance has been outstandingly good for years. Hungary's exposure also decreased, as foreign currency loans were primarily replaced with Hungarian government bonds, and essentially Hungarian people finance the lack of budget. I think that in a country with such macroeconomic data, a quarterly temporary economic growth data cannot be drawn to a long-term conclusion. Of course, the Hungarian economy needs to improve further, so the government has developed a forward-looking and industrial strategy. The structure of industry needs to be further improved. The Hungarian government has decided that it would like the Hungarian bus production to be at the forefront of Europe again, and we could produce results at international level, primarily by meeting the Hungarian market needs, and then by the rise of production we could produce results at international level as well. Hungary's economic performance is recognised by the whole world, even by the European Union and the European Commission, which is known to be not a great supporter of Hungary in recognition of its results. But even the European Union, the European Commission, is in essence receiving recognition. I think that the Hungarian economy is on the right track, and, contrary to your claim, Hungary's economy will continue to grow. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-05-23-8	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, István Hollik, Member of the KDNP Group, also applied for a speech before the agenda:. The new Left's plan for forced resettlement. I give you the floor, Congressman.
u2016-05-23-9	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, I asked for the floor because the pro-immigration left is going to have another plan to bypass people's forced resettlement. What we can see is that the ink on the European Commission's latest proposal to force migrants into the EU's Member States is almost not even dried up, and now left-wing politicians have come up with a new plan. The root cause of this may well be that, after the Commission has made its plan public, several countries have expressed their strong indignation. The extent of this is so great that this plan can be swept away. In addition to the Visegrad 4 countries, Denmark, among other things, has stated that the Commission's proposal is unacceptable to it. The protest is not a coincidence, as the penalty is unrealisticly high, in the case of a thousand migrants Hungary would have to pay nearly HUF 80 billion; for example, this is how much money the government spends on children's meals in one year. Thus, this proposal cannot be interpreted differently than blackmail. This is how the EU intends to force the resettlement of migrants into countries which do not agree on this principle. This procedure, on the other hand, is deeply in violation of European democratic traditions, against the EU's basic treaty, and is also unfulfilled. We civil, right-wing Christian democrats do not believe in this kind of Europe, which is why we believe it is important for the Hungarian people to make it clear to Brussels in the referendum: we Hungarians want to decide for ourselves who we want to live with and who we do not. Since we are not alone in this opinion in Europe, it is true that the Commission proposal does not survive this wave of protest. Therefore, as I said, a German and Portuguese left-wing politician came up with another plan. Last week, the newspaper Die Zeit first reported that Sigmar Gabriel, not just anyone, but the German Deputy Socialist Chancellor and a Portuguese left-wing MEP, suggested that the European Commission, bypassing governments that might protest against resettlement, agree directly with local governments open to the resettlement of immigrants. It is quite obvious that this idea was specifically invented to bypass governments and install migrants in Member States where the government does not want it, but there are pro-immigration mayors. Left-wing politicians also suggested that Brussels offer money to such municipalities, and even the proposal suggests that migrants should have an opportunity to influence exactly where, where, within the EU, they should be placed. This new plan is a typical left-wing plan, as if it were inspired by Ferenc Gyurcsány himself, as Gyurcsány talked about hundreds of tricks in his autumn speech, and this left-wing proposal is also based on political tricks, as he wants to avoid the resistance governments in a devious way. Like Gyurcsány's policy, this proposal does not take people's opinions into account, and even wants to force them to do something they do not want. You will remember when Martin Schulz, the Socialist President of the European Parliament, recently said about László Botka and the city of Szeged that it is a committed left-wing city, where any refugee can be sent. Since then, Fidesz and KDNP have tried to find out László Botka's position on this issue several times, but he is still indebted to the answer, since so far we have received only minor and ironic half-phrases. László Botka once tried to avoid the answer by saying that no one can seriously believe that the EU is going to negotiate with the city of Szeged or any other city. Well, now it seems that powerful German and Portuguese left-wing politicians are suggesting just that, that's what they want. In light of this, however, it is not enough to have half-assed sentences, so we ask László Botka and the Hungarian Socialist Party again to make it clear whether they want to participate in such political tricks and whether they want to install migrants in left-wing cities from Szeged to Zugló. Our position on this plan, as it is clear on the Commission's proposal, is to reject it in the strongest possible terms. No one has authorized Brussels or the left-wing politicians or the mayors to make such a decision. We would therefore like to ask the Government to do everything in its power to ensure that this plan does not become anything, to prevent this plan from being implemented after a possible failure of the Commission's current proposal. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-05-23-10	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, On behalf of the Government, Mr Csaba Dömötör wishes to respond. Secretary of State, you have the floor.
u2016-05-23-11	Thank you, Mr. President. Indeed, Brussels' immigration plan, which applies both to forced resettlement and, on the other hand, to punish those Member States that do not accept it by more than HUF 70 million each, would not accept forced resettlement. Several European governments have expressed harsh criticism, which is why the European left is now trying to reach the local authorities. It is no coincidence that he is trying to reach the local authorities, in particular the left-wing municipalities, because the Hungarian left continues to take a pro-immigration position. Take Szeged, for example, and take László Botka, who said earlier that the population of Szeged is not disturbed by migrants at all, and elsewhere he said that Hungary has no problem with immigration, and otherwise the whole of Europe is laughing at the fact that the Fidesz government is the leader in the fight against immigration with a completely useless fence. So everyone is laughing about the Hungarian government building a fence, said László Botka. European politicians who think immigration is a good opportunity also knock on open doors in Zuglo. Gergely Christmas said earlier that it is in the interest of Hungarian citizens to have immigrants present in an organised form. It is no coincidence that the city leadership in Zugló would now make it easier for immigrants to get housing, and all of this, with access to housing being a major problem for citizens born here. It is also good to know that the otherwise beautiful Csaba Horváth, who would also like to lead the capital, said earlier with sufficient self-confidence: I say to the immigrants living here, you do not have to be afraid, Budapest will take you in. This attitude is not a coincidence, since two left-wing parties in Parliament have also collected signatures in addition to the compulsory resettlement quota. I wonder how many signatures have been collected, but I suspect not much. [[13.30]] As far as the municipalities themselves are concerned, it is a talkative fact that, according to the reports, more than a thousand municipalities have already decided to reject compulsory resettlement and compulsory quota. Therefore, the municipalities do not ask for the pro-immigration left-wing policy. Thank you to the local governments for your stand. These decisions are necessary but insufficient conditions for Brussels to withdraw its proposal for forced resettlement. Hungarian citizens must act together, that is what the forthcoming referendum is about. Dear House, Luxembourg's Foreign Minister recently made a very, very strange statement. He said that the European Union would die if EU issues were decided by referendum. We say the opposite, that Europe only has a future, that European values only have a future if we all have a say in decisions that determine our lives in the long term. This is also what the forthcoming referendum is about. Thank you for your attention. [[It's a rare round of applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-05-23-12	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Mr Lajos Kósa, Head of the Group, Fidesz Group, also spoke before the agenda. Mr. Team Leader, you have the floor.
u2016-05-23-13	Mr. President. Dear House, At a time when there is a presidential campaign in the most powerful country in the world, the United States, there are often statements that trigger surprise or preposterousness in many parts of the world. But perhaps it is right to interpret these statements in their place and take them into account, with the greatest courtesy and respect, to draw the attention of our American friends to the fact that there is no need to insult allies and friends, even if, if appropriate, they offer political benefits. The statements of the former President of the United States regarding Hungary are among these. Of course, they are not an independent phenomenon, and they do not appear unexpectedly as the iceberg from the sea, but in the framework in which, we know very well, within the framework of the Democratic Party, the Democratic Party's campaign staff and the democratic funding framework, a number of forces are represented with a large number of millions of dollars, the concept of which in Europe is that European countries should accept a large number of illegal migrants, because they think it is good for Europe. While they know that this is a significant burden on the European countries' budgets, they organise desirable loans to finance this. The six points published by George Soros in relation to the migrant crisis reflect this. And we also know that George Soros is one of the biggest supporters and funders of the Democratic Party. Therefore, it is not a coincidence that, in order to gain the political concept of the supporter, politicians' mouths are also, of course, not in the mainstream, but rather a little offside leaving behind surprising statements, but, of course, it is our job to draw the world's attention to the few facts that might put these statements in a better light. Hungarian freedom is not the fruit of the Cold War policy of the United States. The Hungarian freedom fighters fought for Hungarian freedom in 48, which would also be known in the United States by the fact that not one or two, but thousands of Hungarian freedom fighters fought in the American Civil War, just as a soldier of the North Alliance. In fact, he earned himself such respect that Hungarian soldiers do not have a memorial place in one or two places, a statue of Kossuth in the United States. Because there was no Cold War at the time, but there was a struggle for human rights, for the abolition of slavery, for the freedom that Hungarian warriors took part in. The Hungarian freedom is rooted in 56 where people went out into the street. Not because the United States has succeeded or failed in its Cuba policy or its Cold War policy, but because their desire for freedom was strong. And we also know that the United States also had a political situation where the solution to the Suez crisis seemed far more important than the issue of Hungarian freedom. Therefore, in vain those radio broadcasts were transmitted to us, Hungarian freedom fighters, because the progressive, free world is with you, the progressive, free world was with us, of course, with the oil, so the Americans did not undertake to cover the status quo at that time, but left the Soviet realities, the Hungarian freedom, the whole of Hungarian freedom alone. Under such political circumstances, it is important to draw attention to the fact that Hungarian freedom comes from the blood, struggle and sacrifice of Hungarian freedom fighters. Of course, the US Cold War policy has played a decisive role in the collapse of the communist world system, but in countless cases the United States has followed a policy based on its own great power logic that, let's say, is more difficult to reconcile with the ideal of freedom. Let's just look at the facts. When politicians in the United States talk about how the Hungarian fence, the compliance with the Hungarian Schengen rules, is at the southern borders, and how outrageous that is, they forget that we did not have armed atrocities to protect the border. At the Mexican border of the United States, however, not one or two victims are buried in desert sand unmarked; for otherwise there is a fence and gun use. In this connection, we pay great respect to all of us that Hungarian freedom has been and has grown from the centuries-old struggle of Hungarian freedom fighters. If the United States has helped, thank you. Unfortunately, he didn't always help. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-05-23-14	Thank you, Mr. Group Leader. Dear Parliament, On behalf of the Government, Mr Csaba Dömötör wishes to respond. Secretary of State, you have the floor.
u2016-05-23-15	Dear Chief of Staff, We have partly mentioned the issue of the referendum and the subject on which there will be a referendum. The government insists that national parliaments and citizens' opinions cannot be bypassed when deciding who we live with. That is why he decided to vote in favour of the referendum against forced resettlement. This is the only way to reject illegal and dangerous plans in Brussels, which are otherwise similar to those which the businessman you mentioned has put on paper. Although the Hungarian left has made several attempts to torpedo the referendum initiative, hopefully the head of state will issue the referendum as soon as possible. This is also very necessary because the issue of forced resettlement is expected to be on the agenda at the next EU summit. It is not an incidental fact that the Hungarians have already decided in a referendum on matters of similar importance; it is enough to think only of the NATO referendum and the EU referendum. In the meantime, the government has launched an information campaign on the referendum, because we want all Hungarian citizens to know about the referendum. We want you to know that the referendum can send a strong message that we want us to continue to decide our own future. Dear House, As opposed to Brussels, we do not think that compulsory quotas and forced introductions will solve any problems. On the contrary, it creates more problems while not solving one - one more reason to say no. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-05-23-16	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Mr Mirkóczki, Member of the Jobbik Group, also spoke before the agenda, with the title Fidesz internal power struggle instead of the fight against terrorism. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2016-05-23-17	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, I have said so many times and in so many ways that there is not only terrorism in the classic sense of the word, but we can see, especially here, Hungary and Hungary, that there is also political terrorism, to which you provide evidence every day. For six months, all government propaganda has been about is pressioning the Hungarian population, pressioning the Hungarian political opposition that anyone who does not agree with your immigration policy or, in particular, with the action against immigration, or with the legislative formulas created in the spirit of combating terrorism, is all terrorist-friendly or even pro-immigration. [[13.40]] Well, in the last six months, after many, many discussions, many political debates and many, many political struggles, we can almost say that in an unprecedented manner over the past six years, with the effective professional help and criticism of all opposition parties with groups, I believe we can say that an unprecedented consensus and support has been made, which almost everyone, regardless of party standing, considered important, necessary and forward-looking in terms of whether, if God does not give it, it would also happen in Hungary, or if they tried to try to commit a terrorist act or something like that, we can prevent or effectively manage it by taking a meaningful step. Compared to this, we saw last week that the Legislative Committee led by Gergely Gulyás suddenly removed this anti-terrorist package created by the Ministry of Interior without any particular reason, and then various press reports came about what might be behind it, and not least one of the main reasons why a kind of power struggle started in the spirit of arrogance, I presume, within the government, ministers are competing with each other to oversee this new institution, this new authority. I would add that with this step, whether the press news is true or not, you have once again exposed yourself. You have once again demonstrated and once again shown your true background and your thinking that the safety of Hungary is not important to you; it is not the fight against terrorism that is important to you; it is the steps of your own power arrogance that are once again important to you, and this will now be affected by an otherwise unparalleled professional proposal, which would indeed serve the safety of Hungary. I think that, by the way, if we focus on the specificity of the word or leaked opinions and examine whether the Tibetans are in a better place than the Ministry of Interior or the Chancellorial Minister, then it can be said that this proposal itself is unprofessional and would create an excessive concentration of power, that if all the authorities under the Ministry of Interior, secret services database, were transferred to the Prime Minister's Office, which otherwise oversees intelligence, the power base and power concentration, which, in the previous cycle, was torpedoed by László Kövér himself in connection with the famous Nibek, would be precisely created. That's a step that you've been playing away from trust. They have betrayed the trust that is expected of Hungary's population and have betrayed the confidence that they otherwise expect of opposition parties. Should we really believe that every step of the way is dictated by the fight against terrorism? Should we believe you at any moment or time of the day that Hungary's threat is such that we give the Hungarian government confidence in the various pieces of legislation? What are you waiting for? Do you expect the opposition parties to sign anything after six months of really constructive professional debate and long-term and political debates? I believe that Hungary is not currently directly threatened by terrorism, but by the political terrorism that you are doing every day. I think that once and for all you have failed in this regard, and after you have succeeded in proving on such a security issue, on such a particular issue, that what you are asking is not true, let us not believe what you are asking, you can expect nothing from the opposition but to be ashamed of yourself. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2016-05-23-18	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Government, Mr Károly Kontrat wishes to respond to what has been said. My fellow Members, please take your seats quietly. Thank you. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2016-05-23-19	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, Following the brutal terrorist attack in Brussels on 22 March, it was clear that the instruments at the disposal of the Hungarian authorities in the fight against terrorism were not sufficient, so the government decided to draft a package of laws against terrorism at its next meeting on 23 March. This bill, this legislative package, has taken into account all the tools that serve the safety of Hungary, the Hungarian people, and this proposal has been fully incorporated by the Ministry of the Interior, who, on behalf of the government, has prepared and represented the proposal. You yourself pointed out, honourable Member, that several rounds of negotiations preceded the submission of the bill. The representatives of all five parliamentary parties were present, and the Minister of Interior, during the conciliation, sought to incorporate and accept in the bill proposals for the purpose of security, security for Hungarian people, security for Hungary. That was the case, and I would also like to refer once again to the timetable that the terrorist attack in Brussels took place on 22 March, and the decision to draft the legislative package was taken on 23 March, and the government then discussed it. So we have presented to this House the proposal which the five parliamentary parties have supported. Honourable Congressman, This proposal is currently pending a hearing of the Committee on Legislative Affairs. After the legislative committee hearing, the second round debate of this bill will take place here in front of this House, after which [[The president's ringing the bell.]] The vote on the amendments will take place and the final vote will take place. Honourable Congressman, I would like to inform you that, as far as we know, technical amendments can be made that serve even more security, the effective fight against terrorism, and that we do not know of a proposal that would frustrate the adoption of this bill, a package of laws. So, honourable Member, which contains your findings on the battle of power, I would like to say that they are without any basis. The government's aim is to adopt a bill that serves the safety of Hungarian people, Hungary. I believe that there is every chance that this proposal will be adopted. I ask you to support this very important proposal in the future as well as in the TAB and in the second round debate, and then in the decision on the amendments and in the final vote, instead of your ill-informed feelings. We hope that the adoption of this proposal will help ensure that Hungarian people are safer in Hungary, that the fight against terrorism is effective, and that prevention - I would like to underline this: prevention - should be effective, because our aim is not to commit any terrorist activity in Hungary. But this requires not only the adoption of the bill, but also the need for resources, personal conditions, material conditions and financial means. We trust that the government will be supported by your faction in creating these. Thank you very much. I trust your support. Thank you for your attention. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2016-05-23-20	I thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speeches before the agenda. Before we continue our work, I will ask my fellow Members to take their seats. The base noise in this room is so high, you can't hear each other. Dear Parliament, I would like to ask Mr Dezső Liberty to present the speakers who are not on the agenda. Mr. Messenger!
u2016-05-23-21	Dear Parliament, Today he applied for a speech after the agenda: R. Benedek Sallai, LMP; Zoltán Magyar, Jobbik; Balázs Ander, Jobbik; György László Lukács, Jobbik; Előd Novák, Jobbik; Mrs Loránt Hegedűs, Gergely Farkas, Jobbik. On Tuesday, the following representatives came forward before the agenda: Ágnes Kunhalmi, MSZP; Ikotity István, LMP; László Szászfalvi, KDNP; Zsolt Egyed, Jobbik; Gergely Gulyás, Fidesz. On Tuesday he applied for a speech after the agenda: Sallai R. Benedek, LMP; István Ikotity, LMP; Márta Demeter, MSZP; László György Lukács, Jobbik. On Wednesday, Dániel Z. Kárpát, Jobbik applied for a speech after the agenda.
u2016-05-23-22	Thank you, Mr. Notary. Dear Parliament, The agenda for our meeting starting today is coming up. We shall decide on the agenda, the duration of the meeting, the speaking time limits on the basis of a proposal put forward by the President. Dear Parliament, The group leaders were informed last week that, following the meeting of the House Committee, T/9784. and T/10307. There are no submissions on the agenda of Parliament's meeting starting today, as the Legislative Committee has not completed their negotiations. [[13.50]] Please take your seats and check that your card has been placed in the voting machine. Thank you. Dear Parliament, Parliamentary resolution on certain house rules 37. Pursuant to Article 1 (1) of the Rules of Procedure, Parliament may decide to negotiate certain items of the agenda in a time-frame. The proposal put forward by the President initiates the V/10571 on the steps needed for anti-offshore action. The Parliament will discuss the number 1 proposal in a four-hour time frame. The agenda recommendation shall include a time frame allocation. At the request of the Group of the Fidesz, Jobbik, KDNP and LMP, the resolution on certain house rules is adopted on the basis of Article 37. Paragraph 4 states that the time frame available to the political group will be doubled in the event of the adoption of a time-frame negotiation. I would like to ask Mr Lajos Szűcs to present the motion to split the time frame. Mr. Messenger!
u2016-05-23-23	Dear Parliament, The distribution of the proposed timeframe is as follows: 82 minutes for the Fidesz Group, with a doubling of which in total 164 minutes; 46 minutes for the MSZP Group, 41 minutes for the Jobbik Group, with a doubling of which it initiated, a total of 82 minutes; 38 minutes for the KDNP Group, a total of 76 minutes; 24 minutes for the LMP Group, a total of 48 minutes; and 9 minutes for the independent Members. The time limits provided for the factions include the 15-15 minutes lead speakers.
u2016-05-23-24	Thank you, Mr. Notary. Dear Parliament, Now it's time for the decision. I therefore ask the Honourable Parliament whether it agrees that the proposal will be dealt with in a time frame, as set out by the notary and modified by the request of Fidesz, Jobbik, KDNP and LMP. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the proposal by 127 votes in favour, 22 against and 3 abstentions in the time frame. Dear Parliament, We are now deciding on a proposal for a derogation from house rules. By way of derogation from the House Rule, the House Committee initiates the Parliament's T/10377 on Hungary's central budget for 2017 In the course of the negotiation of the present, the Committee on Budgets shall depart from the Rules of Procedure in such a way as to ensure that the summary report and the summary amendment are amended in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 93 of the Rules of Procedure. Without prejudice to the time limit laid down in paragraph 1 of Section 1 of this Article, it may submit it on Wednesday, 1 June 2016, until 2 p.m. The leader of any political group shall not be more than ten, the Rules of the House shall be 48. You may submit a request pursuant to paragraphs 2 and 4 of this Article. T/10377/1160 proposed a derogation from the house rules. You can get to know him on the website. Dear Parliament, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that in order to derogate from the Rules, the four-fifths of the Members present must have a vote in favour. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it agrees to derogate from the Rules of the House. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the derogation from the Rules by 149 votes in favour, 5 against and without abstentions. Dear Parliament, We are now deciding on the amendments to the agenda. The Fidesz Group proposes that the XXXIII Group: Summer Olympics and XVII. T/10726 on the tender and organizing of summer paralympic games T/10727 on the day of the Parliament's meeting on the day of the general debate of the bill No.2 on the amendment of the laws relating to certain compensations until the closure. Following a general discussion of the legislative proposal No. Anyone who agrees with that, please vote by raising your hands. [[Vote.]] Thank you. I declare that the visible majority of Parliament has accepted the proposal. Dear Parliament, The Group of the Fidesz Group proposed that the 2011 CXCVI on national assets be held at the Parliament's meeting on Tuesday. T/10718. T/10715 on the free transfer of state-owned property for the purpose of carrying out the public service tasks of the municipality until the closure of the general debate. Following a general discussion of the legislative proposal No. Anyone who agrees with that, please vote by raising your hands. [[Vote.]] Thank you. I declare that the visible majority of Parliament has accepted the proposal. Dear Parliament, We are now deciding on a proposal on the agenda put forward by the President. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts the recommendation on the agenda with the amendments adopted above. Please vote by raising your hands. [[Vote.]] Thank you. I declare that the visible majority of Parliament has accepted the proposal. Dear Parliament, In the absence of a committee agreement, we are now deciding on the Commission's discussion and decision-making. According to the proposal put forward by the President, the Parliament was entitled B/10755 on the activities of the Public Procurement Authority during the period from 1 January to 31 December 2015. The designated committee shall be invited to take its decision. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it invites the separate Economic Committee to attend the B/10755. for a decision to be taken on this proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament asked the designated committee to take a decision by 105 votes in favour, 49 against and without abstentions. Dear Parliament, A decision on a personal proposal will not take place today. Dear Parliament, Now, at 1:57 p.m., we move on to interpellation and immediate questions. Dear Parliament, I would like to inform you that the Speaker of Parliament is the House Rules 121. Mr Lajos Kepli K/10582. He rejected the written question submitted to the Minister for National Development because the motion was not within the minister's remit. Dear Parliament, Sándor Szabó, a representative of the MSZP, submitted an interpellation to the National Development Minister for the Ministry of Catfighting and the unreasonable centralisation of the country within days? It's an address. Mr Sándor Szabó has the floor.
u2016-05-23-25	Dear Minister, Mr. Secretary. I don't know who's going to answer, I guess, Mr. Secretary. As a result of legislative amendments, as of April 1, 2016, the National Waste Management Coordinator and Asset Management Ltd. has been supervised by the management of waste collected throughout the country in the field of public services. On the other hand, local government waste management companies have been doing their job for over a month and a half without knowing the conditions for applying the fee, the order for payment of the fee, the principle of allocating the public service fee, the detailed rules for managing the fee back and the content of the reporting. In this connection, I asked a written question, to which Mr János Fónagy, State Secretary, replied. Your answer was inconclusive. It was inconclusive because the Ministerial Decree on the Service Fee and the provision of public service services has not been published to date, i.e. the companies still do not know why they are working for and above all how much they are working for. Waste management companies are not yet aware of their revenue this year in mid-May, so all planning and responsible management are excluded. [[14.00]] The National Coordination Centre Ltd. However, the data reporting portal has not yet been launched, the content and format requirements for data reporting are not known. The Government Decree No. 2016/69 specifies the date of the first transmission of data to the public services, which would be 30 April 2016, however, since neither the Ministerial Decree nor the IT system of the coordinating centre has been completed to date, everyone has actually been forced to break the law. And then we haven't talked about the population, those who don't pay their public service fee to the coordinating centre, but, obviously, this will accumulate, and they will have to pay several monthly fees at the same time, which will be a serious problem in many families. Is that why I ask the Minister, the Secretary of State: will municipal and other companies dealing with waste management really fall in line because of unreasonable centralisation, which cannot pay their fuel bills, wages, contributions or other costs within days? Is that really what's gonna put people at a disadvantage, because they're gonna have to pay several months' bills at the same time? What guarantees are there that workers will get paid in time? How do you feel about improving the quality of the service if you do not even ensure that daily expenses are covered? I'm waiting for your answer. Thank you.
u2016-05-23-26	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, State Secretary Zsolt Szabó responds to the interpellation. Secretary of State, you have the floor.
u2016-05-23-27	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Honourable Congressman, The primary aim of the transformation of the waste management public service system is to achieve cost-effective operation. In the new public service system, the public service fee will be paid by the public to the coordinating body responsible for the public waste management mission, the so-called National Waste Management Coordinator and Asset Management Privately Operating Company. The coordinating body shall forward the service fee to the public service provider. The law on the procedure for determining and paying the service fee, the Ministerial Decree laying down the rules for the provision of data, has been approved and will be published in the Hungarian Gazette within days. The public service fee payable to the coordinating body depends on the quality of the service and the degree of contribution to the fulfilment of the European Union's obligations. This will allow waste management public services to be set at a high level, with EU obligations being met, at a reduced cost to the general public. The extent and order of payment of public service charges payable by the public is only affected by the transformation in so far as the fees due from 1 April are collected by NHKV. By 31 December 2016, the coordinating body shall charge the public service fee at the same frequency as the public service provider has billed. As of next year, it will issue a quarterly bill for public service charges. Due to the time needed for invoicing and charging, public service charges can typically only be used to finance the public service activity in the month following the invoicing, and accordingly, the financial conditions for the current smooth public service mission provision and the daily expenditure will be covered by the charges billed and collected by the public service operators in April. In order to ensure the conditions for the operation of the waste management public service, the coordinating body shall keep the public service providers in constant consultation and, as of 1 April, accept a sub-account for public service activities. The measures listed shall ensure the functionality of the public service providers and the smooth provision of tasks. Please accept my reply. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-05-23-28	Thank you for the Secretary of State's reply. I ask the congressman if he will accept the Secretary of State's answer. You have the floor.
u2016-05-23-29	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I cannot accept your reply, Mr Secretary, but I would rather ask further questions. Who and what interest groups does centralising waste management serve? What are you pushing this forced centralization, this crazy centralization, when it clearly doesn't work in any field? See the field of public education. But if they're pushing centralization at all costs, why don't you be prepared to do the job? Do you think, Mr. Secretary, it is acceptable that this central coordination centre has been in operation for a month and a half, and that it has not yet started its operation, and that it is only up to the goodwill of the companies that it has not covered up the country at all? Secretary of State, this company, the central company, has not started its operation, turn back from this road, cause no further disadvantage to the population, do not harm the municipalities, so I ask you to stop the operation of this company. Thank you. [[Interviews from the ranks of the MSZP: That's right! Applause in the ranks of the MSZP.]]
u2016-05-23-30	Thank you. Dear Parliament, The congressman didn't accept the Secretary of State's answer. I ask the Honourable Parliament if it will be accepted. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the State Secretary's reply 106 yes, 44 votes not, without abstention. Dear Parliament, György Szilágyi, representative of Jobbik, submitted an interpellation to the Minister of the Cabinet Office of the Prime Minister:. Are you offshore organizations? Come to the register, the Hungarian State is happy to pay you! In fact, the age of the offshore knights has flourished only with your government! 4th episode. On behalf of the Prime Minister, Minister for National Economy Mihály Varga, who is responsible for the subject, responds to the interpellation on behalf of Mr András Tállai. I give the floor to Congressman György Szilágyi.
u2016-05-23-31	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, On 1 April 2014, the Prime Minister's Office published a list of companies with an opaque ownership structure, but still supported by the EU. As I think you know, under the relevant legislation, the granting of aid to opaque companies is illegal, as is the case with any payment made to such entities. In recent weeks I have introduced Montana Kft., Szaktudás Kiadó Ház Zrt. and Pentamen Kft. In this case, all three companies have won and are still winning public procurement in the value of billions, with offshore companies. I asked, however, that they could not give a meaningful answer to the series of serious lawlessness, that they did not acknowledge the mistakes made, or that they did not promise to investigate the cases, so I am forced to continue presenting their abuses. Today, Noreg Kft. I'm presenting your case. Noreg Kft. was also granted non-refundable EU support after the Bajnai government; it is true that Orbán was more gallant than Bajnai, since you called Luxembourg's offshore company to the cash register five times, compared to the previous one-time 30 million. In fact, on September 30, 2015, Noreg Kft. In support of international professional R &amp; D participation, he received a grant of almost HUF 12 million. You know what I mean? The company you qualified as an offshore organization has been granted non-refundable grants for international professional participation. Your offshore classification, by the way, covers reality, indeed Noreg Kft. The owner of the non-transparent Yes Investment registered in Luxembourg since 2010, so this has not changed since your investigation. But even though it's an offshore company, according to you, it's still illegally expanding in state government orders. NISZ Zrt., the Directorate-General for Public Procurement and even the National Security Service have obtained it. There have been cases where he and his consortium partners received a net mandate of HUF 17 billion. [[It's an intervention from Jobbik's ranks.]] I am therefore asking, Mr Secretary of State, how can it be that the individual budgetary bodies are filling the pockets of an offshore company with a Luxembourg background, and that the company has been officially declared opaque once. After this list of 260 offshore organizations was drawn up, how did they ensure that these companies were actually excluded from state orders? And how long do I have to list their gross system failure violations in order to finally launch a comprehensive investigation and stop further violations by the government and its background institutions? Of course, if you know who or who is behind this unparalleled success company, which Gordon Bajnai and your governments apparently feed from the palms of their hands, you will now share these names with the entire public opinion. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] I'm looking forward to your unspoken response. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]] [[14.10]]
u2016-05-23-32	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, State Secretary András Tállai responds to the interpellation. Secretary of State, you have the floor.
u2016-05-23-33	Mr. President. Dear Parliament, First, the Fidesz government fought offshore companies, as it took a number of measures from 2010. Changed or created the new Fundamental Law [[Dr. András Schiffer: You have offended that too!]] This legislation is also included in the National Property Act, the Public Finance Act and the Public Procurement Act. In order to protect national assets and public funds, the Fundamental Law sets out the requirement for transparent management in both public funds chapters. Pursuant to Article 38 (4), a contract for the transfer or exploitation of national assets may be concluded only with an entity whose ownership structure, structure and activities relating to the management of the transferred or transferred national assets are transparent. The 2011 CLX on public finances. Act No. 1 also contains provisions on transparency in relation to the Fundamental Law in connection with the provision of budget support. The Aht. Chapter 29 on limits to the use of appropriations Paragraph 6 states that in the central sub-scheme of public finances, no contract with a legal person, an entity without legal personality, or a payment on the basis of such a contract, which does not constitute a transparent organisation, may be concluded at the expense of expenditure appropriations. The Aht. specify to whom budgetary support may be granted, among the specific rules applicable to budgetary support. One condition is that an entity should be considered a transparent entity. [[Dr. András Schiffer: Why don't you answer the question?]] This was not the case before the Fidesz government took office. [[Noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] That wasn't the drill. It was a practice that companies with an inaccessible ownership structure won mass orders in public procurement. One of the first tasks of the government was to change both the Public Procurement Act and the practice of public procurement. Every company that starts public procurement today has to reveal its real owner, and everyone has to comply with that rule. Only 44,000 companies were screened for EU public procurement, each had to declare whether the beneficiaries were backed by the actual owners. We've made laws that prohibit offshore companies from competing for public money. No left-wing government has ever done this before. As regards the specific issue raised by the Member, a comprehensive assessment of the beneficiaries of projects financed by EU funding in 2013 has been developed of the methodology for transparency investigations, which has since become a mandatory element of the decision-making procedure for EU grants, making transparent organisations highly safe to filter out. Noreg Kft. It was added to the list of non-transparent organisations on the basis of an investigation conducted in 2013. However, the company subsequently submitted a request for the establishment of a transparent rating, in which it revealed the ownership of the Yes Investment company. Contrary to what you said in your interpellation, you no longer named the company as the owner, but a Hungarian private individual, from then on you are no longer an offshore company. I can say that Noreg Kft. In any case, he has concluded a public contract in accordance with Hungarian law, and in no case has a public company concluded a contract with him in the event that it was considered opaque. So Noreg Kft. comply with the legal requirements and all contracts concluded with it comply with them. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-05-23-34	Thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. I ask Congressman if he will accept the Secretary of State's answer. You have the floor.
u2016-05-23-35	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Secretary of State, I'm sure you can't accept this because you're saying that you're fighting various corruption events and offshore companies. Of course, they struggle, in words. They hide in action because three times Csaba Dömötör answered, now he doesn't dare to come in, now you answer, it's a completely different thing. Mr. Secretary, I'm happy for you, although you've been a little stumped, but you've read the law on what you're insulting. That's what I'm talking about. These laws are constantly violated by the government, since they did not say a word about the other three companies. In the same way, I told you that you are filling your pockets with billions of forints illegally. Secretary of State, who's behind this? Tell me, in these companies, if you know why you don't give me names. Who are the owners you love as much as the Bajnai government loved them? Secretary of State, on your website, the Prime Minister's website is exposed to these offshore companies. You classified these companies as offshore, and you think that because you signed a paper, that I'm not an offshore, that's why you stopped being an offshore company? ! What you're doing is outrageous. You do not comply with the laws in Hungary! [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2016-05-23-36	Dear Parliament, The congressman didn't accept the Secretary of State's answer. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept it. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the State Secretary's reply by 107 votes to 107, 35 against and 3 abstentions. Dear Parliament, Bernadett Szél, representative of the LMP, submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Agriculture:, The beaver, the otter, the red-belliedunk, the predator, the Hungarian buco, the German buco, the silky-durbincs, the broad durbincs, the Lumnitzer clove, the King's grass, the daughter's knuckles, the Hungarian tarsa, the big firebush and the brown meadows with Fidesz, or is the government not going anywhere with management and maintenance plans for Natura 2000 so that free robbery can take place? It's an address. Congresswoman, you have the floor.
u2016-05-23-37	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, I also thought it important to name these species in particular in the title because they are all expected to fall victim to Fidesz activity, so I wanted the Fidesz and KDNP MPs to meet at least once in their lives with the names of those species. [[Moore in the pro-government benches.]] which, as victims of their activities, will once and for all disappear practically from the ranks of the living. [[Moore in the pro-government benches. Noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] Gentlemen, ladies! Keep your cool, there's gonna be some more information. We live in a country where there is already a propaganda museum, there is a separate ministry for Viktor Orbán. What doesn't have a ministry is, for example, [[Noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] work, such as health and environmental protection. When you were formed in 2010, you promised that there would be no harmful consequences for environmental protection and nature protection for your own green wallet. Since then, we have seen what is happening, the Green Authority has been placed under one political authority. There's conditions there like they used to be in the curse. National parks have virtually lost their professional autonomy, and we see that they are free prey on all environmental and green values of the economic interests behind Fidesz and Fidesz. We see that protected habitats and species now of European importance are not safe. What the chairman has read, these are all species that indicate Natura 2000. The point is that if they disappear from a Natura 2000 area, Hungary will have to give the European Commission some serious answers that it has not been able to ensure that these values are preserved. And then let's see what's going on a little bit like this in the country. There is a priority nature conservation area called the Danube and its floodplain, in which you are preparing to build a huge concrete-based aluminium mobile barrier in the part of the Rome Coast in Budapest, to cut 1500 trees for 12 billion forints. It is typical that, at the time of the decision, only a few patients were talking about trees and 2.5 billion forints, and we see that as Natura 2000 marker species, beaver, otter, red-belliedunka and many other marker species occur here. Of course, you have no idea what's going to happen to these species, and you don't care. But there is Balatonfenyves, for example: the giant sleigh and sailing port was recently handed over, which received EU funding of HUF 400 million. It's typical that I filed a complaint, and I'm running the investigation following my second complaint, and what we're seeing is that the investigation on this project has been terminated by admitting that the contractor or the builder has practically violated the Balaton Act. How can it happen in a country that if something is obviously illegal, nothing happens in this case, the pier can be built, only it will be ruined on Lake Balaton? But I can continue this story. There are many other projects that still fall victim to your work. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] I ask you exactly where you are in the preparation of the Natura 2000 site's plans for use, handling and maintenance. Dear Secretary of State, Please answer that question. [[14.20]]
u2016-05-23-38	Thank you, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, State Secretary Zsolt V. Németh responds to the interpellation. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2016-05-23-39	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Dear House, Contrary to what the congresswoman has stated, the practice of the public institution system has not changed at all as a result of the organizational change; it operates in accordance with the rules of domestic and EU law, in compliance with the legal requirements, and matters are treated accordingly by the authorities in the conduct of proceedings. In the case of Natura 2000 involvement, the implementation of impact assessment procedures during nature conservation procedures will ensure that investments comply with EU standards. If the impact assessment indicates that the planned investment has a significant impact on the Natura 2000 area, the authority shall refuse to issue the permit with a consistent rigour. In all cases, the Authority shall take into account that the activity shall not have an adverse effect on the Natura 2000 site or on the conservation status of the species and habitat types indicated and shall not be contrary to the objectives of the designation. Projects supported by the Union will be carried out carefully, taking into account the precautionary principle and by carrying out impact assessments. Apart from the planned establishment of a mobile barrier on the coast of Rome, we have already provided information to his party partner, Mr Sallai R. Benedek, on the matters mentioned in the interpellation. According to the information provided by the Ministry of Agriculture - on the subject of dam construction on the coast of Rome - an application for the opening of the administrative procedure has not been received in this case, and the investment is still in the planning phase. The precise location of the mobile barrier is not yet permanent. As far as we know, the dam is intended to be carried out in the unpaved part of the Danube coast, and the Natura 2000 area's involvement is not expected to exceed 500 square meters. I would like to inform you that the Natura 2000 area covers the river basin, and that the continental part of the coast is not protected. The implementation of the nature conservation authority procedure and the assessment of the impact will ensure the protection of our natural values. The preparation of plans for the maintenance of Natura 2000 sites referred to in the interpellation, which is a document describing the measures to ensure the conservation of our sites, agreed with the stakeholders, has gained considerable momentum in recent years. In line with EU expectations, a total of 285 areas were completed by the end of 2015, most of them, 242 by EAFRD, and the rest by other sources - see Swiss contribution, domestic budget. The completed 285 plans cover almost 56 percent of Natura 2000 sites. In 2016, we will draw up a further 52 maintenance plans from domestic budgetary resources. These plans do not, by the way, contain binding requirements, have no legal binding force, and help the authorities, of course, to make the right decisions. I trust that I have been able to answer all of your questions. Thank you very much for your attention, and I ask you to accept my reply. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-05-23-40	I thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. I ask Congresswoman if she will accept the Secretary of State's answer. You have the floor.
u2016-05-23-41	Mr. Secretary. I can't accept that, given that you were supposed to be prepared with impact assessments by about 2014, half of it is not ready or half of what you should have prepared. If a Natura 2000 site doesn't have a treatment plan, it's basically free robbery. In Balatonfenyves, this is what I believe is happening. There was no impact assessment here. It's a project contrary to the Balaton law, so what you said doesn't stop. Technically, no such document was produced. In Budapest, people live shorter because the air in this city is so bad. Nevertheless, they want to build Budakeszin J.R. Ewing farms, luxury farms, luxurious people. According to press reports, one member of the government is also interested in moving to our neighborhood, and another Fidesz administration is lobbying for the cause, according to press reports. I'm trying to figure out how an investment like this could have gotten a green light. I can assure you that I will be on this subject, and that you will finally prepare your Natura impact assessments.
u2016-05-23-42	Congresswoman! Your time's up, thank you. Dear Parliament, The congresswoman did not accept the Secretary of State's reply. I ask the Honourable Parliament if it will be accepted. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the State Secretary's reply by 107 votes in favour, 33 against and without abstention. Dear Parliament, László Salacz, representative of Fidesz, submitted an interpellation to the Foreign Minister for Foreign Affairs and Trade:, Can Hungary become one of the production centres of the world's automotive industry? It's an address. Mr László Salacz has the floor.
u2016-05-23-43	Dear Secretary of State, Mr President, Allow me to begin my interpellation by flashing the past of the left-wing opposition. As I'm sure you remember, during the governance of the MSZP, the country almost went bankrupt, the public debt increased, and the investor confidence was reduced in proportion. I think that we all agree that the current government is in favour of making investments and that, in order to disprove the qualification of the unit of plants designated by the opposition as a assembly plant, let me explain the details of the development on which my interpellation is based. Mercedes-Benz Manufacturing Hungary Kft. The Kecskemét factory is an important bridgehead not only between Hungary and Germany, but also in the presence of the company on the European market. At the end of last month, the factory's new body shop was set up, and we were able to look at the development of a new generation of compact cars. With a total investment of HUF 80 billion, a new hall of 99 thousand square meters was created, bearing in mind the implementation of the more friendly working conditions. Thanks to this, today nearly 4,000 people are employed directly by the factory. In terms of production data, the Kecskemét plant produced over 180,000 compact cars in 2015. The first product manufactured in Hungary was the B-class, while in 2013 the four-car CLA Coupé and in January 2015 the CLA Shooting Brake also started production in Kecskemét. For me, it is a special pride that the latter two types are manufactured exclusively in Hungary throughout the world for more than 180 countries. Mercedes-Benz Manufacturing Hungary Kft. It will also produce new generation of compact cars. It is planned to spend HUF 185 billion on the development of technology and the expansion of production capacity at the home site until 2018. In addition to the construction of the new exemplary body building, there will be further installation of efficient and innovative equipment. Dear House, Fellow Members! I think that these facts illustrate the results of the work that has been done since the election of the Hungarian government for key companies for the economy. The domestic plant is a key pillar of the production network of compact cars, and thanks to the development it is further strengthened within the international production network of the business. I think we can see another result of excellent cooperation with investors in Kecskemét. On this basis, I respectfully ask the Secretary of State whether Hungary can become one of the production centres of the world's automotive industry. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-05-23-44	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, State Secretary Levente Magyar responds to the interpellation. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2016-05-23-45	Honourable Congressman, Thank you very much for asking. Mr President, Dear House, Indeed, 2015 was outstanding in the Hungarian foreign economy. It could also be said that 2015 was the year of peak decisions in terms of external trade, because the total export value has never been as high before, and we have never had an external trade activity as high as in 2015. Indeed, this result has played a significant role in the economic driving sector, the automotive industry, where new records have also been made. In 2015, the production value of the sector increased to an unprecedented level of around EUR 7.8 billion, an increase of 17,6 percent compared to 2014. [[14.30]] Vehicle production accounted for more than 30% of total manufacturing production last year and its turnover was 92.1 percent, i.e. almost all of it came from exports. The value of automotive exports, also breaking a record, was almost EUR 20 billion, which exceeded the value of almost 14 percent, EUR 2.4 billion a year earlier. The importance of the sector is also shown by the fact that, while 20 percent of the total exports of Hungarian goods came from the automotive industry in 14 years, this ratio rose by almost two full percentage points last year. The performance of the sector is a major factor in the balanced growth of the Hungarian economy, including the 7.5 percent increase in industrial production last year. The number of workers in the automotive industry exceeded the value of two years earlier by 13 percent, and today it represents a safe livelihood and perspective prosperity for some 150 thousand Hungarian families. However, we must not forget that the sector is moving on a dynamic development path, which affects the competitiveness of our economy in a wider spectrum. In Hungary, automotive companies are now not only a assembly plant, but their R &amp; D and innovation activities are also constantly expanding, which increasingly involve Hungarian higher education institutions, research centres and small and medium-sized enterprises. These efforts are consistent with the government's objective of becoming not only a production centre but also an innovation centre. In addition, large integrating automotive companies not only support the organizational, management and quality development of their suppliers through strict requirements, but also through active advice and training, increasing their international competitiveness. Companies are at the forefront of dual training, helping thousands of young professionals to achieve high quality and marketable knowledge. Of the 67 projects managed by the National Investment Agency in 2015 and completed with a positive investment decision, 17 were involved in the automotive industry, which resulted in a total investment of EUR 761 million, creating nearly 4300 jobs. And this series is far from over, dear House, because 40 out of the 170 projects currently under negotiation affect the automotive industry, and with the implementation of these projects, an additional 8 000 jobs can be created in this sector, i.e. eight thousand, in the case of today's parameters. The government pays particular attention to the fact that more than one third of the 67 strategic agreements with large investors are directly related to the automotive industry. We can therefore confidently say that Hungary is one of the automotive centres of the region and Europe, a major player of the industry in the world compared to the size of the economy and the number of inhabitants, which will continue to grow in the future. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-05-23-46	I thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. I'm asking Congressman if he'll accept the Secretary of State's answer. You have the floor.
u2016-05-23-47	Mr. Secretary. I respectfully accept your answer. Christian Wolff, the new head of Mercedes-Benz Manufacturing Hungary's Kecskemét plant, said that he visited the world in many ways, but had never met such determined, proud and well-motivated workers in the world as he did in Hungary and Kecskemét. What he sees as a challenge for the future is the provision of the right team of professionals. As Secretary of State, he said in his reply, with dual training, we were able to prevent this professional supply from taking place in advance, and to provide a sufficient quantity and quality of professional staff for automotive companies. I am pleased to see that the government, the city of Kecskemét and automotive companies have similar views on the future and economic prospects. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-05-23-48	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, The congressman accepted the Secretary of State's reply. Dear Parliament, Mr. Lajos Korózs, representative of the MSZP, submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Human Resources:. Back to the Middle Ages? Or where else is the state leaving? What is the real reason for introducing compulsory parenting? You have the floor, Congressman.
u2016-05-23-49	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, The government, as we know, will sue the institution of parenting from June through the amendment of the civil code. All this has already been published in the Fundamental Law, but the Ptk. If an elderly person's pension is not sufficient for a living, he or she will be able to make up for it, or if the parent receives an elderly home care, the child will pay the cost of the care. All this, I imagine, came to the mind of the government for a reason, months ago it was decided that care classes would be abolished in hospital care and classified as one of the tasks of the social system. At the time of the amendment of the health laws, the power of the government to decide on the details of the transformation was already raised, and by chance it would not happen with Parliament's knowledge. The way I see it, they're kicking the last nail into the social security system. During the debate on the proposal, the State Secretary for Health clearly stated that he believes that chronic care should not be wasted on the resources of the E Fund - I stress: he said that it was wasted - and he confirmed our assumption that the government needed the properties where these institutions now operate. Professionally, it may even be possible to argue exactly what kind of care, under what circumstances, where it should take place, but since it is only up to the government to decide, it is clear that professionalism is not the point, and the aim is once again to withdraw funds. 'Cause if they're gonna save money on all of this, then why would they have more money in the social services system? Well, that's why we need the Ptk. to make sure that people, the children of older people, pay the necessary extra. Everyone is aware that it is rare to have children who would not help their elderly or sick parents if they could; just as a parent who would not do everything possible for their children. So it would be okay for the state to expect mutual care, but that is not the case here, but that, hiding behind the basic solidarity in the families, the government is trying to remove another slice from the social system, while at the same time trying to pin the burden of prosperity on individuals. The government's formula is simple, to say the usual: making a target group a scapegoat, calling the state resources spent on them wasteful, and finally pulling the soil out of their feet, eliminating their care or making it pay. I was gonna say something really rude, but I think the walls of the house can't take it. That is why I am asking Mr Secretary of State why another billion are being deducted from health care and social care systems and why they want to make people pay for these costs. I'm waiting for your answer.
u2016-05-23-50	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, State Secretary Bence Rétvári responds to the interpellation. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2016-05-23-51	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, You know very well, Mr President, because the first debate of the budget law in this House has already taken place that in the next year's budget, all the medical bills will be expanded, in the order of more than HUF 100 billion, and the social register will be extended, in the order of nearly HUF 10 billion in the following year. So there is no pressure in any sector that should be forced to impose any restrictions which are customary in your time. This has not always been the case in previous decades. Let me quote you from 2007, when you said that non-increased residential institutions have actually reduced the standard for one patient by HUF 30,000. There were times when they really reduced care for the needy, the elderly. You were also talking about a significant reduction in the number of residential institutions providing increased care. Let's say this HUF 30,000 is dwarfed compared to what you have taken away from the high-level services, because in these institutions there will be a decrease of nearly HUF 100,000, but you have justified that these are economic enterprises, that is why the increase is justified. But he continued, even in Inforadio, he said this interview about the new support system, in Hungarian about the reductions, that not all people should, after they have grown old, automatically get into the nursing home - a quote from you - in his own environment, with his neighbors, with his friends, I think you can stay in much better condition. So you said that instead of the social care system, perhaps the neighbors or friends tend to the elderly. [[Lajos Korózs: But that's not what I said, Bence!]] At that time, this kind of social compassion was not so typical of your speech, but it was a different period, the period of socialist governments, when the amount of funds that could be used for social purposes really decreased, when it was not that there was an increase in the earnings of those working there, whether with a sectoral wage supplement or with a wage supplement, but there were really 30 and 100 thousand HUF normative deductions in 2007. [[14.40]] The current amendment, as you said, is a legislative obligation under the Fundamental Law, as it was natural for parents to take care of their children, the new Fundamental Law also stated that single parents who have a difficult livelihood and cannot support themselves and maintain them, are the first priority for their children to care for. And I believe that this is not a question of the overwhelming majority of people, because if a parent raised a child and then the parent became widowed, remained alone, could no longer care for his own maintenance, then it is justified that if his child has the opportunity to care for his parents, then he should return some of the care he received as a child, return it to his father, return it to his mother, and take care of the parent. And if there is no such child who can take care of the parent, then obviously state aid will come in, because you could not list a lot in which the care of the state would change or decrease this year or next year. The rules on access to social services are not affected to any extent by this amendment of the law, this amendment to the Civil Code that we have talked about over the past few weeks, it is all about common sense, based on our natural family approach, that where the child is provided for a living, but the parent is deprived, the child is there to help his parents. This is also fair, for there are families, some children who actually care for their parents even to the very end, while others do not take this sacrifice, but rather choose state aid, and leave their parents to the care of the state - the ten million people in Hungarian. We say that this would be unfair, too, if someone who takes care of their parents would be put at a disadvantage compared to someone who does not care for the parent. This amendment is therefore justified. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2016-05-23-52	Thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. I'm asking Congressman if he'll accept the Secretary of State's answer. You have the floor.
u2016-05-23-53	Thank you very much. I don't accept it, Mr. Secretary. I have never claimed that market solutions have no role to play in the social care system. I have never claimed that benefits close to home are not justified either in relation to or in favour of residential institutions. You're proclaiming how solidarity this is with your system. I think that this system is not solidarity, I think this solution is not family-friendly, this solution is not old-fashioned, but it is very condescending, very humiliating, and - which is the worst for me - it is turning generations against each other. From here only one step... - since the OEP was terminated, the Directorate-General for Pension Insurance was abolished, there is virtually no social security in Hungary today, and now they want to have people and their families pay contributions for 40-45 years, and they have paid the price. Thank you very much, Mr. President. I don't accept the answer.
u2016-05-23-54	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Congressman didn't accept the Secretary of State's answer. I ask the Honourable Parliament if it will be accepted. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament accepted the State Secretary's reply by 102 votes in favour, 37 against. Dear Parliament, László György Lukács, representative of Jobbik, submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Human Resources: Why does the Government not allow the public to know what is missing from their hospitals? It's an address. Mr László György Lukács has the floor.
u2016-05-23-55	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, In mid-April this year, I contacted more than a hundred health institutions with a written request to ask whether the institution has a lack of equipment, including bandages, rubber gloves, fabric, which would require a great deal of safe care for patients and to facilitate professional work for workers. I did this because a case at Semmelweis University's Skin Clinic has shown that the availability of banal devices, objects like rubber gloves, often causes serious problems for individual institutions. I received answers with varying content, but essentially polite and prudent wording, some institutions reported that they lacked nothing, but there were also honest hospitals that dared to write that they could accept new or barely used ones from textiles or sick beds. Of course, not all institutions took honest answers seriously. As it became apparent from the summary of the answers and from the internal letter received by the RTL Club, the hospitals in the Central Hungarian region gave me a completely identical, two-story answer in exchange for my sincere interest. The answer was the same as the letter sent to the institutions by the regional director of the State Health Care Centre, in which he asked us to say that he instructs the heads of the institutions to give me the meaningless answer he provided. The method of procedure used by the Central Hungarian Regional Directorate of the State Health Care Centre, which has just been described, is worrying and unworthy in several points. Among other things, because it gives the institution the impression that it has no idea what means it is missing. But it also gives the impression that he doesn't care what tools he lacks, and he doesn't deserve a meaningful answer. Such behavior is a reverse to transparency. Yet, when we look at hospitals and in hospitals what is most important, only transparency can get them out of the pit where they are; transparency about how they farm, how much is lacking, how they stand with workers, how they stand with hospital infections, how their debts are, for example. In view of all this, I would like to ask you, Mr Secretary of State, to answer the following questions. Will there be a personal consequence of the template lettering that seriously undermines institutional public trust against transparency? What was the need for institutions to give instructions to respond with a template letter instead of discovering reality? Will anyone ever get an honest answer in the near future if they ask about the state of health institutions? For the sake of the patients or to the detriment of them, does the hospital maintainer not want to give a straight answer? I look forward to your honest reply, free of misconception. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2016-05-23-56	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, State Secretary Bence Rétvári responds to the interpellation. Secretary of State, you have the floor.
u2016-05-23-57	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, There is some color or curiosity, or irony, that today he stands up a representative of Jobbik and refers to the news of RTL Club as an undisputed source, while before 2010 Gábor Vona campaigned on how to shut down commercial media and how the RTL Club would end. [[Márton Gyöngyösi: No contradictions! Where's the contradiction?]] That's what they said before 2010, now, after 2014, that if there's a credible source, it's the RTL Club. You think about it, read through your old statements, and then compare what you're thinking right now. But the problem is, we don't know exactly what you're gonna think in two or three years. Then the other is that it starts from a news that opposition media are most likely to receive. You referred to the University of Semmelweis here, but you did not refer to how Semmelweis University denied the basis of that news, which said that there were different gloves from which all of them were available, and at a clinical meeting an instruction was given to use gloves for surgical use in the O.R. as long as disposable rubber gloves for patient trials were used for patient trials. Then they ordered a OSH check at the Skin, Gender and Dermatological Clinic, and they didn't find any deficiencies there. You also forgot to say that in your speech. And also that these different rubber gloves are used in the SOTE clinic according to WHO recommendations, obviously in accordance with their purpose. Instead of taking note of this, you started writing letters to hospital directors, perhaps putting them in the most awkward position of writing letters as a party politician. Obviously, they notified this to the State Health Services Center, which apparently responded to them, and said that everyone was obviously exploring the real situation and sending some background material and materials to the directors. But the directors themselves decided what to say. At the same time, it is very dangerous for you to take politics and politics into health care institutions in this way. At the same time, I can confirm to you that, in various ways, according to legislation, the ÁEEK also examines the proper functioning of hospitals, and there are very detailed legal requirements for this. Balanced and quality health care is constantly ensured. You are well aware that the hospital infrastructure itself, precisely so that such conditions, which are included in these regulations, can be met by hospitals, has been a HUF 322 billion investment in infrastructure in the last six years from EU and domestic sources, and an additional HUF 104.6 billion has been spent on instruments and instruments, also on public funds. [[14.50]] So we have tried to give everyone the opportunity to meet the minimum conditions and to conclude both from gloves and medical instruments and from the state of hospital buildings that they meet the requirements. At the same time, it is a little strange that you, who dealt with the export of nurses and doctors abroad and proudly reported how you managed to get 62 doctors out of your family business - another important condition was that you had the proper and well-trained number of doctors in hospitals in Ireland in the first half of 2012, only in six months of 2012 - when you represented this kind of business-oriented health attitude, which, although the conditions of care for patients have deteriorated, has led to a weakening of care, but it has done good and gained a financial advantage for that company, well, after being very strange and uncredited, that you are concerned about the facilities, conditions and operating in hospitals. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-05-23-58	Thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. I ask Congressman if he will accept the Secretary of State's answer. You have the floor.
u2016-05-23-59	Thank you very much. I am not at liberty to accept this answer, Mr. Secretary of State, even because of the fact that I have in my hand the letters in my hand, and in order to identify the identity of these letters, we do not need to have such knowledge, anyone can read this and see that the dozens of letters in my hand are literally identical. Do you know, Mr. Secretary, what is the big problem with this? That you're giving orders within the medical community. They operate the same system in this healthcare system as well as in healthcare institutions, which, we know, has already been used in other ways and in other areas. If someone at your house says they can't, if Viktor won't let them, they won't do it. It seems that there is no proper response to the public, that hospitals cannot be transparent because someone, perhaps Viktor Orbán, does not allow it. We need transparency, because without it, public confidence in hospitals will be lost, and we're still on the verge of ruin. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2016-05-23-60	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Congressman did not accept the State Secretary's response to the interpellation. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept it. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the State Secretary's reply by 107 votes in favour, 33 against and 1 abstention. Dear Parliament, István Hollik, a representative of KDNP, has submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Justice: å The European patent with unitary effect puts the Hungarian SME sector at a disadvantage? It's an address. It is for Congressman István Hollik.
u2016-05-23-61	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, The Competitiveness Council of the European Union adopted two draft regulations for the creation of a European patent with unitary effect during the Hungarian EU presidency in 2011. One relates to the implementation of the patent while the other deals with language issues. In 2013, the Convention on the Unified Patent Court was also signed by the Parties. In the framework of enhanced cooperation on the EU patent, 25 countries, i.e. the 28-member European Union, with the exception of Italy, Spain and Croatia, have created the EU patent, which can be applied as a patent as one country. The enhanced cooperation will be open, further or new EU Member States will be able to join. In the meantime, Italy has joined this cooperation, but Poland has withdrawn. [[Dr. János Latorcai, vice-president of the Parliament, takes the chair.]] There is no doubt that the EU patent has its advantages and disadvantages. The problem is that the benefits come from richer, more developed countries and companies, but the disadvantages are in smaller and technologically disadvantaged countries, such as Hungary. The patent is a restrictive right. The patent holder can only say who can exploit his invention. So far, 3 000 patent rights from abroad have restricted Hungarian developers every year, with the entry into force of the single EU patent this number is expected to increase to 60,000. After the introduction of the EU patent, those who have applied their patent only in Germany, Britain or France will probably choose the EU patent, and they will receive Hungarian patent as a gift, among other things, in addition to their previous portfolio. It therefore seems clear that ratification of the Convention in the short term would be particularly detrimental to the Hungarian startups and the entire SME sector. With regard to the introduction of a European patent with unitary effect in Hungary, some see the scenario that the government will only ratify the agreement if the Hungarian innovation expenditure exceeds 1.8 per cent of GDP, because then domestic businesses will be in a state of development when they are no longer disadvantaged by the ratification of the convention. For Hungary, this would be estimated at around 2019. In view of the above, I ask the honourable Secretary of State: what does the government do about the protection of innovation in Hungary, and when will it ratify the Convention? Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-05-23-62	Thank you very much, Congressman. I would like to welcome my fellow Members. The answer will be given by State Secretary Pál Völner. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2016-05-23-63	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, As you know, the government considers it a priority to support the R &amp; D activities of domestic businesses and to stimulate innovation, which is one of the keys to our country's competitiveness. The institutional system of innovation and intellectual property protection is linked. The strategies and programmes adopted by the Government in recent years in the context of innovation and industrial rights are closely interlinked, taking into account the objectives of innovation and industrial rights and the tasks to achieve these objectives. The European Commission's study with the European Patent Office and the Office for Harmonisation in the Internal Market in 2013 concluded that the intellectual property-intensive sectors in Hungary have a higher economic weight than the EU average. Accordingly, the proper protection and patenting of the results of research and development is a priority for businesses. In view of all of this, we consider it important that a wide range of forms of protection be available to our businesses in order to ensure adequate protection of their intellectual property. The aim of the European patent reform is to create a European patent with unitary effect, thus completing a segment of the internal market. In view of the government's support for the creation and growth of small and medium-sized enterprises with exportable products and manufacturing processes based on knowledge and innovation, the presence of these SMEs on the foreign market can be ensured if Hungary participates in the Unified Protection Scheme. In view of all of these circumstances, Hungary has, during its 2011 EU Presidency, kept the promotion of EU patent reform as a priority and is actively involved in the implementation process. The Government also set the ratification of the Agreement on the Unified Patent Court as a political objective in the National Strategy for the Protection of Intellectual Property, the Jedlik Plan. Before the ratification decision is taken, the Ministry of Justice will consider all relevant circumstances, including the extent to which the patent reform will affect the domestic small and medium-sized enterprises sector. Please accept my reply. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-05-23-64	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I ask Congressman István Hollik if he will accept the State Secretary's answer. Here you go.
u2016-05-23-65	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Thank you very much, Mr Secretary, for your comprehensive response. We see that new start-up small and medium-sized enterprises in the knowledge-intensive sector and start-ups also perform well at international level and contribute increasingly to the development of the Hungarian economy. It is important that the Hungarian Government does everything in its power to create a regulation and a legal environment that favours these businesses. [[15.00]] I ask the Secretary of State to take this into account, as has been the case so far, in the context of a single EU patent. I accept your reply with thanks. [[It's a rare round of applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-05-23-66	Thank you very much, Congressman. Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, Mr. András Schiffer, representative of the LMP, submitted an interpellation to the Prime Minister. When will the government release the Hungarian Post from offshore-loving bankers? It's an address. The interpellation will be answered on behalf of the Prime Minister by János Lázár, Head of the Prime Minister's Office, who is responsible and competent according to the subject. Mr. Team Leader, you have the floor. Here you go.
u2016-05-23-67	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Minister, From 2003 onwards, the caviar left government began to close the post offices in small settlements. In most villages, the closure of the mail was seen as a trauma. Then a nationwide movement was launched to save the mail and equalise the living conditions of the people living in the countryside. 911 settlements joined the movement, more than a quarter of the Hungarian settlements. Then the Fidesz-KDNP joined the small post office with their full breast width, opposition, and promised to shut down and reopen. Even in his last speech before the 2010 elections, Viktor Orbán advocated the reopening of the post offices. For the first time after 2010, 5 of the 500 were re-opened. Then the process stopped. Fidesz has fooled voters in this area as well as in the matter of re-opening small schools or re-installing railway lines. In addition to the post office, you have defended schools and railway wing lines in opposition. Now, not only would he be working again to expand the postal network, but the government is closing down hundreds of post offices, driven by some interest. So he's starting over with the village destruction that the previous government abandoned. The question is whose interest it is. In most cases, Magyar Posta is a public company, performing public tasks. At the same time, the FHB group is becoming increasingly involved in business, and the FHB group is, in particular, a permanent partner in this. It's so permanent that they have several companies, business together. In fact, FHB has obtained a number of services that the Posta should have filed for public procurement without competition. This is also the case for the purchase of credit card terminals or certain software, and this is also seen in the management of an investment account. Since then, the 2700 units of Posta have been providing customer services to FHB in public money. One of their joint companies, the Hungarian Postal Savings Fund, buys office buildings and malls in the order of 100 billion. By the way, this is handled by a company of FHB, not cheap. The merger with FHB is also clear in the continuation of village destruction, putting in place the member cooperatives managed by the Savings Bank owned by FHB since forced integration. The fact that the leaders of Magyar Posta have several former FHBs is no longer surprising. Among its owners, FHB has a high level of interest in offshore shops. More than 9 percent of FHB's owner is Silvermist Estate, founded in Panama, with an indirect holding of 15 percent, making Heinrich Pecina the largest owner of FHB through his interests, who, according to Panamanian documents, conducted offshore deals with János Erős. But he has a lot of joint business with the other major owner of FHB, Zoltán Spéder, the well-known Hungarian oligarch. Dear Minister, Why does the government represent the interests of an offshore group of bankers, and not the public property, the people of the country to whom they promised before 2010? [[It's a rare applause in the ranks of the independent.]]
u2016-05-23-68	Thank you very much, Mr. Group Leader. Minister János Lázár will respond to what has been said. Here you go.
u2016-05-23-69	Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Dear fellow Member Schiffer, You didn't sound very personal. In recent years, since you have been an esteemed Member of Parliament and even a group leader, you have never spoken in this style. I don't know what the reason for this is, but at some point I'd like to be given the opportunity to learn the reasons. I would be happy to inform you and any member of the Hungarian Parliament, and we are also at the disposal of the press at any time about Magyar Posta's affairs. Magyar Posta is a public service, a public service company with no secrets. There is no secret to the LMP fraction and there is no secret to any Hungarian tax-paying citizen. We are talking about a 150-year-old company, a 150-year-old state company, and this 150-year-old state company is one of the few Hungarian state companies that has to fight their own battles under liberalised conditions and stay on their feet. The liberalised market of which, I think, you may be one of the great adherents [[Dr. András Schiffer: I'm not.]] "The liberalised market means that we must be able to cope competitively. Magyar Posta is a state company generating profits, not a state company generating losses. I would like to draw this to your attention, Mr President, which is after the fact that parcel delivery services are no longer a state monopoly, and in Hungary, 7 of the 8 largest parcel companies are foreign and good performances. But let's not beat around the bush, dear congressman. In view of the fact that Magyar Posta, since it has not been able to carry out financial services in cooperation with other financial institutions, has been able to perform financial services only in 2011-2012 with two large companies, one of which was a foreign bank, Erste Bank has terminated its cooperation with the Posta, has left with 160,000 account clients and has left the Magyar Posta. Magyar Posta then chose a Hungarian bank, FHB as a partner, which resulted in Magyar Posta selling HUF 450 billion of sovereign debt to Hungarian entrepreneurs and Hungarian taxpayers. Congressman! Before 2012, Erste Bank refused to sell Hungarian sovereign debt. The proportion of sovereign debt placed on the market by Magyar Posta has decreased. We chose FHB, we chose the Hungarian bank to sell Hungarian sovereign debt to Hungarian voters. This is a great success in financing the Hungarian state. In addition, Magyar Posta does not use services, but is a partner of companies, such as the Hungarian savings cooperatives. What I can tell you is that as long as I have the exercise of ownership rights, Magyar Posta will cooperate with Hungarian banks. This practically means that the Hungarian savings cooperatives, which are among the owners of the Hungarian savings cooperative shares. That is a very important point, and I am ready to discuss what service we need to provide to a villager, a villager, in a discussion between Parliament and factions. Today, I think it is the right path when we try to ensure that the savings cooperatives and Posta, the Hungarian-owned savings cooperatives and the national-owned Posta jointly try to provide financial services to Hungarian voters. I still do not see, Congressman, what is your problem with the Hungarian bank, the Hungarian national-owned Posta, the Hungarian savings cooperatives, which is one of the few banking groups that has not been in foreign hands in the last 25 years. On the other hand, yes, Congressman, I know Zoltán Spéder, as I believe you know him. [[Dr. András Schiffer: I don't know him.]] And I consider Zoltán Spéder not a criminal, but a respected Hungarian entrepreneur. Nor do I keep it a secret that I am a good friend of mine, nor do I keep it a secret that I always have a relationship with my friends and good friends when it is not for them, but for the Hungarian state. Cooperation with FHB has brought the Hungarian State a profit, my honourable fellow Member. Please support this. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-05-23-70	Thank you very much, Minister. I'll ask Mr. Group Leader if he'll accept the Minister's answer.
u2016-05-23-71	I don't accept the Minister's answer. This response showed that it is very difficult to be friends with János Lázár in Hungary today. I must disappoint you, Minister, I do not have such friends. However, the fact is that I naturally support and support the fact that they want to cooperate with Hungarian-owned banks. It is the specific situation that is outrageous, and you did not respond to it. Because of the losses, the Hungarian Post has had to deposit 750 million forints at the joint real estate fund in the last three years, while FHB has spent 200 million and 750 million from the Hungarian taxpayers' money. Two, why have thousands of people been fired from the post offices in the last few months? Besides, you're mistaken, Minister. The LMP has never supported the liberalisation of public services. In comparison, it was the first Orbán government to offer liberalisation of public services within the WTO. Four: why didn't the LMP support its demand for offshore knights not to deal with the Hungarian state or publicly owned companies? You've already refused to answer that question. Thank you very much.
u2016-05-23-72	Dear Parliament, Mr. Team Leader, as we've heard, you didn't accept the Minister's answer. That's why I'm asking you if you'll accept it. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the ministerial response by 110 votes to 30, with no abstentions. Dear Parliament, Representative Mihály Witzmann, representative of Fidesz, has submitted an interpellation to the Foreign Minister for Foreign Affairs and Trade:. Growing external trade! How does the recovery of external relations help the Hungarian economy? It's an address. Congressman Mihály Witzmann has the floor. Here you go, Congressman. [[15.10]]
u2016-05-23-73	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, Looking at the macroeconomic data of the years since the change of government in 2010, it is now clear that, despite all the difficulties, the country's economic affairs have been turned in the right direction. And I also think, ladies and gentlemen, that regardless of party policy or party sympathy or ideology, we can all agree that it is in our interest to keep the promotion, support and development of Hungarian suppliers' capacities as a priority for our national economy and therefore to do everything together. It is also an important goal not only to reach the EU markets, but also to benefit from the economic growth of the countries to our east. For this reason, I would also like to highlight exports, the importance of which is also outstanding because, on the one hand, it represents a serious currency revenue for the country and, on the other hand, it also makes a major contribution to the effective improvement of the balance of payments. However, before I get to the details, I think it is worth recalling the times when the situation of the Hungarian economy was completely different. Eight years ago, during the rampage of the Gyurcsány-Bajna era, Hungary was forced to ask the International Monetary Fund again ten years after the Bokros package to maintain its solvency. The EU-IMF loan, taken up at a panic-like speed, was needed because although the collapse like that of Iceland had fortunately escaped our country, experts from the Gyurcsány government and the Hungarian National Bank in the first half of October 2008 were seriously concerned that the bankruptcy would occur. By the way, at the time of the crisis, Hungary had a debt of almost EUR 3 billion within a year, which had to be renewed, but this became almost impossible due to the total freezing of the sovereign debt market. Such a domestic environment certainly did not increase confidence in the Hungarian economy, so it is no wonder that during this period the value of exports decreased significantly and foreign trade also decreased. It is clear that, on the other hand, we have been making progress in this area since 2010, as official statistics regularly report on the surplus of the external trade balance. For example, according to the latest data of KSH, in February this year the volume of exports exceeded about 9.5 percent, and the volume of imports was 11 percent higher than the one year earlier. Dear Parliament, I think it is important to point out that the surplus on the external trade balance has increased by EUR 111 million and totalled around EUR 978 million. We can also see a positive trend this year, as in the first two months of 2016, the surplus of the external trade balance reached EUR 1.5 billion. It is worth looking at the sectors that have the greatest potential for growth. For food, drinks and tobacco products, export volumes increased by 3.7 percent, while imports increased by 2.8 percent. In particular, exports of live animals, meats and meat products have increased, which is also a good indicator of the positive developments in domestic agriculture. In the light of the above, I respectfully ask the Secretary of State how the Hungarian economy is helped by the recovery of external relations. I'm looking forward to your reply. [[Applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2016-05-23-74	Thank you very much, Congressman. The answer will be given by State Secretary Levente Magyar. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2016-05-23-75	Thank you for asking. Honourable Congressman, Mr President, Dear House, It is well known that Hungary is an open country; one of the most open countries in the European Union, only Slovakia, is ahead of us. In this respect, Slovakia's GDP and economic growth are in a stronger proportion to the performance of the foreign economy than Hungary's. In this respect, honourable Member, we must focus our foreign policy on acquiring new markets for Hungarian products; we will find new sources of investment capital for the development of Hungarian industry. According to this, we have put foreign trade development at the heart of our foreign policy and announced the Eastern opening strategy and a few years ago the Southern opening strategy, the first fruits of which we can now feel tangible. 2015 was the year of peak decisions in the Hungarian foreign economy, and I would like to emphasise this once again, and again today. Never in Hungarian economic history exports of the same volume were made by Hungarian companies as last year. The external trade balance has never been as high as last year. I would like to draw attention to the figure that between 2014 and 2015, around EUR 1.8 billion is the difference between the activity of the external trade balance. This is an extraordinary figure, an increase of about 25 percent in the course of a year. This record performance was, of course, required the involvement of all the government bodies, but perhaps the flagship of these results is the Investment Agency and the Hungarian National Trading House, which is the depositary of the task that the Member also mentioned, namely that we would like to send the Hungarian small and medium-sized enterprises more than ever to distant external markets. According to this, in this spirit, the trading house has an active relationship with some 4,000 Hungarian companies, and in the first quarter of 2016 it presented the products and services of around 400 companies abroad, from Japan to South America. As regards the results of the Investment Agency, honourable Member, a positive decision was taken last year for 67 investment projects. They bring about 13 thousand new jobs and 1.5 billion euros of working capital to Hungary. This is also a top in every respect. In the first quarter of 2016, the Investment Agency gave a positive assessment of 17 projects, representing a total of around 5,500 jobs and a capital injection of nearly EUR 600 million into the country's economy. As regards export financing, i.e. the third important pillar of our export policy, in addition to market acquisition and investment promotion, Eximbank had a loan holding of approximately HUF 704.5 billion at the end of 2015; the amount of loans paid amounted to HUF 400 billion in 2015. This is nearly 40 percent higher than in 2014, so here we can talk about a dynamic, explosive development in all sectors. In a few words, honourable Member, about the additional potential of our agricultural exports, if I may say so. The principle of our foreign economic policy is that its success must be measured not primarily in objective figures, but in the extent to which people, especially people in the countryside, are affected by its positive effects. And here agriculture plays a prominent role. Getting new markets, increasing the capitalisation of Hungarian agriculture, technological modernisation, increasing added value, increasing the proportion of processing, these are the reserves that can increase Hungarian agricultural exports by up to the order of magnitude as follows: [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] Two or three years, even in the short term. Thank you very much for your attention. Please accept my reply. [[Applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2016-05-23-76	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I will ask Mr Mihály Witzmann if he will accept the State Secretary's reply. Here you go.
u2016-05-23-77	Thank you very much, Mr Secretary of State, for your detailed reply, which I naturally accept, and I trust that improved relations between Hungary's foreign trade and foreign trade will in the future open up opportunities for more domestic businesses to expand economic activity, increase employment or even strengthen export activity. Indeed, strengthening Hungarian competitive businesses can make a major contribution to the successful economic policy that we have seen since 2010. As a Member of Parliament in Somogy County and Siófok, I am pleased to say that I have recently held discussions with the leaders of several local businesses in the region of Siófok, and I have personally been able to see that the trends that are improving are becoming more tangible than those of companies in the region of Siófok, whether in terms of increasing employment, economic recovery or even in terms of export growth. That is why I respectfully ask the Secretary of State and, through you, the Hungarian Government to continue on this path and to do everything in the [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] to further strengthen Hungarian businesses. Thank you so much for listening. [[Applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2016-05-23-78	Thank you very much, Congressman. The congressman accepted the Secretary of State's answer. Dear Parliament, Congressman Imre Horváth, representative of the MSZP, submitted an interpellation to the Minister of the Interior:. Where did the asylum seekers registered in Hungary go? It's an address. Congressman Imre Horváth has the floor. Here you go, Congressman.
u2016-05-23-79	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, According to the statistics of the Immigration Office, between January and April this year nearly 13 thousand asylum applications were lodged in Hungary. This is a very surprising number, depending on the fact that, according to the Office's information, on 28 April, a fraction of this number of people stayed at reception centres. Meanwhile, 1321 applications were rejected during the first four months of this year. Either way, math doesn't come out. From the published data, it appears that the authorities do not have any information on the whereabouts of at least 10,000 asylum seekers arriving this year. [[15.20]] Please explain to the Secretary of State: where are the asylum seekers who are not in the institutions or who have not judged their case? Where are these ten thousand people? You have no official knowledge of this, and of course, everyone in this country knows exactly where these people have gone. They are already in the countries of North and Western Europe, where every year tens of thousands of young Hungarians emigrate, because those who start their journey in the hope of a better life will not be able to settle in Hungary. For living reasons, people don't settle in here, they emigrate from here. You boast that the fence and its laws protect not only Hungary, but Europe as a whole. Public media, which has been parched into government propaganda, tells us every hour of the day that the Orbán government is the most dedicated guardian of European borders. For the protection of European borders, you have, oddly enough, just near the Austrian border, in Körmend, created a new reception centre for asylum seekers. With such excellent border surveillance on the Schengen borders, we can hardly be surprised that Austria wants to close its border with Hungary with a fence. In the light of the above, I ask the Secretary of State: do you not feel the contradiction between the overwhelming government propaganda and the facts? Do you really believe that this is the effective protection of the Schengen borders? I'm waiting for your answer.
u2016-05-23-80	Thank you very much, Congressman. I give the floor to Secretary of State Károly Kontra. Here you go.
u2016-05-23-81	Thank you for the floor. Dear Parliament, Mr President, Honourable Congressman, I am trying to pay attention to all opposition contributions, especially those that, based on your experience as a former border guard, I think you have done and, as a professional, I give your opinion in particular. [[Defiance in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] Thank you very much for saying this, but I would like to draw your attention to the fact that, according to the rules in force, asylum detention is only allowed as a last resort by the legislation in force, and here I would like to draw attention to the fact that the European Union has previously launched infringement proceedings against Hungary, because they believe that we have used the asylum detention institution in too many cases. If we had applied the asylum detention facility, this issue would have been no longer valid, but since Hungary is always following EU rules, that is why this situation has arisen, which you have been talking about. And also because the persons concerned are not limited in their freedom of movement at open reception centres, Bicsk, Vámosszabadi or Körmenden, they do, in fact, exclude themselves from the procedure almost 90 percent of the cases and go to an unknown place. Honourable Congressman, Before the security border was built, migrants could cross the borders of Hungary and thus the European Union uncontrolled and massed. We have never claimed that, by building the fence, no migrant will arrive illegally in Hungary in the future - although we would like to do so anyway - our aim was to build a safety barrier and the established transit zones, so that migrants do not flow into Hungary and the European Union uncontrolled and mass. This is the purpose of the T/10526 on the amendment of the laws before the National Assembly necessary to achieve the widespread applicability of the asylum procedure at the border. Our bill number 3, you participated in this debate, and you spoke to him on behalf of his faction. The aim is therefore to ensure that no migrant is allowed to reside illegally in Hungary. If this objective is important to you, I ask you to support this bill. And since I have answered all your questions, questions of an expert, I trust that you are a correct man and will accept my answer. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-05-23-82	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I'll ask Congressman Imre Horváth. [[Imre Horváth: Thank you, Secretary of State...]] whether or not to accept the Secretary of State's reply. [[Imre Horváth:... he positively mentioned my past and my work...]] Congressman, you start when I give you the floor, okay? You have the floor, please. Reset the clock, please.
u2016-05-23-83	Thank you very much, Secretary of State, for your positive mention of my work, and finally in the benches of the opposition, who is no longer a KGB agent here under democratic conditions. I can't accept your answer, no matter how professional you think that answer is. I asked two important questions: where are the ten thousand people, and the last question is whether they recognize the contradiction between propaganda and facts. That's why I can't accept your answer.
u2016-05-23-84	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, The congressman didn't accept the Secretary of State's answer. I'm asking you if you'll accept it. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the State Secretary's reply by 109 votes in favour, 32 against and without abstentions. Dear Parliament, Representative Zoltán Magyar, representative of Jobbik, submitted an interpellation to the Prime Minister's Office:. How long will the bleeding continue? Why would the support be withdrawn from those who have paid the most for the work of the past decades? It's an address. Congressman Zoltán Magyar has the floor. Here you go.
u2016-05-23-85	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Prime Minister! Or Mr. Secretary. [[Defiance.]] Do you know what's in common with the tusks, the stockings, the reeds, the black stork, the yellow and plaid lilies, the Siberian ladies' petals and the worst agricultural production conditions cursed areas? It's exactly that they can't exist without each other. The few crowned areas - which are otherwise unable to produce sufficient value without support - and the orchards and pastures are the last resorts of these rarest domestic species. These areas have been rescued, maintained and supported by farmers who have undertaken this lifestyle under difficult conditions and conditions. This short introduction could also make it clear that the agri-environmental management target programme also served the common good, i.e. they are worthy of support. For 12 years, most of them have received this help to stay on their feet, but, unlike their earlier promises, they have now been nullified by the Fidesz government. My fellow Member, Gergely Farkas, asked the Minister on this very topic last week, but unfortunately he did not receive any concrete answers, but only vague promises, exactly the ones that have already been used to frame the people concerned. On this basis, it would be good for the Minister to answer some of my questions, not because of me, but above all because we have been contacted by a lot of stakeholders on this matter. When and in what way will they compensate those who have been eliminated from the AKG? I am also thinking of the whole 2015 year, not just the losers of the current situation. Who and in what way will compensate farmers who have already done the spring work and have not done it out of hobby or glee, but because they have had serious promises to receive these subsidies? In the beginning, the sowing structure is also influenced by the AKG, and obviously they can't change that in the month of May. Shouldn't you have told them sooner that they weren't even gonna file this application anyway? With this pull, not only the money, but also the bank guarantee, since in many cases the AKG was also suitable for this. Who will then, Minister, take the natural values into account in your farming? Why did they release the hands of the most depopular regions? Who will now cultivate 4-6-8 golden crown areas? Why would he do that? Unfortunately, it can also be seen in many cases that the new winners of the AKG have come from one of your government-wide oligarchs. That is why I have the last question that I would like to ask: Minister, how long will you allow modern-day Döbögik to expand at the expense of Hungarian families? I look forward to your substantive answer. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2016-05-23-86	Thank you very much. I give the floor to Minister János Lázár. Here you go, Minister.
u2016-05-23-87	Thank you very much. Firstly, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of the Government, I would like to inform the Member that the Government takes all questions and all interpellation seriously, even if there are contradictions. If I try to decode what you are saying well, then on the one hand you are asking about grasslands, which are ecologically important for nature conservation, partly because of the flora there, partly because of the bird world there, and on the other hand you have spoken about crop rotation and spring work, which is obviously in contradiction with the fate of the grasslands on your question. I say this as a member of a family who has been engaged in agriculture for three hundred years, and as mayor of an agricultural town, the lawn does not mean crop rotation, and I wonder what kind of spring preparatory work has been done at the lawn, according to your question. [[15.30]] However, I do appreciate your question, Congressman, even if these are riddles in your interpellation. I appreciate your question, and that is why I would like to emphasise, Member, the following. Today, the Hungarian Government provides the highest agricultural support system of all Member States compared to 28 EU countries. Hungarian agriculture is today the most supported agricultural economy in Europe. Nevertheless, you are absolutely right, in disadvantaged areas, where the golden crown is low, where poverty is anyway, where there are sales problems, these families were indeed expecting to receive support either because of the low gold crown quality or because of the grasslands. I think, first of all, that our aim is to ensure that the aid also represents economic productivity. That's why we're going to open a new framework for livestock owners for HUF 25 billion, and that could include those who feed, so there's not only lawn, but also livestock. However, we do not want to maintain an anomaly where a person receives agricultural aid without, by the way, receiving aid after the lawn and not having to do any livestock farming. Let us be clear on this, Congressman. [[It's a rare applause from the benches of the governing parties.]] This is why Hungary had the unblessed condition that the high-gold land had lower traffic value than the grassland that we do not even know who actually applied for, collected them and demanded huge support. We do not want that, because we want it to be good for the village and for the farming families. So we're going to open another application for HUF 25 billion for livestock farmers, Congressman. I would also like to say that everyone cannot win, Congressman. The reason everyone can't win is because the original framework was HUF 158 billion, which we raised to 190 billion, and they applied for it for 500 billion. Every other candidate was able to win. I strongly reject that any political intervention could have taken place, given that objective scoring has been decided. I would also like to tell you that the contest winner of less than 300 hectares is 88 percent of all contest winners. So 88 percent, who won the tender, has a field of less than 300 hectares. The biggest bidder is 1500 hectares, and all the major owners known to the press have been left out of the winning list. So only small or medium-sized holdings were granted, of which, in fact, more than the 2007-13 period, those who farm in fields were won. They've lost 80 percent before, they've only won 20 percent, now they've won 50 percent. We have tried to establish a fair, fair, transparent and accountable system. We are adopting two criticisms: one is criticism of livestock production and the other is criticism of fruit and vegetables production. 15 billion for vegetable-fruit producers and 25 billion for livestock farmers, this is the amount that we can re-open the tender. I ask Congressman to support this. Secretary of State Miklós Kiss seeks out the relevant policy makers in every faction and gives us detailed insight into the winners, and gives us detailed insight into our plans. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2016-05-23-88	Thank you very much, Minister. I ask Mr Zoltán Magyar to accept the ministerial answer. Here you go.
u2016-05-23-89	Unfortunately, I can't accept the answer. However, we would very much look forward to the progress that the Minister has made. We're also looking forward to negotiations. I've been doing this for the last few weeks, and I've had the opportunity to meet a crowd of farmers across the country who are locally living family farmers who are constantly being helped in their communication and then, in practice, they're being pulled down. There are 4 percent winners in the zone, and among those who are eliminated there are many farmers in these few crowned areas, who simply cannot maintain their lives, their quality of life without this support. The European Union has so far done this for a reason, because in these areas neither natural values nor Hungarian families can be maintained, they will be depopulated, Minister, these families and these areas. Believe me, money is not the greatest loss taken from these families, but faith in the future. This must be returned to them as a matter of urgency. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2016-05-23-90	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, The congressman didn't accept the Minister's answer. I'm asking you if you'll accept it. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the ministerial response by 110 votes in favour, 30 votes in favour, with two abstentions. Ladies and gentlemen, Erzsébet Schmuck and R. Benedek Sallai, representatives of the LMP, have submitted an interview to the Foreign Minister for Foreign Affairs and Trade:. What does Sándor Fazekas represent in the US in TTIP case? It's an address. Congressman Sallai R. Benedek has the floor. Here you go, Congressman.
u2016-05-23-91	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, As you have learned, Minister Sándor Fazekas negotiated between 11 and 14 April 2016 in the United States and Canada and was one of the details of his trial to negotiate the Transatlantic Free Trade Agreement. We would very much like to know what kind of consultation has taken place with the Ministry of Foreign Affairs on this matter, because we cannot much appreciate the dual communication that, while your ministry has often talked about the potential benefit of the Hungarian economy, Minister Sándor Fazekas returned home to the Hungarian Times and made a statement that he did everything he could to limit genetically modified seeds and agricultural products. We have established in the interpellation that in our view this TTIP is essentially in the interest of the US and its various large companies. I was pleased to see the statement by Speaker László Kövér, who said that the proposed Transatlantic Free Trade Agreement between the EU and the United States will primarily benefit US and, secondly, multinational companies from some major Member States. So we see that we are in agreement with Mr Speaker, but at the same time we do not really see what Mr Sándor Fazekas has represented in this case, because the information on this seems to be quite contrary. My question to Mr Secretary of State is whether there is a specific answer that the Minister is going to America to help conclude this agreement and try to pave the way for the various US agricultural companies to come to Hungary, or, perhaps, in agreement with President László Kövér, to try to stop the threat he poses to Hungary. Secretary of State, perhaps it was in the press this morning that the paper entitled "TTIP" and the title "European farmers" came out wrong, which clearly conveys the same position as our interpellation, namely that this agreement could pose a very great threat to Hungarian agriculture and the Hungarian countryside, to Hungarian small and medium-sized enterprises. As a result, I would like to know what discussions took place between the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and FM and what Sándor Fazekas represented in the USA and Canada. That's what I'd like you to answer. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2016-05-23-92	Thank you very much, Congressman. The answer will be heard from the Secretary of State, Magyar Levente. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2016-05-23-93	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Honourable Congressman, Dear House, Those Hungarian citizens who follow with professional interest, if any, in the course of free trade negotiations with the US, will certainly be amused by the debate and discussion with a member of the LMP faction in virtually unchanged form and content, which we conduct week after week in the TTIP case. However, I am afraid that you will find this dialogue slowly boring, because on a regular basis, as discussed last week, we will discuss it side by side, and some of the facts that the members of the LMP fact group cannot or do not want to accept. Firstly, I would like to point out, Mr honourable Member, that trade policy is an area of exclusive EU competence within the meaning of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. Accordingly, trade negotiations with third countries and multilaterally multilateralised trade policy negotiations are authorised by the European Commission, on behalf of the Member States. Negotiations on the transatlantic trade and investment partnership will also be conducted and represented exclusively by the European Commission in the negotiation process by the EU Member States. As with the other EU Member States, Hungary is preparing the Hungarian position at the meeting of EU bodies and stands up for the protection of Hungarian interests. Hungary does not negotiate or agree on the content of the agreement in bilateral negotiations with the United States. The terms of the negotiating mandate given by the Council to the Commission make it clear, Mr President, and that is the point of my reply is that the agreement should not lead to a reduction in the level of health, animal and plant health standards, including the issue of genetic freedom. In addition, the European Parliament's recommendations state that the Commission cannot negotiate GMOs with either the US or anyone else. [[15.40]] It is possible - it is possible, honourable Member, because we are talking about a bilateral negotiation, a dialogue between partners - that the US wants to achieve more liberal EU legislation on GMO products, but the Commission cannot do so either because of its negotiating mandate or because of the Hungarian position. In the course of the negotiations, the European Commission has so far strongly represented the EU and Hungary's position to reject GMOs. The Member can also see that there is absolutely no way in which we can prevent the American party from making any argument during the negotiations, nor are we responsible for the statements of the Ambassador of the United States to Hungary. The position of the Hungarian Government on the Free Trade Agreement has remained unchanged since the February 2015 parliamentary debate. On the Hungarian side, we will continue to consider TTIP as an opportunity if we can negotiate a treaty, an agreement, once again: on the basis of a Member State mandate, including a Hungarian mandate, which favours Hungarian economic interests, which is favourable to the standard of living and economic and financial growth of Hungarian people, we will welcome this agreement and we will vote for it, because we expect, honourable Member - and then we will also clarify this issue once and for all - that there will be a so-called mixed agreement, an agreement whose themes fall within the competence of the EU and other subjects fall within the competence of the Member States, and that if this is the end of the negotiation series, then all national Parliaments will have to vote on the whole package, because there will also be issues concerning national competences. Honourable Member, I ask for my reply to be accepted. Thank you so much for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-05-23-94	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I will ask Congressman Sallai R. Benedek if he will accept the State Secretary's answer. Here you go.
u2016-05-23-95	Mr President, I'd be happy to if you'd answered the question at all, but after you didn't answer, I can't accept it. [[Intercoms from the pro-government benches.]] Technically, I asked him what Sándor Fazekas represented, and he gave me a four-minute answer without saying the name of Sándor Fazekas, but he said that in the case of the Commission... [[Intercoms and information in the pro-government benches.]] - how the EU Commission acts. [[Intercoms and information in the pro-government benches. The president's ringing the bell.]] Please, the important sentence that you're going to vote for is said, at least this moment is a straight speech, saying that Fidesz will support you and you will vote for it. [[That's not what he said.]] Then at least we know that it is no longer the EU that we have to fight, but our government, because it is the one who wants to destroy Hungarian agriculture and the Hungarian countryside. [[Intercoms in the pro-government benches.]] Thank you very much. [[Intercoms in the pro-government benches. Applause in the ranks of opposition parties.]]
u2016-05-23-96	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Congressman Nándor Gúr, representative of the MSZP... [[Interventions: Vote! Nándor Gúr: He did not accept it, Mr President.]] I thought... [[Intercoms in the pro-government benches.]] The congressman didn't accept it. [[Németh Szilárd István: No? I can't believe it.]] The Member did not accept the State Secretary's reply, so I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts it. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the State Secretary's reply by 108 votes in favour, 34 votes in favour and no abstentions. Dear Parliament, Member Nándor Gúr, representative of the MSZP, notary of the National Assembly, has submitted an interpellation to the Minister of National Economy:. When does the minimum wage reach the minimum level of living? It's an address. Congressman Nándor Gúr has the floor, please.
u2016-05-23-97	Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[Németh Szilárd István: When you are on the government again!]] Dear Secretary of State, Dear fellow Members, I think you all know, you all know, that on 17 May negotiations were launched on minimum wage and other issues of the 2017 Labour Code, cafeteria and other matters at the permanent consultation forum of the competition sphere and the government. Mihály Varga was also present at this forum, but he said that he did not give any unanswered answers to these questions, which is why I am asking these questions, even concerning cafetia, about the basic rental or how the maximum value of extra-wage allowances is. But I could also do that, in the context of the bill passed a month ago between the walls of Parliament, I would like to press on their promises of opening hours on Sunday, the question of a minimum of 100 per cent wage, or the question of the replacement wage for stand-by jobs, with the intention of amending the strike law, but I do not do this primarily - but, if the Secretary of State mentions it, I would like to thank him - but, as a basic question, I would like to state how the government's idea of the minimum wage for 2017. As far as I know, they are thinking about such a 5.5 percent increase, which means approximately HUF 6 thousand, a gross amount of HUF 6050. If we look at this, then the net of the minimum wage will never actually reach the minimum wage, which will not happen, and you have been ruling for the seventh year, so when will you finally make your promises, that is the fundamental question. We do know that they are worse earners than minimum wage earners, and in 2016, public workers have not received a single penny of wage development. I have five specific questions, and I would like to ask the Secretary of State to give me five specific answers to the five specific questions. So when will the minimum wage net be higher than the minimum wage? That was the first time. Second, when will the burden of minimum wage be reduced? You know, in 2010, this was a total of 32,000 forints, now 69 thousand forints a month, per capita this burden, in Hungarian: the greed of the government is typical. When are you going to reduce this greed? How is the public employment pay for 2017 coming along? In 2017, what changes and growth will occur in relation to the cafeteria system that will benefit people? And with regard to the Labour Code and the Strike Act, when will they finally take steps that are coupled with trade union expectations and employee interests? Mr. President, thank you very much.
u2016-05-23-98	Thank you very much, Congressman. The answer will be given by Secretary of State András Tállai. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2016-05-23-99	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, You know very well that last week Minister Mihály Varga met with the Competition and Government's Permanent Consultation Forum, the main body of the VKF, and discussions took place at this forum on various issues, and indeed, as a current issue, there was the draft budget bill for 2017 on Parliament's agenda, as well as the tax modification package before Parliament, in particular with regard to workers and entrepreneurs. And indeed, the discussion on the minimum wage for 2017 has started at this forum. The minimum wage for 2017 will be preceded by consultations, as has been the case before, on the part of employees, employers and the government. The luckiest solution is that workers and employers can agree on the minimum wage increase and, of course, the government can accept it. Obviously, the government is seeking this compromise, seeking a compromise that meets both employers and, above all, workers. This is our common ambition, to set a minimum wage from which we can make a decent living. Our goal is to further increase the real value of the minimum wage. We are taking various measures to do this, such as reducing personal income tax to 15% in 2016, increasing and constantly increasing the family benefit of two children. We leave some HUF 120 billion a year in the family's pocket by reducing personal income tax to 15 percent, and, as I said, 380-390,000 families are affected by the family tax relief that improves the situation of families by HUF 15 billion a year. Our aim is to operate a tax system, to be able to maintain the burden-bearing capacity of the budget, which reduces the level of income tax on wages and, above all, on personal income tax, thus, to contribute by reducing taxes even more favourable to Hungarian workers and, of course, to those who work for minimum wage. The question of the specific rate of public employment wage next year, I think, is a little too early, and we have to agree on the minimum wage first, and then we can come back to this. In the same way, the question raised by you, the transformation of the cafeteria system, there is no government decision yet. We know that the European Union has unfortunately abolished the Elisabeth voucher. It has ended, but the government wants a solution that benefits workers, people, to further increase their income, whether in cash or in the form of other cafeteria systems. [[15.50]] At this meeting, there was no talk of amending the Labour Code and the Strike Act, but in the near future this issue could be discussed in the negotiations. Concerns about the protection of workers have also been raised. I think the government has given the right answers. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] and addressed the concerns on the part of workers. The negotiations are therefore under way, with a compromise outcome. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-05-23-100	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I will ask Mr Nándor Gúr, the notary of the Parliament, whether he will accept the State Secretary's reply.
u2016-05-23-101	Thank you very much, Mr. President. The Secretary of State involved three out of five questions, but he didn't answer any of them. He dealt with the two, which was about when minimum wages would exceed, when they would exceed the minimum wage in net terms, and he didn't even answer when the government would hold back its own greed and forint people on the money he was collecting as a surplus of contributions. Obviously, your answer cannot be accepted in this sense, but I must add one thought, two. The last five years, six years of experience, have been about stealing people, people with minimum wage, for five years, because they have put less money in their hands while you have raised your gross to a terrifying level, and the government has been the beneficiary of this story. You know, Secretary of State, decent wages should be the basis for those people, those millions, more than two million people who make the minimum living in this country without costing employers a penny more. All you have to do is give up the government's greed. Mr. President, thank you.
u2016-05-23-102	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Congressman didn't accept the Secretary of State's answer. That's why I'm asking if they'll accept it. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the State Secretary's reply by 110 votes in favour, 35 against and without abstentions. Dear Parliament, Congressman Gergely Farkas, Director of the Jobbik Group, has submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Human Resources:. When does the Government realize that the reduction in the number of students above demographic decline is the result of its failed higher education policy? It's an address. Congressman Gergely Farkas has the floor. Here you go.
u2016-05-23-103	Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, A few years ago, the Europe 2020 strategy set itself a target for 40 percent of young Europeans to have a higher education degree by 2020. This decision is also a commitment for Hungary, which therefore entails obligations, but according to EMMI's higher education statistics, the drop in the number of students started in 2006. The facts show that at the beginning of the 2015 academic year more than 11 thousand people enrolled in higher education institutions than in the previous year, not to mention the fall in higher education applications in previous years. Until 140 308 in 2010, only 105 000 applied to higher education in 2015. Obviously, this is accompanied by a reduction in the acquisition of qualifications. These facts give a serious picture of the state of higher education, which is, in an understandable way, embarrassing for the government, so it is not surprising that government communication, which only leads back to demographic change, does not hold up in reality. The fact is that fewer and fewer people are applying to higher education because very many young people do not have the existential opportunity to continue their studies. Many cases show that the cost of self-cost training is unrealisticly high and that we have not yet talked about the necessary housing, study and other expenses. In our view, it is infinitely unfair that the financial situation of parents, the family's wallet, determines whether their child can get into higher education, and that is the characteristic at present. Dear Secretary of State, Increasing the number of higher education attainments is of strategic importance for the country in a number of ways. For the individual, on the one hand, because it makes it significantly easier to find a job in the labour market. The 2011 HCSO report also shows that higher education levels generally improve job opportunities. At the same time, it can be concluded that the labour market situation of low-skilled people is the worst. This is why it is important to increase the number of young people with higher education, while creating high-quality vocational training. Another aspect of the strategic importance of higher education education is in the interests of the nation, since higher education, higher education, is the key to the country's competitiveness and leads to its growth. The narrowing of the possibilities for further education is also a mistake in the sense that, unfortunately, in many cases, this is one of the reasons for the migration of young people. Dear Secretary of State, When do you finally realize that the drop in student numbers is actually the result of the government's failed higher education policy? When will the doors of higher education be wide open to young Hungarians? I look forward to your substantive answer. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2016-05-23-104	Thank you very much, Congressman. The answer will be given by Secretary of State Bence Rétvári. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2016-05-23-105	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Honourable Congressman, Dear House, You started by saying what numbers were the objectives of the Europe 2020 strategy. Well, as you pointed out, the objective was to ensure that 30.3% of those aged 30-34 have a higher education or higher education degree. This was the original objective, and compared to the 30.3 target, this figure was 32,3 per cent by 2013 and not less than 34.1 per cent in 2014. These objectives, to which you have referred, have therefore been achieved by Hungary and we would like to continue to report on similar successes. At the same time, there is another very important indicator in the policy of the government, which I think you know very well, that even though you are admitted to a university, it does not necessarily mean that you are getting your degree, and there was a very high proportion of people who, although starting university, did not get a degree. Therefore, we strive to make these recordings a diploma, so it is always better to compare the number of graduates with the number of graduates and draw conclusions from them. In this respect, the number of admissions is deceptive, and if there is a 30-40 percent difference between the number of admissions and the number of graduates, it shows that something is happening in the institutional system, where the government has had to intervene in recent years. We have abolished the system of framework numbers, thus trying to increase the possibility for young people to have the right number of points, to be able to get into higher education with the right knowledge, to have no limit to getting a degree, to pursue higher education; there is only one condition, to obtain the scores. Here the minimum score requirement is rising year after year, as it was 200 points in 2010, in 2012 it was 240 points, in 2015 it was 280 points. At the same time, however, it is a very positive development that there has always been an increase in the number of graduates and the number of students with a language examination. This means that quality higher education, the chances of someone not only entering the university but also completing it, have all risen. If I look at the numbers and the number of candidates, if you compare the 2013 data with 2015, you will see 105 646 after 95 447 in 2013, and if you look at the 2016 number, it is even higher than 6 thousand people, 111 162 people. There is therefore a steady increase, obviously with different trends, but overall this increase and the number of state scholarships increased, as in 2013 it was 54 thousand, and in 2015 there were 55 800 people who had a state scholarship. Meanwhile, if you look at only one year, in terms of the number of graduates, it means a reduction of 2,900 people from 2015 to 2016, and the number of graduates in that year has decreased from 68 959 to 66 062. So, while it is noticeable, unfortunately, the decline in the number of graduates is measurable, while the number of higher education applicants and the number of state scholarships is increasing. We are just trying not to get any qualifications for these young people, but for useful skills. How to bring higher education closer to young people is why we have set up Community higher education training centres, which provide higher education at locations where there was no university, there was no college, it is much easier to get a higher education degree in small rural settlements and stay there afterwards, not be stuck in the big city. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] In 2015 6 000 people applied for dual training, but in 2016 9500 already applied, which is also a success, and 9 percent of the students are foreign, and this shows their competitiveness as well as the quality of Hungarian higher education. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]] [[16.00]]
u2016-05-23-106	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I will ask Congressman Gergely Farkas if he will accept the State Secretary's answer.
u2016-05-23-107	Thank you very much for the floor. Dear Secretary of State, He talked about a lot of things, not the point. He did not mention that there are tens of thousands of young people with adequate knowledge, and that, in the absence of financial opportunities, in the existential conditions of the family, they cannot get into higher education, pay tuition fees, cost of self-costed training and other burdens that are borne by students in higher education. If these young people were important to you, you would have talked about the fact that after ten years you would finally increase your scholarships, that you would increase your social scholarships, that you would build or fix colleges, because we know what a problem it is for young people to enter colleges in university cities, and that you would not be able to pay the rent; you would have said that you would support the extension of the family allowance for higher education students; you would have talked about them, instead you would have misjudged and explained. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: Gyed extra!]] And these people, these young people, are being let down, and many young people are forced to emigrate. Shame on you, Mr. Secretary. I can't accept that answer. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik. Noise, uproar in the ranks of the governing parties. Dr. Bence Rétvári: Isn't this going to be a little radical?]]
u2016-05-23-108	Congressman, this kind of classification of interpellation is not an issue, so... [[Noise, interruptions.]] Congressman didn't accept the Secretary of State's answer. I am asking you, ladies and gentlemen, if you will accept it. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the State Secretary's reply by 109 votes in favour, 30 votes against and 2 abstentions. [[Move. Noise.]] Fellow Members! Don't leave, there's one more interpellation left. Member István Tukacs, a representative of the MSZP, has submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Human Resources: It's an address. Congressman István Tukacs, please.
u2016-05-23-109	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I realize that this is not the way to increase popularity, that if they are already ready, then I would like to talk for a few more minutes - but I would like to. I would like to ask Mr State Secretary about the health budget. I would like to ask Mr Secretary of State about the health budget because only today has two different figures reached my ears. One question you said, Mr. Secretary, is that the health budget is up by 100 billion, and then we've heard 160 and 167. It doesn't surprise me, Mr. Secretary, because it's not too rare for you to say that we're raising the money of the general practitioners working in primary care by 10 billion, and then it turns out that you have to share it with the patrons and dentists. It is not uncommon to say that we are making a significant increase in wages, but nothing else happens but to include a substitute in a basic wage and to calculate overwork on this basis. You like to talk about resolving the situation in hospitals, while hospital debt is constantly regenerating. They say they want to stay home with the doctors, while all the research says they want to leave, and they want to go somewhere else. Dear Secretary of State, So, my question would be very simple, so if 100, 100, 160, 160, 167, 167, tell me about the items in the healing-preventive register that have grown, and then let's count a little together, because I think they have indicated extra money in two places where the house was burned, one was public education, and the other was health care. In public education, the house was burned for the reasons known, because people were already on the street because of the situation it was in, and because of health care, the patients are recovering under unfair conditions and the doctors and nurses are working under unfair conditions. Then when I ask about the amount, I ask about it because otherwise they always say they're in the middle of a pay trial. Then how is the wage payment in the budget that you're discussing right now? What does it contain? I wonder what you're up to. I should point out that, open parentheses, the wage increase would certainly not have been the one negotiated by the advocacy workers and nurses. They'll be thanking them for the 20% wage improvement instead of the 50 they demanded, but that should be their problem - parentheses closed. Secretary of State, I will take a pen and a paper, and I will be interested to hear what has increased in health care, because after a long research, not only we, but those who are investigating the health budget, will not even know its mark or its signs. Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President.
u2016-05-23-110	Thank you very much, Congressman. The answer will be given by Secretary of State Bence Rétvári. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2016-05-23-111	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, I believe that a government actor can never get a nicer interrogation from an opposition representative than the increase in the health budget by 100 billion, 140 or 160 billion. This has not always been the case in the history of Hungarian parliamentarism, because there has been a time when health resources have gone a long way, and the opposition has not asked how much they are growing, but how much the health budget is falling. Allow me to give you one example of how the budget for the Health Insurance Fund changed in your time between 2006 and 2010: from 1691 billion to 1424 billion. I hope you've put these on that paper too, honourable Member. [[István Tukacs: Healer!]] How the budgets voted on by themselves have brought health spending down and down. Then, after 2010, we put these amounts back and raised them not only to the level of 1691 from 1424 but also next year will be the historic year when the amount of the E Fund will exceed HUF 2000 billion from such a health financing perspective. Overall, this was a 27 percent increase between 2010 and 2016, and this year adds a 31 percent increase in the health fund in our governance period. You've changed that with the opposite omen. I would also like to list to you what items are in this, or have been in it in previous years, and I think you know that we have already spent HUF 12.2 billion or HUF 153 billion on hospital debt reduction to reduce waiting lists. The number you asked me about at the end of your interpellation is the budget bill, I'll help you, the T/1037. The total amount of HUF 167 billion that you asked as an additional source, which represents an increase, surplus and increase for health care in the following year compared to this year. I think this is also a number for which you do not often find examples during the period of democratic budget acceptance in Hungary for the last 26 years. And that's gonna get you a lot of things. One of the items most at the centre of interest is obviously the issue of health wages, and every week, trade unions, the Medical Chamber, representatives of the Hospital Association and government sit down with each other, and they progress from week to week in these wage negotiations, and it will probably be about 100 billion forints, in which they will agree at the end that the nurses and doctors will be able to take more home in the coming year than this year. We hope that you will reach an agreement as soon as possible, and then we will be able to announce the exact extent of these. But it is also important that, if you look at the budget for next year, you will receive more than HUF 10 billion in general medical care, protective care and dental care, HUF 1 billion more in home care, HUF 4.5 billion more in public health development, HUF 500 million more in general health care, and HUF 500 million more in general health care. The additional expenditure on medical combined care is HUF 25.9 billion, there will be HUF 500 million more in laboratory care next year, 4.8 billion more in medical aids, HUF 2 billion more in support of residents, and this will be included in general nursing and medical wage increases. I believe that this is an additional resource that has not been typical of Hungary in previous years. So please, honourable Member, if you agree that there is an extra resource in health care and you are pleased that it will be more than 100 billion forints that we can provide, then accept my answer if you do not agree with this, then do not accept my answer. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-05-23-112	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I will ask Mr István Tukacs if he will accept the State Secretary's reply. Here you go, Congressman.
u2016-05-23-113	Sly, sly, Mr. Secretary of State, I see that this is the peak of demagogy, that if you agree with it, you will accept it if you don't, you won't. I asked you to name the items of the 100 billion. You just gave me a sequence of numbers. It's nowhere near what we're talking about. To add up, I hope we can still both of us, so try to add up to the end of what you've said. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: You are stronger in extraction!]] The other, Secretary of State, for which I cannot accept your answer, is that although I am the one avoiding reprimanding the President in order to use words that do not fit...
u2016-05-23-114	Good.
u2016-05-23-115	...but you don't think your fellow Members are stupid. [[16.10]] The E-File is not the healing-preventive cash register, and you've been dragging various items in it for years, so that, if possible, you can't compare it to the previous years. Mr. Secretary, I asked you a very simple question: where are the hundred per item? What you told me isn't. From now on, Mr President, I am very sorry, but I cannot accept the answer. Thank you very much.
u2016-05-23-116	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, The congressman didn't accept the Secretary of State's answer. I'm asking you if you'll accept it. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the State Secretary's reply by 101 votes in favour, 34 against and without abstentions. I am now ordering a two-minute technical break so that all our fellow Members who leave the Chamber because of their urgent duties can do so without delay. [[A short break, some of the congressmen are leaving the meeting room.]] We'll get back to work. Ladies and gentlemen, There will be immediate questions. Member Gergely Bárándy, representative of the MSZP, wants to ask the President of the National Bank of Hungary an immediate question:. Mr President has appointed Vice-President Márton Nagy as a response to an urgent public task. I respectfully ask the Member whether he accepts the person who is responding, or whether he is personally asking the President for an answer.
u2016-05-23-117	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Since Mr. Vice President's cousins didn't steal the billions from the MNB foundations, I'd like to wait for Mr. President. Thank you.
u2016-05-23-118	Thank you very much, Congressman. Mr President will have to answer at the hour of the third immediate question. Dear Parliament, Member Sándor Burány, representative of the MSZP, wants to ask the President of the National Bank of Hungary an immediate question: "Bluff, bluff, bluff." Mr President has appointed Vice-President Márton Nagy as a response to an urgent public task. I respectfully ask the Member whether he accepts or waits for the President.
u2016-05-23-119	I'll take it.
u2016-05-23-120	You'll take it, thank you very much. Congressman Sándor Burány has the floor, please.
u2016-05-23-121	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Well, let's get on with it, Mr. Vice President. I would like to ask you, too, if György Matolcsy was no longer able to make it fair to you today, that the foundations of the Hungarian National Bank spent it without public procurement procedures, they wasted the public money for billions, despite the fact that, by the way, this is required by law at such thresholds. Do you consider it fair, Mr Vice President, that György Matolcsy, through the foundations, has filled his cousin Tamás Szemerey's Growth Bank with massive billions? Do you consider it fair, Mr Vice President, that this bank has then repaid these public funds, such as the bank's loan of HUF 405 million to the central bank's son for buying furniture? Do you consider it fair, Mr Vice President, that the fact that István Kry, who is also related to Ádám Matolcsy and Tamás Szemerey, was given HUF 500 million for media purchases? Do you consider it fair, Mr Vice President, that Tamás Szemerey, as bank president, has provided Tamás Szemerey with several billion forints of credit through his interests? Mr. Vice President, We know your previous practice, and the President himself has tried to stand up to you in the last week's session. Now it's your turn. I want you to stop talking to him and answer the simple question: do you consider all these to be fair? I'm waiting for your answer.
u2016-05-23-122	Thank you very much, Congressman. I give the floor to Vice President Martin the Great. Here you go, Mr. Vice President.
u2016-05-23-123	Thank you very much. Honourable Members, I think that, in response to the first part of his proposal, it has been said several times that the decision of the Constitutional Court has resulted in a completely new situation, let us say that clean water has been added to the glass, and therefore all the information about the functioning of the foundations has been published and published, and therefore transparency is not a question but a necessary decision. [[Dr. Gergely Bárándy: That's where the trouble is!]] As far as public procurement is concerned, I also think that, after the Constitutional Court's decision, the picture has become very clear, the foundations have proposed the question of public procurement to the public authorities, and the foundations believe, on the basis of their information, that they will act along this line in the future. As far as individual transactions are concerned, I believe that the issues raised by you cover both the functioning of the foundations and the operation of the banks. In relation to the growth credit programme, which is partly linked to me, because at the end of 2013 I was the one who operated after the President's decision and after the decision of the Monetary Council put this programme together, we met with a lot of credit agreements, more than 30,000 companies received money in connection with the growth credit programme. In no case have we asked how the banks decided to pay out the growth loan scheme, which is regulated by the product information. The product information can be found on the National Bank's website. If the criteria in it are met, in this case, I think that it complies with the legal requirements. Thank you very much.
u2016-05-23-124	Thank you very much. A one-minute rejoinder from Congressman Sándor Burány. Here you go.
u2016-05-23-125	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr. Vice President, Well, I asked you a clear question, and I asked you if you thought these procedures were fair. For example, the President of the Central Bank will fill his cousin's bank with public funds through a foundation, and then this cousin bank will lend his own son over 400 million forints. I didn't ask you what your business as vice president is, but whether you think it's fair. It is not clear to me whether you did not understand my question or whether you did not quite understand the concept of the word "depreciation". But then, please answer one more question for the next minute, which you have at your disposal. Do you consider it fair that Tamás Szemerey has purchased, in practice, either through stromants or personally, media empires to the extent that we may have experienced? The editor-in-chief, former editor-in-chief of Versus and former journalists all confirmed that Tamás Szemerey was practically the owner. Do you consider this fair? That's my simple question.
u2016-05-23-126	Thank you very much, Congressman. A two-minute rejoinder is also due to Mr. Vice President. Here you go.
u2016-05-23-127	Thank you very much. On the one hand, I believe that the concept of legality is much more important here, and that legality will be examined by the SAO on the one hand, and by the institutions to which it is intended. [[Dr. Gergely Bárándy: That's an answer!]] As regards the answer to your other question, I apologize, I would like to deal with the affairs of the National Bank. [[Dr. István Józsa: That's it!]] The National Bank is doing its job and doing its job, and it also shows that a significant part of its programmes contributed to Fitch's credit clearance of the country's debt. I would like to highlight two of the six points. [[Dr. Gergely Bárándy: This is the genre when you have to answer questions.]] One is the success of the self-financing programme and the other is the HUFing of foreign currency loans. [[16.20]] If you ask me: I like to do my own tasks, and this is to increase the success of the National Bank and to do the job. Thank you very much.
u2016-05-23-128	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Parliament, Congressman János Volner, representative of Jobbik, would like to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question:, who is Árpád Habony? It's an address. The Prime Minister has appointed Minister János Lázár to respond to his urgent public mission. I respectfully ask you whether you will accept the person of the response or wait for the Prime Minister to answer your question.
u2016-05-23-129	Mr. President, I'd like to wait for the Prime Minister. Thank you very much.
u2016-05-23-130	Thank you very much. I would like to inform you, Member, and the House, that the Prime Minister must answer at the hour of the next immediate questions. Dear Parliament, Congressman György Szilágyi, representative of Jobbik, wishes to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question: "How long will you share with the Fidesz politicians?" It's an address. The Prime Minister has appointed Minister János Lázár to respond to his urgent public mission. I respectfully ask you whether you will accept the person of the response or wait for the Prime Minister to answer your question.
u2016-05-23-131	Mr. President. I would like to wait for Prime Minister, because only one of the parties is present in this Chamber, and I would like to ask the Prime Minister. Thank you very much.
u2016-05-23-132	Thank you very much, Congressman. Prime Minister will have to answer at the hour of the third immediate question. Dear Parliament, Mr.Előd Novak, the representative of Jobbik, wants to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question:. Why did Zoltán Illés tell Zoltán that environmental protection is left-wing issue, the issue of rich countries, hinders economic development, we cannot spend on this? It's an address. The Prime Minister has appointed Minister János Lázár to respond to his urgent public mission. I respectfully ask you whether you will accept the person of the response or wait for the Prime Minister to answer your question.
u2016-05-23-133	Thank you, Mr President, but I am a patient type, I will wait for Prime Minister and give the floor to my dearest fellow Member.
u2016-05-23-134	Thank you very much, Congressman. I would like to inform the House that the Prime Minister must answer at the hour of the third immediate question. And I'll inform you that you don't have to give me the floor - so there won't be any family trouble. [[Defiance.]] - 'Cause the House Rule also states that the next righty-goody congressman is coming after you. Although I don't think it's very good that the wife is in second place, but tastes and slaps are different. Dear Parliament, Congresswoman Dóra Dúró, representative of Jobbik, would like to ask the Minister of Human Resources an immediate question, 'Doesn't the law have to defend morals as well? It's an address. Mr. Minister has appointed Mr. Bence Rétvári as Secretary of State to respond to an urgent public task. Congresswoman tells me that she accepts the person who is responding. Congresswoman, you have the floor.
u2016-05-23-135	[[In a loudly hoarse voice:]] Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, After the Kiss László case came to light, Jobbik was the only party demanding the resignation of the Swimming Team as a federal captain. But I think that, in addition to his personality, this issue raises social questions. One of these issues is the question of the withdrawal of state medals. Imagine, there has already been a person who initiated this with Prime Minister Viktor Orbán in the past, in 2011, Paul Schmitt suggested that if someone became unworthy of a state medal, they could withdraw it from it. Prime Minister accepted this initiative, and in autumn 2011, Péter Szijjártó announced, even as spokesperson of the Prime Minister, that after a government decision it would be Zsolt Semjén who would prepare the legal background for this. I ask Mr Secretary of State what do you know about this matter after five years, whether Zsolt Semjén has managed to prepare a proposal allowing the withdrawal of state medals, because we have seen nothing of it. On this matter, it is important to say that state medals should not be allowed to become a plaything for politics, which is why Jobbik initiated a five-party consultation on this issue. The other is the question of the sex offender database. Jobbik also initiated a public database of those who had committed such a crime at some point, because parents have the right to know whether people who have committed such a crime, whether in swimming pools or in other frameworks, have committed such a crime. The Polish Parliament has recently allowed this database to be completed and made public. I ask Mr Secretary of State whether the Hungarian Government is planning such steps and whether they support the amendment of Jobbik's basic law to this effect. I look forward to your substantive answer. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2016-05-23-136	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. The answer will be given by Secretary of State Bence Rétvári. Here you go.
u2016-05-23-137	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Dear House, In wishing to get better, I can inform you about your question, that although I am indeed in a very close working relationship with Zsolt Semjén, I cannot tell you exactly what legislative proposals or amendments to regulations he has developed over the last five years. And since the title of your question did not refer to this, I suggest that we return to this later. At the same time, it is very important what you have raised as a question about the situation and vulnerability of children, namely to avoid contact with people who care for them, who are raising them, caring for them, and who have previously committed sexual crimes to harm children. You have been here in Parliament for the last six years, and you should have seen the amendments to the criminal law that we have already made, precisely to protect children. For example, in the moral certificates, we have already stated that if a person commits a crime to harm a minor, precisely in order to be visible, this was not an ordinary case of that crime, but a child. We have made it possible for a person who has committed a sexual offence against children to be prohibited from employment, in Hungarian, never again to come near children who have taken advantage of this situation and committed such a crime against a child. We introduced in the new strict criminal code that endangering the emotional development of a minor is also a felony. In the event of a criminal offence against a minor, the statute of limitations has also been completely changed. We said that if, let's say, a sexual offence is committed against a minor, which can be punished more than five years old, it will never end, and if it can be punished less than five years old, the limitation period will start from the age of 18 and the date of birth of the child. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] For example, if a victim is 12 to 13 years of age, he is still at his disposal to file a complaint. I'll continue from here for the rest of my minute.
u2016-05-23-138	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. A one-minute rejoinder from Congresswoman Dóra Dúró. Here you go.
u2016-05-23-139	Thank you, Mr. President. I hope, Mr Secretary, that you will not continue from here, but answer my questions. Zsolt Semjén did not have enough five years to draft a bill to settle this issue. That's amazing, Mr. Secretary. But not only did he fail, but the entire government did not do anything to make it possible. The Jobbik initiated this. Otherwise, we would have referred the government's powers in our bill to the conditions under which the state's award should be withdrawn, but even this was not supported by the pro-government representatives in the Commission's debate. You have also put him in the municipal law, Mr Secretary of State, that if a municipal representative becomes unworthy of his office, he will lose his mandate, for example if he is sentenced to imprisonment by the court. Then why is that not a sufficient reason for a state medal? I'm asking you, Mr. Secretary, to talk about this. Admitting the results listed above, please respond to what I am asking you. Thank you. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2016-05-23-140	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. A one-minute rejoinder is for Secretary of State Bence Rétvári.
u2016-05-23-141	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Dear House, It seems that in my reply, I have been able to give you something new, and I am pleased that you acknowledge the government's actions in these areas. We have tried, both here in Parliament and at government regulation level, to deal with these specific types of crime. I think you know very well that one of the biggest problems here is that these crimes don't come out. In order to improve the conditions of reconnaissance, we have established a separate hearing room at every county police station where the victims of these crimes, usually under minors, are able to tell what they had to experience under unusual police conditions, so that once again this trauma is not to be told in difficult circumstances, in an official room, in a uniformed police station, but in a child's room, where only two persons are present, the others can follow through a glass wall, precisely to make it easier to detect them, and throughout the entire criminal proceedings, we have tried to favour victims and children everywhere in the place of interrogation. Thank you very much.
u2016-05-23-142	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Congressman Sallai R. Benedek, representative of the LMP, wishes to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question: "Do you want the government to review the privatisation of the last 25 years? It's an address. The Prime Minister has appointed Minister János Lázár to respond to an urgent public task. I respectfully ask the Member whether he accepts the person of the responding party or waits for the Prime Minister to be present with the answer to his question. Here you go. [[16.30]]
u2016-05-23-143	Thank you for the opportunity, Mr. President. Then I'd like to wait for the Prime Minister's presence, if I may. Thank you very much.
u2016-05-23-144	Thank you very much. Prime Minister will have to answer at the hour of the third immediate question, and please do not sit down, because you are next. Congressman Sallai R. Benedek, representative of the LMP, wants to ask the Minister of the Prime Minister's Office an immediate question: what is the government's action on the Kehi report? It's an address. Congressman Sallai R. Benedek has the floor. Here you go.
u2016-05-23-145	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Minister, Although you are not the Minister of Agriculture, I do not need to explain the difference between protected areas and the land in NFA, but I will say, just to be safe, that I am talking about national park land, which is not affected by land privatisation, but by the rental system. The Government Audit Office, which is under your supervision, carried out an inspection of the Prime Minister's order, stating the irregularities which have recently been made public. As you probably know, in 140 of the 172 applications Kehi found false data, 34 of the winning applications had such a difference that fraud had an incredible impact on the outcome of the full decision. In 98 of the 428 estates examined, i.e. only a part of the fields issued by the tender, almost a quarter of them were decided by the management plan, so subjective criteria decided to win the tender. And they could also win the treatment of protected areas where extensive grazing should be carried out, where the native Hungarian breed was 50 white Hungarian ducks, which are known not to be very suitable for this type of treatment. In many cases, honest Hungarian farmers who have properly confessed to their livestock have been given a false background and their data has been correctly disclosed. And because of that, because they didn't live with such scams, they were put in the background, and they couldn't win. The Kehi report points to this whole process. However, I would like to ask, with respect, Minister, why this Kehi report has not been extended. If there were applications for ten national parks and we can see how high these numbers are for irregularities, why not for ten national parks the whole application system is reviewed. In fact, at Hortobágy National Park, why doesn't it cover all the rest? What measure will be taken to ensure that practically the whole public knows how irregular the tendering system has been? Is there any further action to be taken in this regard? I'd be honored to hear your answer. Thank you very much. [[It's a rare applause in the lines of the LMP.]]
u2016-05-23-146	Thank you very much, Congressman. The answer, as I have already said, will be given by Minister János Lázár. Here you go, Minister.
u2016-05-23-147	In response in particular, my fellow Member, this House, I would like to point out that on 29 July 2014, the Minister for Agriculture amended its regulation laying down the rules of procedure for the renting of areas classified as nature conservation. Kehi had concrete comments on the examination of the more than 420 successful tenders. Here was a tender which was declared invalid on the basis of this, and another received the area and had a general comment. As I understand it, you are asking why other national parks do not enforce the proposals in the Kehi study. As far as I know, the Minister of Agriculture has harmonised the rules of procedure on the basis of the aforementioned Minister of Agriculture Regulation, and has unified the decision-making mechanism, which makes this issue much more transparent. I've got two comments for this one. One of them, my honourable fellow Member, is that, in the case of open auctions, such misunderstandings are entirely impossible, given the fact that 180,000 hectares have been sold at open auctions. There are many criticisms by the government about the implementation of sales, but none about the conduct of sales, as this is done in the open auction of the entire public. This does not mean that nature reserves should also be auctioned, but I think that instead of the land lease competition, owners have a better place in their hands than, where appropriate, the land leased by the State or concluded by a lease contract. My second point is that I look forward to seeing how much interest will be interested now that the support of certain grasslands in the AKG is below the previous level, as we have heard here in the previous interpellation. Was it support or land? Did they want to work, or did they want to put away the support? This is gonna come out. [[It's a rare round of applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-05-23-148	Thank you very much, Minister. A one-minute rejoinder from Congressman Sallai R. Benedict. Here you go.
u2016-05-23-149	Thank you very much for your reply, Minister. During today, he said that his family has been a three hundred - year - old family: family members should be asked whether they are farming for support or because it is their way of life. Those who have now slipped outside these support systems and can no longer feed, a number of who may have seen it on television, who cry to tell their loss that they cannot be profitable otherwise, because grazing livestock is completely loss-making. Just to respond to that. The problem is that the Minister, i.e. the amendment of the Minister of FM, is practically rainy, since after a closed tendering system, he has not reviewed applications that have so been unduly missed from the aid scheme. My clear point in my question is that it would be justified to extend this control, which can be done from your authority. It would mean a full public opinion on the results of the tender and the Kehi report, and it would be a relief for Hungarian society to know what happened in the tender system. A national park manager has already failed this system, as I believe you know. The question is how all the others acted. Thank you very much.
u2016-05-23-150	Thank you very much, Congressman. In return, Minister János Lázár has the floor.
u2016-05-23-151	Ladies and gentlemen, As far as farming is concerned, there were no EU aids before 2004 and people were farming in these grasslands. Government and legislation can help farmers the most if they ensure the conditions for marketing farming so that they can be sold from livestock. There is no need to compensate for the work or the conditions of sale because a life cannot be based on support. The person who bases his life on the support of the European Union, I think, bases it on a pretty strong quagmire. We should help those working in agriculture and working by providing them with certain buy-in conditions. So buying up should be guaranteed, sales should be guaranteed, we should be involved in the whole supply chain. I quote from my head, Congressman, that you conducted the Kehi investigation at Hortobágy because there were criminal proceedings elsewhere. In many cases, the allegations relating to the conclusion of national park land lease contracts have not been confirmed. [[It's a rare round of applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-05-23-152	Thank you very much, Minister. Dear Parliament, Mr János Pócs, representative of Fidesz [[There's a lot of noise in the opposition benches.]] he wishes to ask the Minister of Agriculture an immediate question: "Green Business - LMP and Rural Development." Mr. Minister has appointed Mr. István Nagy Secretary of State to respond to his urgent public mission. I respectfully ask the Member if he accepts the person who is responding. [[For signal:]] Congressman says he'll take it. Congressman János Pócs has the floor. Here you go, Congressman.
u2016-05-23-153	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, In my immediate question last week, I suggested that the Túrkevei mill linked to LMP collapsed. The Nimfea Nature Conservation Association, close to Congressman Róbert Benedek Sallai, renewed the windmill in Túrkeve with HUF 20 million of tender money by collapsing. [[Sallai R. Benedek from the bench behind the congressman shows a card: What he says is not the truth.]] The MVH has filed a criminal report, and we hope that it will be revealed as soon as possible where the money was lost by Mr. Sallai. [[The majority of opposition representatives applaud. Mihály Varga: Order him to order!]] It is interesting to see Mr. Sallai's reaction to the matter last week. That's why the windmill in Turkeve doesn't spin...
u2016-05-23-154	Just a minute, Congressman. Congressman Sallai Benedek, I am obliged to warn you in two respects in accordance with the regulations of the House. On the one hand, by using a forbidden illustration, by not declaring it beforehand, and, on the other hand, because it is concerned, you will have the opportunity to speak at the end of it as a personal concern. [[There's a lot of noise in the opposition benches.]] I'm sure you'll get it. The third thing is that he took a seat there. You're not really supposed to be there. So, with all due respect, I'd like to ask you to return to your seat. I'm warning you about what's been said. Now, I'm gonna need a time-out from here. Congressman János Pócs has the floor. Here you go, Congressman.
u2016-05-23-155	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Thank you so much for your backup. You really have nothing to do with this faction, Mr Róbert Sallai, otherwise I do not mind. [[Sallai R. Benedek presents new inscriptions one after another behind János Pócs's back. Among other things, he does not tell the truth many times. I mean, he's lying. You're lying to me right now.]] Dear Secretary of State, It is interesting to see how Congressman Robert Sallai reacted to this case last week. He said the reason the windmill in Turkeve doesn't spin is because it doesn't have a wheel on it. We've already learned how LMP with these blunders is used to defusing responsibility. Congressman Sallai did not reply where the HUF 20 million tender money was spent. Why did the windmill in Turkeve collapse? [[16.40]] It is sad to see that Congressman Sallai, the May Other, is a politician of the Committee on Politics and Sustainable Development, who, along with his fellow LMP parties, likes to lecture the government [[Sallai R. Benedek presents the paper with the following inscription:]] Once again, he is involved in a case that shows that unfair individual gain is more important to him than the public interest. The development of green business is more important to him than rural development. [[Sallai R. Benedek shows the signs with the following inscription: -Now he's clearly lying!--He doesn't tell the truth a lot of times, that is, he's lying.--]] Congressman Sallai is trying to smear the case and distract attention, try to shift responsibility to the municipality. [[István Apáti intervenes several times.]] On the other hand, according to recent press reports, the MVH representative of his colleagues arriving for on-the-spot inspection questioned the legal basis for the audit. Obviously, he abused his political power against the government official. Dear Secretary of State, The question is: what steps have been taken in this case? Who is responsible for that story? I'm looking forward to your reply. [[Applause in the pro-government benches. Noise, interruptions.]]
u2016-05-23-156	Thank you very much, Congressman. Fellow Members! Before I give the floor to Secretary of State István Nagy, I find that Mr Sallai R. Benedek has repeatedly violated the relevant point of the Parliamentary Act on Illumination. [[Constant interruptions from Jobbik's benches.]] I would like to inform you that I will inform the House Committee and the President about this by initiating the appropriate procedure. [[Erzsébet Schmuck: Congressman Pócs showed me last time!]] Congresswoman, would you like me to give you a similar procedure? [[It's a lot of noise. Dr. Gergely Bárándy: Against János Pócs! István Apáti constantly intervenes.]] Congresswoman and Lords! Mr. Abbot Congressman. [[István Apáti: We'll throw it together!]] Mr. Abbot Congressman. Mr. Abbot Congressman. Don't throw anything together, 'cause I'm gonna lock you out of the seat. You can put that together. [[Fidesz benches. János Lázár: Let's get to the point.]] I give the floor to Secretary of State István Nagy, please.
u2016-05-23-157	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, My dear fellow Member, "Where did you wait, now a pile of stones," said the whole matter in a sentence, but there is a very sharp question: who or what is responsible for it? Allow me to begin with the latest news of the most unfortunate case. As reported in the press, MVH staff held an extraordinary on-site inspection on May 18 with the aim of assessing the current situation of the partly renovated but now collapsed windmill. They would have done their job, but Sallai R. Benedek, the LMP Member of Parliament, questioned the office's colleague on the spot on the phone on behalf of the Nimfea Nature Conservation Association, asking the legal basis for the inspection. As you said, he tried to abuse the political power of my fellow Member against the government official who performed his duties. This behavior is unacceptable, but I can assure you it will not prevent the investigation. What really happened? Let's see the facts so far. Nimfea decided to renovate the valuable mill, which was taken over from the municipality of Túrkeve for asset management. So far, everything would be fine; the mill would indeed have been a value to be preserved, more precisely, in need of renovation. It can be concluded from the MVH's investigation so far that, on the basis of the construction documentation submitted by the aid application, Nimfea also undertook to renovate the building externally. In 2009, the association would have had the opportunity to apply for aid for external renovation at a 100% aid intensity of up to HUF 53 million. In fact, even in December of the same year, another period of support is the promotion of open tourism activities, but they did not take advantage of the possibility, they concentrated only on internal renovation, so the renovation has not been completed. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] We'll keep going. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-05-23-158	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. A one-minute rejoinder from Congressman János Pócs, please.
u2016-05-23-159	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. This story is a great lesson. This is indeed the rural policy of the LMP, which is about stretching, blocking checks. Congressman Robert Sallai keeps campaigning in his diary. At present, the tree is not about what happened to the windmill in Túrkeve, but it is about the fact that it has recently been in the pothole. Like he said, he only did that for half an hour, partly because the cameramen were there, and then he realized that his hands had become cheery. Dear Secretary of State, I suggest that in the allocation of tender money, it should be taken into account that this story is dangerous. [[Sallai R. Benedek intervenes several times.]] When a person deals with asphalting, because, well, the example shows that he who has a pricky hand is stuck to him. Thank you, Mr. Secretary. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-05-23-160	Thank you very much. A one-minute rejoinder from the Secretary of State, please.
u2016-05-23-161	Thank you very much. They won the tenders in order to encourage tourism activities, and this raises questions about how they could receive guests and visitors in a semi-refurbished and life-threatening building. Or did the visitor center just work for announcement? Or have they failed to meet the original recovery goal of the renovation? I think it is all a question to which we need to find an appropriate answer in the coming period, and when these appropriate answers are available, it is only possible to put a calm end to this matter. And I think it's in everyone's best interest to find the right answers to these questions. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-05-23-162	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Congresswoman Anita Heringes, representative of the MSZP, wants to ask the Minister for National Development an immediate question:. Why are we not moving towards a solution? It's an address. The Minister has appointed Mr László Tasó Secretary of State to respond to an urgent public task. I respectfully ask the congresswoman if she accepts the person who is responding. [[For signal:]] The congresswoman indicates that she accepts the person who is responding. Congresswoman Anita Beringes has the floor, please.
u2016-05-23-163	Thank you very much for the floor. Dear Secretary of State, A 38-year-old Uber driver mother asked you questions and thoughts in a letter, let me share them with you now. See if you can convince you that it is not forbidden, but that this area must also be regulated precisely. Uber drivers are entrepreneurs, taxpayers. They can flexibly insert the work and the child with the bourgeoising. The Uberes women's drivers - 180 women working in this area - have been given flexible jobs that are now in jeopardy, even though they can create financial security for their families. They pay taxes after work, have exams, do their best to work safely and in accordance with the rules. That's something Uber keeps an eye on. In all cases, licences shall be issued by the National Transport Authority. For them, women, mothers, Uber gave them the opportunity to study, to care for their families, to always get to kindergarten, school or care for their sick parents on time for their children. They write that they are now labeled as frauds and tax evasions. Uberating has created a job opportunity for a narrow layer that cannot - or has little chance - return to the world of work, such as women and mothers. The government and you, Minister and Secretary of State, have an incredible responsibility. It is not for each other to tease the taxi and Uber driver society and users, but to create a system of rules that does not make any of the parties impossible. Neither party wants to ban the other. Banning can't be a solution. They want clear, transparent, operational rules. Let's just say that the current legislation is inadequate to address the problem. I would like to ask that at a table with Uber, taxi drivers and other interest representatives, in cooperation with the government, we develop a set of rules where everyone can continue to work. Dear Secretary of State, Do you see an opportunity for that?
u2016-05-23-164	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. I give the floor to Secretary of State László Tasó. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2016-05-23-165	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear Congresswoman, The Government of Hungary is on the side of regular and tax-paying taxi drivers. By ignoring the personal and technical requirements, the Hungarian government does not want to give room to businesses benefiting from unauthorized benefits. [[Noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] Under Hungarian law, Uber operates an independent dispatch service without permission. In contrast to the current domestic regulations - Uber claims otherwise, but - it carries out passenger transport activities, intersecting computer devices, and what is important is that for consideration. The government does not wish to stand in the way of technical progress, which is why the Government decree also includes the possibility of continuing and providing dispatch services by intervening IT tools. A large proportion of legal taxi operators already have an online app, which is also available to the entire public. The current legislation and the proposal submitted aim to create a market environment in which everyone has a level playing field, there is no loophole, and we apply appropriate dissuasive sanctions to illegal activity. [[16.50]] We would like to create an opportunity for development to continue, but of course we ask everyone who carries out activities in Hungary to do so according to the rules available, to pay taxes in Hungarian for it, as well as Uber. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2016-05-23-166	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Congresswoman Anita Heringes has the floor for a one-minute rejoinder. Here you go.
u2016-05-23-167	We believe that both the government and the whole Parliament must be on the side of decent taxi drivers, ubers and consumers. You don't have to stand on one side, you have to represent everyone. I think we need to establish a regulation where everyone can work decently, taxed, all the exams, and follow all the rules. Rules should be established to make each system operational. That's why I'm asking you to think about it, sit down with the Uberes, sit down with the taxi drivers, the lobbyists, listen to the way you're making progress, because I think you have something to talk about. You created this regulation, which now renders taxi drivers impossible, you have one task: to withdraw and create a normal, functional regulation. Thank you very much.
u2016-05-23-168	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. A one-minute rejoinder also belongs to Secretary of State László Tasó. Here you go.
u2016-05-23-169	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and The fact is that the Hungarian government must stand on one side, and on the side of taxpayers. [[Interviews from the ranks of the MSZP: Taxation!]] Naturally, he who pays taxes and carries out the activities is in favour of the government, and there he will always stand. Once again, there is no barrier to development, there is no barrier to the development of infocommunication activities, there is no such thing at all. The regulation is about ensuring a level playing field for everyone. A taxi driver must invest at least 400-500 thousand forints in order to start the activity at all. For example, the safety of a passenger and the security of property for a traveller who does not have to take such guarantees, for example, for the means necessary for his activity, must be examined. There is a requirement that must be kept from the point of view of safety in all respects. Once again, the government needs to be clearly on the same side as the tax-paying, regular taxi drivers. That's what happens. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2016-05-23-170	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Congressman Gergely Kulcsár, representative of Jobbik, wants to ask the Prime Minister of the Prime Minister's Office an immediate question: why has he been silent for months about the Fidesz corruption case in Balmazújváros, Minister? It's an address. Congressman Gergely Kulcsár has the floor. Here you go.
u2016-05-23-171	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Minister, This story has been going on since the end of 2013, on which I have spoken several times between the walls of the House. At the time, in December 2013, it was discovered that the D.A.'s office was investigating a suspicion of misdemeanor abuse and bribery in Balmasújváros. István Tiba, one of the main characters in the case, who had just left the Chamber in a hurry, and who you appointed as Minister for Foreign Affairs last summer, according to the news reports, was already involved in the corruption case in Balmazújváros. As you know, Margit Veres, the current mayor, as a notary of Balmazújváros, took in cash in private in December 2012 forints 5 million from an entrepreneur whose company received 180 million from the local government on the same day. The notary met with István Tiba, then mayor, and gave him the money the next day. From now on, Margit Veres received a car as a gift from the said contractor. The case is already in court, and as a witness, István Tiba confessed, who defended himself that the money was only borrowed by a friend. By the way, this loan was not included in his statement of assets; it was only replaced when a declaration of assets was initiated against him, more than three years after the declaration of assets was given. On the last day of the trial, last week, it was also confirmed by several local representatives, which Tiba's former deputy mayor, who claimed that Veres and Tiba had misled the entire body of representatives in order for the generous local entrepreneur to receive from the city a certain HUF 180 million. Dear Minister, You've been quiet about this for months. There's a Fidesz mayor on the bench of the defendants, and there's corruption money on the Fidesz MP who made a false statement in this case. It's time for you to speak, Minister. Please provide specific answers to the following questions. Do you think it's right for someone after three and a half years to correct their property statements because of facts found in a criminal case, and there's no consequence of that? Were you aware of Tiba's involvement in this matter when you appointed her Minister of State last year? How do you judge the role of the defendant, your mayor, Margit Veres, in this case? Do you wish to do something about it? [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] So that fidesz politicians involved in corruption would disappear from public life? I look forward to your substantive answer. Thank you. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2016-05-23-172	Congressman, Minister János Lázár has the floor. Here you go, Minister.
u2016-05-23-173	Thank you very much. Dear fellow Member, Given that we are talking about my fellow Member, István Tiba, let me begin by saying that I am biased in this matter, given that István Tiba has been a very long time since 2002, not only a fellow Member, but also a friend, and even a long time ago, I know him as a Fidesz member. I strongly stand by him, which is confirmed not only by that, but also by the fact that István Tiba is right on this issue. What voters think about this is very important to take into account, given that in the first part of his speech or his speech he referred to the fact that something was discovered in December 2013. In the spring of 2014, I heard that István Tiba was elected the MP of the region, not Jobbik's candidate. I would like to inform you that, in the autumn of 2014, the person concerned, who may be involved in this case, was elected mayor. So the voters, along with the embarrassing campaign, decided to leave the city's leadership to these two people, knowing exactly what the presumption was or what the point of this case was. I can't tell you what's going to happen in this case, because from your words and the information available, it turns out that the D.A.'s investigation was conducted, and then you closed it with an indictment, and the court is prosecuting, not against István Tiba. So, against our fellow Member, we can expect so much fairness from another fellow Member that he clearly tells us that they have listened to István Tiba as a witness on three occasions. His suspicions in this case have not been raised in any way. And the suspect's job is to account for what he's done and bear the consequences and the responsibility. What I can tell you is that the government always helps Balmasújváros, when there's a Fidesz government. That's what we did now. Indeed, as a faction leader and secretary of state in 2012, my friend István Tiba, as mayor of Balmazújváros, did everything in his power to obtain state aid, if I remember correctly, to build a hall, which they had received. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] And by the way, we're hoping the justice system will clear the air. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-05-23-174	Thank you very much, Minister. One-minute rejoinder Congressman Gergely Kulcsár has the floor.
u2016-05-23-175	Thank you for the floor. Dear Minister, In the spring of 2014, voters did not know anything about this because they could only be informed of the fact of the investigation. István Tiba was delirious, he said he didn't know what was going on, or he lied about a routine investigation in the campaign. I remember that well because I was running in that area. But he didn't answer how he felt about improving his assets after three and a half years. That's when he remembered that there was a contradiction between what he did in his asset statement and what he said in court. Obviously, he didn't want to go to trial for perjury, so he changed his asset statement after Jobbik drew attention to it. I would also like to tell you that Margit Veres, your mayor's candidate, together with the MSZP, is your mayor, he is a defendant in this case, and he testified as a defendant that he was following his superior's orders, that at the time of the crime, his boss was István Tiba, and that the circle closes here. Dear Minister, [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] Do you tolerate these politicians in your ranks? [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2016-05-23-176	Thank you very much. A one-minute rejoinder is given to Minister János Lázár.
u2016-05-23-177	Let us wait for the end of this procedure as regards the status and position of the mayor. On the other hand, my fellow Member, István Tiba, is on the case as a witness and not a suspect. I think that's quite clear. Third, citizens of Balmazújváros, as has been the case, can count on the government's help in building a sports hall or supporting the city in the future. As I have listened to you, if I were from Balmasújváros, I would vote for Mayor István Tiba and Margit Veres with all his mistakes. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-05-23-178	Thank you very much, Minister. Dear Parliament, Dear Parliament, Member László Szászfalvi, representative of KDNP, wants to ask the Minister of Human Resources an immediate question:. Has the number of family-friendly jobs grown in recent years? It's an address. The Minister appointed Secretary of State Bence Rétvári to respond to his urgent public mission. Mr President, Mr President, you are already indicating whether you accept the person who is responding, and then Secretary-General Bence Rétvári will respond accordingly. Congressman László Szászfalvi has the floor. Here you go, Congressman.
u2016-05-23-179	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, The support of families, the unity of the family, the solidarity and preservation of the family have been praised on numerous occasions by many people here in this House. As a representative of the Group of the Christian Democratic People's Party, I now turn to the Honourable Secretary of State on the basis of an initiative launched 16 years ago. The project was launched by the first Orbán government, which has become increasingly important in recent years. [[17.00]] The proposal itself draws attention to the importance of the topic and, on the other hand, the thinking of employers who have at least learned about the candidate and the application is influenced by the importance of creating family-friendly jobs. Not to mention, of course, the prize winners, who, in addition to financial support, receive moral recognition, not only from the prize winners, but also from their employees. Dear Secretary of State, The application, issued by the Ministry of Human Resources at the beginning of May, aims to create and support family-friendly jobs and family-friendly work programmes that help reconcile work and private life, coordinate family, private and work obligations. Let us not forget that if the worker can work in a balanced way at work, he will work much more efficiently. The employer will benefit from this, and this will benefit the entire Hungarian society. [[Dr. Lajos Szűcs is replaced by Attila Gelencsér in the notary seat.]] Family-friendly labour market instruments, such as working time or holiday spending adapted to the opening hours of educational institutions, part- and flexible working time or training, have a significant role to play in coordinating child and employment. In view of the experience of the past period, I respectfully ask Mr State Secretary whether the number of family-friendly jobs has increased over recent years, what is expected in the future. I look forward to your reply. [[Applause from the Fidesz ranks.]]
u2016-05-23-180	Thank you very much, Congressman. Thanking you for your cooperation, your work, I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári to inform you that I will give the chair to Vice-President Tamás Sneider. [[It's a rare applause from Jobbik's ranks.]] [[President Tamás Sneider, Vice-President of the National Assembly.]]
u2016-05-23-181	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, When we set a family-friendly Hungary as one of the main objectives of our governance, it is very important for everyone at work to feel that family-friendly jobs, family-friendly taxation in tax legislation, other rules, other forms of recognition, are considered to be an important goal of the government, not only in the area of tax relief for mothers returning from childbirth in the job protection action plan, but not only in terms of employment benefits related to children's extras. [[Dr. Wind Bernadett, you've kicked the mothers out!]] In addition, employers who pay attention to the environment they provide for workers should also receive recognition. This has its results, since much more mothers now work after having children than before, much more legally for families, for mothers with small children, in terms of taxing the working environment and in other respects. This is why we have announced that we encourage employers to create a child-friendly environment, a family-friendly job application. It's been going on for years. In 2011, 250 applicants submitted their applications, as well as 318 in 14 and 545 small, medium and large companies and budgetary institutions applied for this title. In 2011, 18 winners received a HUF 20 million grant, in 2013 we were able to support 28 companies and institutions, which was HUF 22.8 million in total, and in 2014 we recognised 43 applicants out of HUF 22.7 million. This means not only financial recognition, but also, obviously, a small sign that can be posted in the institution, showing that this is already a recognised family-friendly job. I'll continue from here. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2016-05-23-182	I give the floor to Congressman László Szászfalvi in return.
u2016-05-23-183	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Thank you, Mr State Secretary, for your reply, which has shown that the government has been trying to give priority support to families, family workers, so far and beyond. In KDNP's opinion, the creation and support of family-friendly jobs not only plays a major role in the development of corporate culture in Hungary, but also plays a prominent role in spreading a family-friendly atmosphere, environment and community environment, as well as helping young people and young married people to take on as many children as they want, and in this, their workplace should be a partner, a cooperative partner, not an obstacle. Thank you very much for your reply. [[Applause from the Fidesz ranks.]]
u2016-05-23-184	I now give the floor to Secretary Bence Rétvári in a moment.
u2016-05-23-185	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Like I said, I'll keep going. In 2015, with a record amount of HUF 50 million, we announced the application for a family-friendly workplace, and 53 applicants were supported. This shows the constant rise in the prestige of the prize, more and more people are coming up, more and more people are winning, and they are getting more and more support. We hope that they can be role models for other employers, and we hope that in many respects this may be a sign, that workers who want to go under conditions that are more favourable to having children, parents with children, will rather choose this job. This is also a kind of good signal in the labour market, where they compete for good workers, where appropriate. It is also important that, as a result of the legislative amendments, it is now possible to establish a nursery in the workplace by transforming the nursery. Thus, jobs that are partly willing to cover the costs of this can, in addition to State aid, resolve intraday supervision of young children on the spot. I think that's another big step forward. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2016-05-23-186	Dear Parliament, Erzsébet Schmuck, representative of the LMP, wants to ask the Minister of National Economy an immediate question:. Who will be the loser of the cafeteria system? It's an address. You have the floor, Congresswoman.
u2016-05-23-187	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Minister, The European Court of Justice has ruled that the Hungarian cafeteria system in its current form is not compatible with EU law. The Hungarian government has to decide on the restructuring of the system by 15 June, but it does not appear to be the case. At least that's what we found out last week at the permanent consultation forum of the competition sphere and the government. Based on what has been said there, they would split the cafeteria framework that can be provided per employee and the SZÉP card would remain. The SZÉP card would be available up to half the 200,000 HUF and the other half would be rented. It also turned out that health care and pension self-care would be in jeopardy. In addition, Minister Lazarus said earlier that state officials would not have any cafeteria at all in the future. Not only would they not expand the scope of benefits, as proposed by LMP, with the loan repayment support, but they would also eliminate so far. We believe that the planned changes are unacceptable. Even the double taxation system raised earlier by the Prime Minister would only be sufficient to keep wages at a level, but without reducing the burden on employers, a reduced cafeteria framework would lead to a reduction in wages. Two things are certain: the cafeteria must remain in the public sector, and the wages of the workers must not be reduced any longer, and even a multi-key tax is needed to increase it. According to the LMP, only a transformation is acceptable that takes into account all of this. My questions are as follows: why does the government want to split the cafeteria framework that can be provided per employee, and why does it want to leave public officials out of the system? Why do you want to narrow down the benefits system instead of expanding it? Thank you. [[In the notary seat, Dezső Believing is replaced by Loránt Hegedűs.]]
u2016-05-23-188	I now give the floor to Minister Mihály Varga.
u2016-05-23-189	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and You've stitched up a lot of things in these two minutes, let me respond to a few things. First of all, to record two facts, or to quote two numbers to your attention. One is that since the change of government in 2010, more than half a million people have had jobs and jobs than before, 550 thousand more people have worked than six years ago. On the other hand, real earnings have increased by more than 15 percent since 2010. So what you're talking about is an empty scare, without any facts. However, it is also a fact that you are still insisting on a tax system that has punished the work. Let us not forget that Hungary got into trouble in 2008 with the tax system that was a progressive tax system, first among creditors - ahead of Greece. You are pressing for this, again you want us to introduce an extra tax rate, again you want us to introduce a high tax rate in certain income categories. We are not going to do this, Congresswoman, and I think that this is a bad course, and Hungary has already come this way, and we do not have to go back to this again. As regards the transformation of the cafeteria system: here let me remind you that we are conducting a consultation in the joint committee with the competition sector where employers and employees are represented. Last week, during this meeting, I informed them about the government's ideas. But I wasn't talking about the fact that we're talking about fixed, settled issues here, but we're asking for their opinion. [[17.10]] That's why we have this committee, and that's what this thing is for, so they've told us what they want, and you've just canceled some of it here. Obviously, they would like the system to remain unchanged, but we would like the workers to receive as much of the income as possible in cash, and they would decide what they want to spend; it is not for politics, not for you or anyone else to decide, but for the employee to decide who receives that cafeteria. [[Dr. András Schiffer: Discuss interests!]] Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-05-23-190	Now, Congresswoman Erzsébet Schmuck will have the floor in a minute.
u2016-05-23-191	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, I can confirm that we still do not think it right that the so-called hire of cafeteria should be called a wage increase, this is not a wage increase. We will be able to talk about wage increases and real wage increases when our proposal will be adopted and the multi-key personal income tax system will be introduced when the minimum wage and average wage and the rest will actually increase. The other half is that we think it is very important to preserve the cafeteria system, because this system serves proven, important social goals, it is important for workers to relax, to culturalize, to sport, to take care of their pensions. So it is not right at all that you want to split it, maintain the cafeteria system at the previous level, and keep the goals that have been in the system so far.
u2016-05-23-192	The Minister will have the answer in a minute.
u2016-05-23-193	Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and [[Dr. András Schiffer intervenes.]] Madam Member, the government's strong opinion is that this circle should be narrowed down, and that it will be possible to use the cafetheria in the future, as we propose, in particular, to provide hospitality, accommodation and leisure, and therefore to renew human resources. I very much hope that this will be supported by our stakeholder partners. And as for real wages, let me remind you once again that real wages have risen by 15 percent. You know what that means? It means that it has increased so much over inflation. [[Erzsébet Schmuck: To whom? Dr. Wind Bernadett intervenes.]] so the workers were better off. If you don't understand, I'm very sorry. The LMP faction receives 173 million forints of experts, and I recommend that you use this money to hire an expert who will explain what real wage growth means. Thank you very much. [[Intercoms from the LMP lines. Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-05-23-194	Dear Parliament, Dénes Galambos, representative of Fidesz, wants to ask the Minister of National Economy an immediate question:. Even credit rating agencies can't refuse that the Hungarian reforms are working! What effect can rating have on investor confidence? It's an address. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2016-05-23-195	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear Minister, For the sixth year, the government has been trying to correct the failed economic policy of socialist governments, when they have been indebted to the country in an irresponsible fiscal policy and Hungary is in a state of bankruptcy. The change of government in 2010 has led to a clear economic policy change, as the economy is on the path to growth, we were out of the excessive deficit procedure in 2013 and we have also managed to repay the last EUR 1.5 billion tranche of the EUR 14.3 billion IMF-EU loan package. The Fitch Ratings international credit rating agency announced in London late Friday evening, after closing the European and US markets, that the rating of long-term sovereign Hungarian debt issued in foreign currency was improved from BB plus to BBB minus by one grade - this grade is the basic level of the category recommended for investment. The outlook for the new classification is stable. Fitch Ratings was the first of the three major international credit rating agencies to re-advise Hungary with an investment recommendation. [[To the opposition representatives who are talking to each other:]] They don't seem to care. The reasons include the high surplus of current balance sheet balances, significant subsidies from the European Union, the external balance sheet adjustment process of the banking system, the conversion of the self-financing programme and foreign exchange-based real estate loans, which contributed significantly to the improvement of Hungary's external payment equilibrium and the vulnerability of the Hungarian economy. According to GP Morgan's analysts, such a decision can be expected in 2016 by Moody, as this credit rating also maintains a positive outlook for the possibility of upgrading. I ask the Minister about the impact of upgrading on the Hungarian economy and investor confidence. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-05-23-196	I now give the floor to Minister for Finance Mihály Varga.
u2016-05-23-197	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Honourable Congressman, Thank you for asking. It is true that we have been able to reverse an 11-year process with this decision on Friday, because let us not forget: the deterioration and deterioration of the Hungarian credit rating has been ongoing since 2005. It also shows that the consequences of bad economic policy decisions do not go from moment to moment, but that it takes years to reverse it. This is what happened to credit rating agencies. Remember, when this rating deterioration occurred in 2005 in Hungary, the then government reacted by beginning to trick, hundreds of tricks, but not only hundreds of tricks, but also budget tricks when the then government people tried to lead the European Union in 2006 and 07 by mixing cash and profit figures. It did not work, but the economic policy problems remained here. In 2010, this transformation had to start, and, as we said then, this transformation process could result in credit rating agencies either not interpreting it correctly or even giving the country a worse rating. Now, we have been able to put an end to this process, as the reduction in public debt, the suppression of deficit, the start of economic growth, the external balance, the stability of external positions have made it possible for this rating to change. As regards citizens' feelings - the question of the Member also concerned this - I think it is very important to encourage people that, in the long term or even in the medium term, this decision could mean spending less on the renewal of public debt in Hungary if we spend less on this, we can spend more on tax cuts, we can spend more on wage catching up, or we can spend more on investments that serve people's daily renewal, health investments, cultural investments or sports investments. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] The aim is, therefore, that much of the money will go this way from this savings. Thank you. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-05-23-198	Now it's Congressman Dénes Pigeon's turn in a minute.
u2016-05-23-199	Dear House, Dear Minister, Thank you for your reply to my immediate question. In view of the history, it is also important to recall that the improvement in the structure of the public debt has also had positive consequences for investor confidence, as shown by the decline in the country's CDS spreads. In this regard, at the time of the crisis, it still pointed to a large part of the CDS share of Hungarian paper between 400 and 600 basis points, today it shows a premium of 150 and 165 basis points, and I think that the projected deficit rate of last year's Hungarian sovereign debt in proportion to GDP has shown a significant improvement of 2.4 percent. Earlier, we hoped that the credit rating agencies would also appreciate it and give our country the higher rating that would have been appropriated by virtue of performance a long time ago. Fitch's decision means that credit rating agencies can no longer refuse Hungarian results and follow investor behaviour. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-05-23-200	The Minister will have the floor in a minute.
u2016-05-23-201	Thank you, Mr. President. I share the Congressman's opinion. [[Dr. Wind Bernadett intervenes.]] I also feel that, in fact, the market's opinion has now been followed by credit rating agencies or one of the credit rating agencies, as the market has long given a positive signal for Hungary. In recent years, the Hungarian investment rate has been above 20 per cent compared to gross domestic product, which shows that it is worth investing in Hungary, it is worth bringing capital to Hungary, and foreign investors know it very well. Obviously, we don't think that with this one rating decision, we've already arrived at Canaan. [[Dr. András Schiffer intervenes.]] Or we've reached the best possible point. [[Dr. Wind Bernadett intervenes.]] There is still a great deal more to be done, so that Hungary's economic growth will be at a higher level and much more stable: industrial development, the transformation of the labour market, the renewal of the training system, the further transformation of the tax system, and I think that they will contribute to a permanent high growth path for the Hungarian economy. Thank you very much for asking. [[Dr. András Schiffer and Dr. Bernadett Wind intervene. Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-05-23-202	Ladies and gentlemen, The hour of immediate questioning is over. Two points of order were received. On behalf of the first Congressman Sallai R. Benedek, so I'll give the floor to the congressman in two minutes.
u2016-05-23-203	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I asked to speak on the immediate question of our fellow Member, János Pócs, because of personal concerns. First of all, the President indicated that he would signal to the Speaker that I had unauthorized presentation of anything, and I illustrated that I had no permission to do so. [[17.20]] My request would be for the House Committee to discuss it in conjunction with Mr Pócs's proceedings, since he did the same thing last week and showed mill paintings here upside down. By the way, the bottom is wider. Tell Mr. Puddle to the mill. At the same time, I would also like to point out in my order that, in the category of immediate questions, the Rules of the House are clear, that it is possible to ask questions about the government and not to use it to frame various opposition representatives. The Rules of the House do not provide much room for this, so it is quite flexible. In the third part, I would like to say that it is very, very necessary for them to disappear from the political spectrum, because with this political culture that Mr Pócs represents, there will never be a fair dialogue in Parliament, and there will never be a change in the political culture that is needed in the 21st century. In the first century Hungary. And at that time, as far as personal involvement is concerned, I wanted to say that what you are saying is, in fact, the category of lie that you are talking about, obviously, what the Secretary of State said. That is why it is wrong that someone does not know their own area of expertise, because what he said was that we did not apply for tourism; yes, this is because they excluded settlements above 5,000 people after the change of government and could not submit a new application until the tender was closed, so it could not be. But I contacted him, during the Fidesz administration, in 2012, the North Great Plain Regional Development Agency rejected our proposal, in which we clearly indicated that the mill was going to collapse and that it would be very much needed. So you didn't support him during your administration. Let me tell you so much more, only to what Mr Pócs said, that the municipality of Túrkeve is fidesz-led, yet there is cooperation to deal with the situation, and there is a good cooperation to deal with this situation. Everything else will be settled in court with Mr. Puddle. Thank you very much.
u2016-05-23-204	I see here the local Dallas continues on this issue. [[Dr. István Apáti: The question is, who is J.R. and who is Bobby? Interview from Jobbik's benches: Where is Samantha?]] This was not the first time there was a criticism of the LMP fraction about housekeeping. As has already been said on the last time, I ask that, if you consider it necessary to interpret the Rules of the House, you turn to the House Committee and then you will have to make that interpretation there. Congressman András Schiffer also asked for the floor in order of business.
u2016-05-23-205	Mr. President. It is on a point of order, but it is the same content that my fellow Member Sallai has said. I would like to point out that when you make a point of order to the President-in-Office, all respect belongs to the President-in-Office, but it is not about who is sitting in the chair, but to the institution itself, who makes a point of order. This point of order is then split in two. One is that, in relation to the Rules of the House, regardless of what the exact interpretation of a provision is, please measure with equal standards. Therefore, if the illustration is not permitted in one case, no other faction is allowed. So it is possible to interpret a house rule in one way or another, one thing is certain, according to faction, to give different interpretations of rules, this cannot be done. Two: I also said several times at the House Committee meeting, the text of the House Rule is clear. The institution of the immediate question is to obtain a reply from a member of the government on a matter falling within the competence of the government. I said - the last time I asked for a point of order in the case of the Jobbik fraction - that an immediate question could not be asked on a matter which, for example, falls within the competence of the Court of Auditors or other bodies. In this case, the chairman should have prevented János Pócs from asking his question. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the benches of opposition parties. Dr. Gergely Bárándy: Mr. President! Every faction can speak...]]
u2016-05-23-206	Thank you, Congressman. The proposal was recorded, and this will obviously come up in the House Committee the next time. Ladies and gentlemen, Now... [[For signal:]] Then there's one more order of business. Congressman Gergely Bárándy asked for the floor in order of business.
u2016-05-23-207	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. The reason I asked for a word in order of business and not a normal word is because, in principle, I think that every faction could have spoken to a point of order. But if that is not how the President interprets it, then I would do it once more as a point of order, which sounds like I would ask the House Committee to deal with these two matters together. Manage János Pócs's housebreaking case together and deal with Mr Sallai R. Benedek's case together, because they have used the same tools on the same subject, so both of them have used an illustration tool. With all due respect, Vice-President Latorcai, who, by the way, does lead the meetings exemplary and impartially, but what happened in this case was that, while Mr János Pócs had left his question in its entirety and only then called for the non-executive tools to be used, he interrupted Mr R. Benedict Sallai's speech and ordered him immediately. I think that this does not meet the conditions for impartial housekeeping. But if that's the case, [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] I think it's fair, especially since it's the same topic and the same case, that these two [[The president's ringing again.]] deal with the case in one piece. That would therefore be my motion for a point of order. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2016-05-23-208	Thank you. There's a minute for a point of order. I am in a difficult situation because I was not here when this ominous incident occurred, but one thing is certain that this speech is actually a matter for the House Committee. They will have to decide whether or not they will discuss this issue together. Then there is no further opportunity to speak, since the item is closed and no further order of business is required. Ladies and gentlemen, It is now time for the negotiation of a series of proposals. The LMP Group has proposed that the Parliament decide on the T/8563 amendment to the Sixth Amendment to the Fundamental Law of Hungary. Bill No. 1 on inclusion in the series of articles. The series of articles was rejected by the Judicial Committee. First, I give the floor to the rapporteur, Mrs Bernadett Wind, in five minutes.
u2016-05-23-209	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, all five pro-government colleagues who are sitting in this debate! I am very sorry that when it comes to equal pay for equal work in this country, zero - to be exact - government members respected the debate with their presence. I find this attitude amazing on the part of the governing parties, especially because it was the Fidesz-KDNP government that removed from the Fundamental Law the constitutional guarantee that laid down the principle of equal pay for equal work. This was in the previous constitution, and it was literally said that everyone has the right to equal pay for equal work, without discrimination. Now that we are attempting to put this provision back into the Fundamental Law, I thought that at least the government would have the honour to come in and state its position, but it is likely that either one of the Members will do so, or we will not know what the Fidesz-KDNP's problem is with having this one sentence included in the Hungarian Fundamental Law. I think that the misconception that was born of the governing parties at committee level in the previous debates is shameful in itself. I also think it is a problem that the 21st edition of the European Parliament and the Council should be accompanied by a proposal from the European Parliament and the Council. In the first century, this may be a question that a country's most important text does not include this sentence, that we are trying to put it back there. I think it would be a fundamental task to put this on there. This is of particular importance, in many ways. Let me start by saying that there is a fairly significant pay gap between the sexes in this country. For the same job, women and men get different wages. We can observe the same in different landscapes in the country, that for the same work they received different wages in one part of the country and in the other part, but the fact is that for eight hours of work, a different wage is paid if they work for public work or if they do so for minimum wage. Let me start by saying that the May Other Politics has fought many times and we have fought to gradually eliminate the pay gap in this country. We have placed the equal pay program on the table, but the governing parties have voted against it every time, without any particular justification. Yet, every survey has shown that the biggest wage difference between genders is when we compare highly qualified and graduate employees. This wage difference could amount to up to 30 percent. To put it quite clearly, if we look at, say, a bank official who's middle level in this country, if he's a woman, he can get up to 30 percent less for the same job than if he's a man, but in the social hierarchy... [[An intervention from the Fidesz ranks.]] But, dear fellow Member, that's right, that's 30 percent. If you don't believe it, then look into it, read about it, as many people in the Hungarian Parliament have already done. But I have to say, this pay gap can happen anywhere in the social hierarchy. The higher we look at people with higher education, the more brutal it seems. [[17 .30]] We also know from Eurostat data that the pay gap increased by 3 percentage points between 2009 and 2012 in Hungary, was a low point in 2012, and we are now at a point where we have returned to the pre-crisis level. I am sorry that Minister Varga went out, because when I asked him at his ministerial hearing what he, as the responsible minister, wanted to do on this subject, he replied that a market economy has a bearing on the fact that there is a pay gap between the sexes. Well, I'm glad to read that in a few years, you've come to the point of saying that this is an important issue, and you have to fight it. I report, Honourable Parliament, this bill, which we put on the table as the sixth amendment to the Fundamental Law, would be just such a tool to combat the pay gap. And let me give you another example: the World Economic Forum looked at the differences in 2015. In addition to the fact that Hungary has completed 99th place among 145 countries in terms of the difference between women and men, it has achieved even worse equal pay for equal work, and we have finished 119th place from 145 countries. The formula is only worse if you look at women's political participation, because we're in 139th place. The other subject I must highlight is the case of the public workers. So I think you're also working to get this back into the Fundamental Law, because then you wouldn't be able to get public workers to work for 52 thousand forints, but you would have to get nearly 74 thousand forints for the work they're doing. Obviously, the first step would be to include this provision in the Fundamental Law, which we have proposed, the principle of equal pay for equal work, the protection of women, the protection of public workers and the protection of every person working on the labour market. But the second step would be to enforce it. We have put the solutions to this, the action plan with the equal pay programme, and you didn't have to do anything but say that by redirecting this 3 billion forints, for example, we could knock down the huge wage gap by 30 percent by 2018. I look forward to your views on these issues in the debate.
u2016-05-23-210	Dear Parliament, Now one Member per group of Members can express his opinion within a two-minute time frame, the same applies to the first independent Member. First of all, I give the opportunity to the written speaker, Mr Sebestyén Szépó.
u2016-05-23-211	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Of course, we agree that this principle should go back to the Fundamental Law, but we cannot have illusions, because as long as the Constitution was in force, that principle did not apply. So this is almost only symbolic, of course, of symbolic significance that would be required to adapt to other legislation and everyday life, but that is so not expected. We will support this proposal, despite the fact that we cannot really agree with the explanation provided in the explanatory statement, but I believe that a general debate, a debate before Parliament, gives rise to this proposal, so that everyone can express their own views in more detail on why they support this proposal or why they do not support it. What I do not agree with in person is what we can read in the explanatory statement about the public workers, and we have heard it orally. I think that if the principle of equal pay for equal work for the public workers were to be applied, many of the public workers would be worse than what they are in the current situation, because a lot of mayors, a lot of offices are almost just using the public employment system for alibi work. We know very well, and Mrs President, you know that this is a mix-up between employment policy and social policy. I believe that what you have said may be correct and that the situation of public workers in certain areas or in certain situations needs to be improved. I rather believe that the current system of public employment must be completely abolished or changed, specifically saying that it is a social measure or an employment policy measure. Nevertheless, we can support the inclusion of this proposal in the subject series, and I believe that Parliament should negotiate this, and I believe that this principle, as a democratic country, must definitely go back to the Fundamental Law. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of Jobbik and LMP.]]
u2016-05-23-212	I now give the floor to Congressman Robert Répássy in two minutes.
u2016-05-23-213	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and According to Eurostat data, in the year of entry into force of the Fundamental Law, the pay gap between the sexes was more than 18% in Hungary. It is therefore likely that it is difficult to demonstrate the link between the entry into force of the Fundamental Law or the drafting of the Fundamental Law with the pay gap before the Fundamental Law. It is therefore entirely wrong that the Fundamental Law does not have precise and modern means of prohibiting gender differences. Thus, Article XV of the Fundamental Law. Article 2 (1) ( 1) and (2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union provides for a general prohibition on discrimination and the requirement of gender equality. In addition, even this basic statutory provision is provided for by the 2003 CXXV on equal treatment and the promotion of equal opportunities. Law 21, to be exact. §2 of the directive, which provides for an infringement of the requirement of equal treatment where the employer applies direct or indirect discrimination against the worker, in particular on grounds of sex or on the basis of other personal characteristics. So both the Fundamental Law and the Equal Treatment Act prohibit gender discrimination between workers, in addition to the fact that, of course, there is no connection with the entry into force of the Fundamental Law between the pay gap and the pay gap between the sexes. That is why we do not support the bill. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-05-23-214	I now give the floor to Congressman András Schiffer.
u2016-05-23-215	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, On behalf of the LMP fraction, I would just like to state a few things. Of course, we support the amendment of the basic law. One is that, in the constitutional process, Fidesz abolished the state of social law, such as the right to a healthy environment or the right of everyone to the highest level of physical and mental health. By the way, for example, they won the recognition of Ferenc Gyurcsány, as we learned the other day, be proud of that. The fact is that we have repeatedly tabled amendments to the basic law in order to restore the state of social law, so that social rights are rights, not targets. If social rights are subject to principles, as is the principle that we see here, then there will be action from these, my fellow Member Répássy. They can be forced out. Talking only about goals cannot be enforced. Currently, Article 21 (1) (a) of Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 966/2012 is amended as follows: In the century, even in the time of global capitalism, yes, there is gender oppression, there is gender exploitation. This is why it is essential to have a constitutional principle of equal pay for equal work in social law, because in such a situation, when the social structure brings about the fact that women are already earning less in a tendency than men, state instruments, legislative or other legislative instruments can be enforced. Of course, it is also a question of public workers. I think that my fellow editor misunderstood the situation on behalf of Jobbik. The point is that if the civil servant status is abolished in the same job, i.e. in a civil servant's job, and then the same person, as a public employee, is re-employed for less than HUF 20,000, it may be today. If the LMP's amendment to the basic law comes into force, it can't be done. These laws, which allow re-employment as a public employee for hunger wages, can be annulled by the Constitutional Court. Thank you very much.
u2016-05-23-216	I now give the floor to Congressman Gergely Bárándy.
u2016-05-23-217	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I do not think it is necessary to prove that one of the oldest left-wing efforts is to create equality between women and to enforce equal pay for equal work. Unfortunately, we can see that, in recent times, the creation of the Fundamental Law has brought out many values from the regulatory sphere of constitutionalisation that have been achieved by civil law movements or other political movements and which have otherwise created social welfare states, social law states. You can also see, as my fellow Member Schiffer said, that there was a tendency when the Fundamental Law was adopted to turn fundamental rights into a state goal, i.e. instead of being obliged by the State to guarantee something, it is now enough, under the provisions of the Fundamental Law, to pursue them. And then I'm the only one who's gonna add that either he's gonna make it or he's not, most of the time. [[17.40]] This is the situation that we are witnessing at the moment when we are discussing legislation on elderly care, which is now before us, and in Parliament it is just as topical, where it is indeed tangible where it will lead, if it becomes a fundamental right for a state. It leads the state to have the opportunity to withdraw from these areas and to transform it into a civic duty by reducing, if you will, the level of welfare of the welfare states. This is also the case with the provision that the Congresswoman has just put before us. In fact, the situation was not satisfactory despite the fact that it is in the Constitution, yet it is a rather strange logic to say that then let us step back and take it out of the Constitution instead of trying to put it back there and do something more to make it valid. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2016-05-23-218	As an independent Member, I now give the floor to Congresswoman Zsuzsanna Szelényi.
u2016-05-23-219	Thank you very much. Dear House, Today, women in Hungary have a higher education than men, this is the case at all school levels. At the same time, when you look at the salaries of working women and working men at the age of 55, you see that there are quite an amazing difference: women retire much poorer than men because they earn less. Why? There are many reasons for this. First of all, because women do much more unpaid work than men - a fact recently pointed out by research in Hungary - even though domestic work can be done by men with the same talent as women. Secondly, because women in Hungary are primarily those who raise children and who stay out of the labour market for a long time, even though men are perfectly capable of raising children, they are also free to participate in the burden of raising children. Thirdly, because women are primarily in the human service sector, where there is much less salary than the tasks normally performed by men, which characterize security, police, military, firefighting and other sectors. This is completely unfair. Finally, women earn less even where a woman and a man do the exact same work side by side. In a completely unacceptable way, the more qualified a woman is, the less she earns than a man with similar qualifications. [[It's constant noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] What we are talking about here today means that if the Constitution contains the principle of equal pay for equal work, then the government must try to change all these aspects. If this aspect is not included in the Constitution, then there is no clear obligation for the government, just as today's Hungarian government is not doing anything to enforce equal pay. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] Since we are talking about a civilizational achievement that, many years ago, corrected an unjust and unfair situation, it belongs in the Fundamental Law, I recommend that we put it back there under all circumstances. Thank you very much.
u2016-05-23-220	I don't see any further opposition. I'll ask the author if he'd like to comment. [[For signal:]] Congresswoman Bernadett Wind will have the floor in two minutes.
u2016-05-23-221	Thank you for the opportunity. Ladies and gentlemen, Thank you for your comments. All I can tell the ruling parties is that if you think it's okay to have equal pay for equal work, then why is it removed from the Fundamental Law? From here on out, it's all bullshit. The idea that this is just an illusion, and just by putting this clause in the Fundamental Law, things are not going to change yet, there are two things I can say. One is that I myself said that this is the fund, and this is followed by the equal pay programme, the action plan, which can also be observed in the practices of other European countries in order to enforce fundamental rights. This is not what we're talking about here. This is about whether it's a fundamental right or not. Many of us agreed that the restoration of social rights is taking place when we put it into the Fundamental Law, but I have also said that a very sad practice is that an equal wage programme cannot be carried over from HUF 3 billion at the Hungarian Parliament, despite all rational reasons, Fidesz-KDNP believes that things are going well as they are; we do not. About community service and the situation of the public workers, there's one thing I can tell you. If these people, who are now public workers, do the work they do at a minimum wage at another minimum wage, then what is already happening in the country will be observed is that there is practically a complete system of reemployment, that is to say, that employed people will be fired, and that they will be taken back cheaper, or others, who are willing to do this job. It was the Ministry of the Interior who gave this phenomenon a name, and in reply to my written question, they wrote that it was a re-employment index, so there is such a thing, the government has named this system. It is a case of great sadness and far-reaching conclusions that the Hungarian government has not done anything to change this situation since then. So, if you do not pass this proposal, the only thing that means, my honourable members of the Government, is that, according to Fidesz-KDNP, equal pay is not required for equal work.
u2016-05-23-222	Ladies and gentlemen, The decision will take place on tomorrow's meeting. The LMP Group has proposed that the Parliament decide on the necessary amendment of certain laws in order to prohibit transactions in favour of offshore businesses and to exempt State operations from offshore operations T/9741. Bill No. 1 on inclusion in the series of articles. The series of articles was rejected by the Economic Committee. I'll give the floor to Mr. András Schiffer first in five minutes.
u2016-05-23-223	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Just now, the LMP argued that the Parliament should put back into the Fundamental Law the principle of equal pay for equal work. You obviously don't want this for two reasons. One is that one of the cornerstones of the Fidesz government's economic and social policies is the artificial austerity of wages, that if there is no obligation to equal pay for equal work, the more pressure can be placed on the whole wage level. The other reason why you do not want to hear these proposals is that you simply do not want to sacrifice for something like this, for example, there is no money for an equal pay programme for equal work, for the simple reason that this money is being stolen from the country, it is being pumped out of Hungary. We have already said in several debates that one of the Achilles heels of Hungary, the Hungarian economy, is offshore. Since the change of regime, Hungary's government debt has gone out 2.5 times through offshore channels, and it doesn't take much imagination to think that the economic and political elite, the leaders, have stolen corruption money through offshore channels, or they simply wanted to get away with the tax laws they created. This means that the Hungarian education, the Hungarian health care system or the rural lower roads, the railway network, is 2.5 times the public debt today. When we talk about offshoreing, of course, we cannot go without saying what has been going on in recent weeks, the case of so-called Panamanian papers, where the pats of the political elite of the last 25 years, the XX. It's the couple of the century that's involved. Dear Parliament, What the case of Panamanian papers shows is that the phenomenon is not only spreading in Hungary. This does not change the fact that Hungary is among the countries affected by offshore according to the Tax Justice Network, i.e. the 20 largest of all countries in the world. There are few countries in the world whose national economy would have suffered offshore activity to the same extent as the Hungarian national economy, and there are very simple reasons for this: there are few so dependent, exposed national economies,.Thanks to the economic policy direction adopted after the change of regime, such as the Hungarian economy. What is the conclusion that can be drawn from Panamanian papers does not improve the overall picture, and it is even that there is a great temptation not only in Hungary, but also globally, that various economic interests, various giant companies, will buy political decision-makers, who then carry out black money into offshore interests and tax havens. [[17.50]] There's a constant dispute between the government and the LMP. You keep saying that what the opposition parties or part of the opposition are talking about is not a problem because the Fundamental Law settles the issue. That's not true! Offshoreing is not only when we do not know exactly who is the real owner behind an economic interest; the Fundamental Law is about it. There's economic offshore and there's legal offshore. It is also about the fact that there are well-known tax havens, which is listed in the bill from A to Y, from Andorra to Vanuatu. We may have made a mistake once again that Andy Vajna's favourite island group, the Curaçao Islands, is not included again in the proposal, but it can, of course, be replaced by amendments. We have repeatedly taken initiatives to ban economic and legal offshores from Hungarian laws. János Lázár's words a few hours ago concerned only the fact that the Fundamental Law prohibits legal offshore. The economic offshore, however, is here and sucks the life force of the Hungarian national economy. You say the Fundamental Law prohibits legal offshore companies, offshore interests from entering public procurement. My fellow Members will say that this is not entirely true, but we would like more. We want you not to be a member of the government, not a film commissioner who has offshore interests, not in the area of the central bank who is an offshore knight, not the headquarters of offshore knights, and we also want neither the central bank, local governments, or other public bodies, or publicly owned companies to do business with offshore companies. That's the best we can do. Thank you very much.
u2016-05-23-224	Now one Member per group of Members can speak to the debate in two minutes. At the moment, I give the floor to Member György Szilágyi as a speaker in advance.
u2016-05-23-225	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. By the way, it looks like the XXI. The parties of the century, who did not participate in the country's robbing, want to continue to change this blissful situation, the XX. The parties of the century, which were involved in all this, are at all costs preventing it. After all, we and the Jobbik Hungary Movement and the LMP can constantly submit their various legislative proposals on how to stop the offshore knights, how to stop the offshore robbery that has marked the Fidesz government over the past six years, and you are constantly rejecting these amendments. In 2010, Viktor Orbán said that this became the world of offshore knights, who took themselves under the skin of the state and did not pass over hundreds of millions of dollars of offshore income, and it is not good to withdraw a few million forints of public money from the taxpayers' forints. What's changed since then? The fact that you've changed it: there's a good offshore company and there's a bad offshore company. You have made laws, bad offshore companies may be subject to these laws, and good offshore companies are not subject to these laws. What else has changed? That Viktor Orbán talked about hundreds of millions, and that you have already given tens and hundreds of billions to these companies constantly. They created an offshore list of 260 company names, which you said were offshore companies. But what has happened since this was created? Unlawfully, these companies are constantly entering into public contracts. Now, that's why we can make laws, but nothing's gonna change as long as you're on the government, or, say, a left-wing government. There will be a change when the 21st century changes. Century parties will be held in government, and they will obey the laws that you should observe, but you will not comply with them. And until these laws are observed, there will be no order in this country, and this is the world of offshore knights, offshore companies, who are robbing Hungary, robbing people's money. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of Jobbik and LMP.]]
u2016-05-23-226	I now give the floor to Congresswoman Bernadett Wind.
u2016-05-23-227	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. The LMP fraction supports this proposal. Otherwise, the simplicity and greatness of this proposal speaks for itself. It is about those involved in tax evasion or tax evasion should get away from public money. It's such a simple story. It is really not understandable why Fidesz-KDNP would not agree with this clear message. I think it's perfectly normal for state leaders and civil servants not to go off-shore. I think it is also perfectly normal for public funds not to migrate to offshore companies, not to conclude contracts with them, just as there is a message in the Andy G. Vajnák world that we would also review the existing contract stock and see where the suction effects of taxpayers' money are channeled to various offshore empires. We also see that once again the Fidesz game: you think that voters are not vigilant enough and believe you have practically solved the problem with the legal offshore. It's not enough to know who's behind the company, you have to see where it's taxing. We have therefore chosen the solution to list the various offshore islands and offshore countries from Andorra to Vanuatu, where there are far fewer taxes to pay than at home. I think it is also a clear message that if we say that in the last 25 years the total Hungarian government debt has disappeared two and a half times in offshore. This basically means that everything from the Bokros package to all the Orbán packages could have been avoided if a government had finally taken the trouble to close these channels. It's almost perverted to let these money drain. We're talking about very serious thousands of billions, and we're fighting for 3-4 billion for daycare workers, 30 billion for social workers, and we dare to mention that you've withdrawn 250 billion from education. You do not see the connection that if these taps were closed, there would be more left at home and we could give them to education and health care. However, we see this and that is why we are fighting for these proposals.
u2016-05-23-228	I now give the floor to Congressman István Józsa.
u2016-05-23-229	Thank you very much, Mr. President. The MSZP fraction supports the proposal and agrees with the proposal that, in addition to the management and use of assets and grants, it will require the offshore exemption for all commitments undertaken under the central budget for the future and enforce the same requirement for participation in public procurement. This prohibition also applies to indirect benefits for which an income could be obtained not directly from the budget, but through the transfer of an exclusive public or municipal right - an explanatory example of this is the right to sell settlement bonds - by someone who is active in an inaccessible or offshore business. In addition to transparency requirements, the proposal also states, quite rightly, that no commitment can be made to economic operators located outside the European Union, which, taking advantage of the low level of public burdens laid down in the home State, should be made to avoid the payment of public burdens due in the light of real economic activity. This proposal could finally pour clean water into the glass of Fidesz, and perhaps the decency that has taken place in the case of the President of the Hungarian National Bank, and unfortunately it has not yet been followed by a loss of confidence on the part of the governing parties, although in this case the loss of confidence in the banking sector is causing direct damage, this loss of confidence could be stopped somewhere by banning offshoreisation. Thank you, Mr. President.
u2016-05-23-230	No further applications. I'll ask Andras Schiffer if he'd like to make a final comment. Yeah, he's coming in. You have the floor.
u2016-05-23-231	Thank you very much for your support to the XXI. It is quite amazing that no one from the Fidesz-KDNP has even applied for personal involvement. That's a hell of a thing. In principle, it is a constitutional goal to dissipate offshore knights, and then Fidesz and KDNP simply have no opinion on such an issue. Dear Parliament, To make it clear: our proposal is to ensure that no one can perform a government function, or receive a casino concession, who is an offshore knight, but I go on, even in the settlement bond business, and in Hungarian the Fidesz economic immigrant organization is not allowed to participate in offshore companies. Currently, the three companies that organize economic immigrants against settlement bonds are offshore companies. We don't know exactly who's behind them. So it's because the Fidesz-KDNP is full of offshore knights, your moonyard is full of offshore knights. We know exactly that there are various offshore companies in the vicinity of Andy G. Vajna or István Garancsi. [[18.00]] We demand that the offshore knights be swept out of the country, that they not go near public money, that they do not do business with public companies or municipal companies, and that offshore knights do not fill public positions. What we want to do is to shut down the taps in Hungary, where the amount of money that is missing today from hospitals, missing from schools, is pouring out indirectly. If you say no to even discussing this proposal, you will make it clear that Fidesz is on the side of the offshore knights. Thank you very much. [[It's a rare applause in the ranks of the Jobbik.]]
u2016-05-23-232	Ladies and gentlemen, The decision will take place on tomorrow's meeting. Dear Parliament, The Jobbik Group has proposed that the National Assembly decide on the use of Hungary's coat of arms and flag and the 2011 CCII on state medals in order to withdraw the State medals granted to unworthy persons. T/10174. Bill No. 1 on inclusion in the series of articles. The series of articles was rejected by the Cultural Committee. I give you the floor first, in five minutes, to Congresswoman Dóra Dúró.
u2016-05-23-233	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Following the outbreak of the Kiss László case, Jobbik was the first and only party to demand that László Kiss be removed from the position of federal captain of the swimming team. But the explosion of the case not only raises questions about his person, but also requires measures from both the Hungarian Parliament and the government that have been waiting for themselves for 25 years. One of these aspects of the case is the issue of state medals and the fact that at present there is no legislation allowing state medals to be withdrawn. When journalists asked the government about this, János Lázár said that it is necessary to create the legal conditions for this, it is possible to talk about this issue. Well, with a few minutes' work, our legislative group created the legal condition that if the majority of the Cultural Committee had adopted, the state awards would be withdrawn. Obviously, this case has a moral aspect. In our view, the state award is not only a recognition for professional work, but also a moral aspect to which the person who receives these awards must simply be worthy. In 2011, the question of the withdrawal of the medals was also raised, then Ákos Kertész made a statement degraving Hungarianism. After that, the government also discussed the matter, after the President of the Republic of Pál Schmitt himself initiated with Viktor Orbán in order to create the withdrawal of state medals in the case of people who had become unworthy of it. Pál Schmitt said that those who violate the constitutional values of the Hungarian state will become unworthy of the state award. This is what he believes happened in the case of Ákos Kertész, which is why he initiated it. Péter Szijjártó, as spokesperson of the Prime Minister, announced that yes, the government agrees, and Zsolt Semjén's task is to create a legislative background, a bill that can resolve this issue with satisfaction. This was done in September 2011, almost five years have passed since then, and the government has still not submitted to Parliament the bill or legislation that would solve this issue. In Hungary, if a municipal representative becomes unworthy to hold the office of municipal representatives, he loses his mandate. And it becomes unworthy of the municipal law, for example, if it is sentenced to imprisonment. In Hungary, a body of representatives may withdraw the mandate of a municipal representative if he has been sentenced to imprisonment. If there is such a condition in the case of a municipal office, why is there no such condition in the case of a state medal? It is much more acknowledgment to receive a state medal than to be a municipal representative, and a clear message from the state is that it is considered necessary only in this circle, so the government has not prepared its proposal. At the same time, it is important to emphasise that state medals should not be destroyed by party political games. Therefore, no regulation should be put in place that would allow the President of the Republic to withdraw all state medals in any way during the change of government, whether the person of the government or the President of the Republic, so that the political course would have only a toy on who receives the state medal and who is withdrawn from. That is why Jobbik has initiated a five-party discussion on this issue, for example, to succeed in creating a regulation that does not make state medals a toy for party political battles. So, in both the moral dimension and the legislative background, the government has committed huge failures in the last five years, even in the last 25 years. And we can't find any argument that would make any difference to the fact that, yes, the withdrawal of state medals must be created. So we can only think of one thing, because they do not say anything, they have no valid arguments against this proposal, the only argument that is possible is that Viktor does not allow this regulation to be born. [[Defiance.]] Thank you very much for your attention. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2016-05-23-234	It is now possible to comment in two minutes by group of representatives. There is no previous speaker, so I give the floor to Mrs Bernadett Szél.
u2016-05-23-235	The LMP basically supports the proposal to withdraw the state award from those who have become unworthy of it. I anticipate that this would be a practical return to previous practice, which was in force between 2008 and 11th. At that time, the President of the Republic was entitled to withdraw the medal on grounds of a lack of merit. As we know, László Sólyom took advantage of this opportunity in the case of Péter Farkas Olympic champion. In fact, there is no reasonable reason why the President of the Republic should not take this opportunity. And indeed, the Kiss case has also pointed out that there are indeed cases where a decorated person has shown that in the past he has committed an act or actions that make him not worthy of receiving or retaining state recognition, keeping his previous recognition. This opportunity, I think, must be granted. There is also a legitimate need for society to do so, and previous working practices also demonstrate that this can be done rationally. Let me point out that in 2011, when the issue of state medals came up in a debate, it was György Rubovszky, on the part of Fidesz, who said, and I quote, that we deliberately left out the procedural possibility of this law. We need to find a solution that actually provides the right procedure. We consider that the possibility by administrative means actually results in uncoordinated debates and pointless cuts back and forth. I will finish the quote here, but I would add that the correct procedure on the part of the Fidesz-KDNP has not been developed since then, which Mr Rubovszky mentioned. I think that there is obviously a lack of regulation, and this proposal could definitely replace it. But if Fidesz-KDNP has any concerns about this, then it is time and space to make these suggestions. If you take the Rubovszky quote from 2011, then I think Fidesz has little room for manoeuvre. Return to the road that worked well between 2008 and 11 in this country. [[Dr. András Schiffer applauds.]]
u2016-05-23-236	I now give the floor to Congressman György Szilágyi.
u2016-05-23-237	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Now I think that we have learned from György Rubovszky in the last few days, since it has been mentioned here that there will be a big question: Viktor will allow it or not. If Viktor allows it, it can be a bill, if he doesn't allow it, it can't be a bill. And Viktor probably won't allow it here, because when the Cultural Committee discussed this bill, I say there, they were freaky statements. Vice-President László Pósán said that this should not be provided for in this law, but in the Btk., so, in his opinion, because he could only think about it - if someone commits such a crime, then the judge will say that and then the Kossuth Prize will be withdrawn as a penalty. That's nonsense! It's absolutely unthinkable. I told you that there is no need to be stuck in certain cases, because not only in the case of criminal offences, a person can be unworthy of withdrawing his prize and withdrawing his state medal. After all, as my colleague Dóra Dúró said, this is supposed to be a moral award for a man who is morally sound. I do not know if my fellow Members know that a state medal has been withdrawn in Hungary? [[18.10]] Yeah, I've been revoked. On one occasion, a Kossuth Prize was withdrawn, and subsequently Gábor Nagy, CEO of the Kazincbarcika Borsodi Cooperáció received the award in 1952 for the new technology of brown coal gasification, which was taken back from him in December 1953, because it turned out that he had stolen the technology license from the then NSZK. Once again, I say that morally this man has become unfit to receive the Kossuth Prize, it was indeed right to be withdrawn from him. Can't it be like this in life? Can't it be like this in the next few days? Yes, you can. That's why I'm trying to convince you, but there aren't enough people here to do that. So please support us in bringing this issue into a series of subjects and discussing it. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2016-05-23-238	I now give the floor to Congressman Gergely Bárándy.
u2016-05-23-239	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, As with most of the Members' motions, there is, of course, a specific root cause for the Member's submission of this proposal. As to the specific root cause, I believe that all Members of Parliament are deeply condemning it, and, of course, we agree with what happened afterwards, as far as the consequences are concerned. But obviously, a bill goes beyond a specific event, that is what my fellow Members have been talking about. We know of you, and many have referred to this, many artists, athletes, say, from Villon to O.J. Simpson to Péter Farkas, who had outstanding performance, both literary and sports performance, and people judge them on this basis, not just based on their way of life. However, there is a big difference: even though a person is awarded a medal for concrete human achievement, the medal is not like a sporting event or a brilliant artwork for which the prize may be attached specifically to the event and received by someone. Because a medal symbolizes what? First of all, the state says that this is a man whom the state sets as an example to other citizens, and says that I ask you nicely, this must be the man whom I consider worthy of the medal, we must follow his moral and professional example and the rest. If this falls for anything, and a man becomes morally unworthy to wear this medal, to be a moral role model for a state, then I think it's right to have an opportunity to withdraw a medal. Once again, I would like to emphasise that this is not a withdrawal of an Olympic title or a sports achievement, but when it goes by to become a moral role model, I think that this may also be symbolized and expressed by the withdrawal of the medal. So we support the proposal. Thank you very much.
u2016-05-23-240	I don't see any further speeches. I will ask the rapporteur, Mrs Dóra Dúró, if she wishes to comment. [[On Dóra Dúró's mark:]] Yeah. You have the floor, Congresswoman.
u2016-05-23-241	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Viktor does not seem to allow them to comment in a debate, so we opposition representatives must summon the government's position. I quoted Péter Szijjártó and my colleague Bernadett Szél quoted György Rubovszky. I will try to answer their opinion on this. György Rubovszky's objections are not true because this proposal simply refers the development of the right procedure to the government. So if you have a problem with not finding the right procedure, we'll leave it to you. This proposal leaves it to the government to establish the procedural conditions for the withdrawal of a state medal. The sports example also stands in place because if an Olympic champion athlete turns out that he did dope, so his own performance doesn't give him the result he achieved, they're gonna take back his gold medal. There, too, there are rules of procedure for this. Similarly, in the course of state medals, if it turns out that a person is unworthy of being a moral role model for a country, then he must also be taken back from the state medal. It's not a solution to the problem being swept under the rug. It is not a solution not to speak to him in this debate or to reject this proposal in the Committee on Culture with ridiculous arguments. As a case came up in 2011, a case came up in 2016 and will continue to arise. It is obvious that there is a social need for this, and by the nature of state medals it is quite simply necessary to achieve this withdrawal. If this is voted down now - they can do so, obviously they will do it tomorrow, when we decide on this - it will not end the need for society. They will not make the right decision, because it must happen, and you can see it, and obviously they will not speak to it because they see that it is right to create withdrawal. Please vote accordingly tomorrow. Thank you.
u2016-05-23-242	Ladies and gentlemen, The decision will take place on tomorrow's meeting. Dear Parliament, The Jobbik Group has proposed that the Parliament decide on the T/10191 on the sixth amendment of the Fundamental Law of Hungary. Bill No. 1 on inclusion in the series of articles. The series of articles was rejected by the Judicial Committee. First, I give the floor to the rapporteur, Mr István Apáti, in a five-minute time frame.
u2016-05-23-243	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to pick up where the President left off in his intro: he was rejected by the Justice Committee, well beyond the deadline. After the 30-day deadline laid down by law, it was hard to put this on the agenda of one of the committee's meetings, so in a house-breaking way, which, of course, was foreseen by the series of comments by György Rubovszky ominous, famous and slowly becoming a hotel. They're willing to stop us from breaking house rules, trashing everything, crossing everything that didn't come out of your head, which isn't your intellectual product. It's a high-weight bill. It is also a prominent proposal in the series of proposals amending the Fundamental Law, as it can be said without exaggeration that preventing the introduction of immigrants, alien, undesirable aliens, is a European and national issue of fate, the survival of Hungarians, the future of Hungarians, a significant influence on which either a referendum, a vote or a rejection of fundamental law-modifying proposals have a decisive impact on the fate of all the nations of Hungary and the European Union for decades. What's the story about? The story, ladies and gentlemen, is that, in the autumn of last year, when there was still a sufficient amount of time for this, Jobbik actually suggested that we hold a decisive referendum on whether, in the framework of a resettlement quota or any other title, Hungarians consider the temporary or permanent resettlement or arrival of invaders desirable or undesirable. There would have been time for this, then it would have been an appropriate response to the Brussels ideas, but now the situation has changed. As you explain in a rather unconventional way why Jobbik's proposals are not good, why are they not timely, what did you say to Lajos Kósa in the lead last fall? They said it could not be done, since it is contrary to international treaties and the Fundamental Law, there is no referendum on this issue. Even so, it was not contrary to the Fundamental Law and the International Treaty, and again, there would have been sufficient time for its implementation and implementation. Yes, only the events have accelerated since then, the situation has changed significantly, Brussels has turned to much higher speed, and this spring, from the beginning of the year until today, we can see that they want to push the Member States through with the threat of 80 million forints/person head money, by waving it, or by other means, with the greatest possible force, especially with regard to the resettlement quota in Hungary. That is why we cannot wait for a referendum to take place this autumn. This situation was recognized by Jobbik. Just as we have recognised the need to build a fence much earlier than you, to create the possibility of deploying the defence at the borders, the need to set up an independent border guard, Jobbik has joined in time and we have suggested in time that we do not delay the referendum, but, by adopting the sixth amendment to the Fundamental Law of Hungary, we must state in the Fundamental Law that, without the consent of the Parliament, these aliens and aliens cannot be relocated here - let us put it milder then. The amendment to the basic law is foolproof, safe for the country, as it is guaranteed that the votes of the representatives of Fidesz and Jobbik can be guaranteed by the two-thirds majority, by the two-thirds vote ratio of all elected representatives. This is immediate, so it doesn't cause any time delays. Last but not least, it does not cost HUF 5 billion. So as long as the referendum is expensive, it costs 5 billion, it is virtually free, as long as the referendum takes place at the earliest in the autumn, this could be accepted immediately, without any problems until mid-June, and while the referendum is uncertain, this is a perfectly safe solution. [[18.20]] Compared to this, you say that you stick to the referendum and do not consider this proposal timely. What happens if more than half of the voters don't leave? Then what will they say? Then we will lose the battle against Brussels, and then the amendment of the basic law will be weak, if at all on its feet. Such a question, from the nation's point of view, should not be placed as a training match for the 2018 elections, as you tend to play the 2018 general parliamentary elections - or at least that coaching match - in the autumn of 2016. But let's leave the political gain here, which is clear in your behavior, which clearly shows that's what this is all about. Support the inclusion of this proposal in the series of articles and support it in the final vote, since any title which, regardless of its name, would result in the relocation of intruders in substance. We ask your support for this. Thank you. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2016-05-23-244	It is now possible to make two-minute speeches by group of representatives. I give the floor to Congressman Robert Répássy.
u2016-05-23-245	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I rarely quote Jobbik's communications, which is what I will do now, and the title of their communication of 20 November 2015 reads: "The referendum would be a way of legitimate rejection of the quota system. The Communication concludes that if Fidesz really treats immigration quotas as a national matter and is not afraid to confront the Western European pro-immigration brothers and comrades, then the Hungarian people could say no to the Brussels dictatorships in a referendum. That's what Jobbik says. [[Intercoms from Jobbik's ranks. István Apáti: And what did you say? György Szilágyi: And now the end of May 2016.]] I'm glad we agree on that. So, ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of our group as a whole, on behalf of our group, I would like to ask you to support the referendum, which, in your view, is also the way of legitimate rejection of the quota system, to support the referendum so that they are not afraid to confront the Western European pro-immigration politicians and to support the referendum so that the Hungarian people can say no to the Brussels dictatorships in a referendum. This statement also states that, if the Prime Minister were to ask the will of the Hungarian people in a truly and representative manner, Jobbik would put the issue to a referendum, as proposed by the strongest opposition force. [[István Apáti: Quote Kósa! György Szilágyi: Six months have passed since then. It's the end of May 2016.]] Ladies and gentlemen, Two minutes is short enough to show you how your position changes, it changes quite often on this issue; the point is that you never agree with the government's proposal, this is the only aspect. [[György Szilágyi: It's been six months.]] Try to see if they'll agree now. What was proposed in November 2015 could now be implemented and a referendum could take place. Support the referendum! Thank you very much for the floor. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-05-23-246	I now give the floor to Congressman Dániel Z. Carpát.
u2016-05-23-247	[[No microphones.]] Thank you, Mr. President. Mr President, Dear House, Mr Répássy, my fellow Member, it seems that the years of children are passing. You poked the date, it's been six months...
u2016-05-23-248	Excuse me for a second. There must be some kind of technical error. [[They're putting a hand mike in front of the congressman.]]
u2016-05-23-249	Thank you very much. So, Congressman Répássy, as I said, children's years pass, and your memories fade, because when did Jobbik declare that a national referendum is the most excellent instrument? End of 2015. And what were you doing here when Gábor Vona told you that? Imre Vas said in a bold, impertinent way, and their secretary of state said that this was a bad, expensive, unpredictable solution. [[Intercoms from Jobbik: That's right!]] There are doubts about that. We said, and we said, that you changed your opinion, we didn't, and we're saying now that it's a national referendum rather than nothing. I only have one problem with you... [[An intervention from the Fidesz ranks.]] - and don't flinch, press a button. [[Defiance in Jobbik's ranks. Dr. Vas Imre: A little more civilized!]] My problem with you is that what we're proposing is a much stronger instrument than the national referendum, what was it about? We want to include the Fidesz referendum issue in the Fidesz Fundamental Law, and in a pathetic way, the Fidesz MEPs are yelling and saying no, because they know very well that their political daily interest wants this tension to be maintained until autumn. [[Intercoms from Jobbik: That's right!]] But what's happened since then? In Brussels, the idea of bounty payments for unaccepted migrants was cooked. Please tell us how Commissioner Navracsics, who was involved in this consensus decision, has manifested himself. Why can't Congressman Répássy clear that up? This is the fifth time I've asked you in person, not anyone else. Why can't you clear up the behavior of your former boss, your former partymate or your current partymate? So we can say that you are XX. As a force remaining in the century, they are opposed to the requirements that offer a fast, reliable, inexpensive tool. Not exclusively, because we also support a national referendum, only at a time when unaccepted migrants are being paid a bounty - partly with your participation, by the way - it is quite impertinent that they are deliberately stalling until autumn, even though they could move in another direction, but they do not. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] That's why I said you were XX. They belong to the century, and we to the 21st, and in a brazen, Pharisee way, at the cost of house violations, have drawn and postponed the solution of the whole problem, as they do now. Shame on you!
u2016-05-23-250	I don't see any other comment. I will ask the author, István Apáti, if he would like to speak. [[For signal:]] You have the floor, Congressman.
u2016-05-23-251	Thank you very much. Dear Congressman Répássy, Of course, it is not the institution of the referendum itself that is the problem; the referendum is usually a problem for you, especially if it does not serve your political interests. Let me get this straight. Here, according to surveys, there is a clear will of at least 85 percent or perhaps 90 percent, that Hungarians do not want Hungarians to see invaders 85-90 percent in Hungary, either now or later. In the Sunday shop shutter proposal, this ratio was 70:30, so that you could remove the carpet from the MSZP, from the MSZP referendum initiative, and immediately, overnight, you could amend the relevant law. Now, when it's more important than Sunday's lockdown, they suddenly find the arguments they need. Indeed, this is about the fact that Viktor has already become a lodger, and Viktor will not allow it, or what Viktor will not allow, or what Viktor will not allow, in this way in Pesties, and virtually all the decisions on the future of Hungary are now adapted to this. That's what the story is. If Viktor were to give us a green light, you could accept this proposal from Jobbik. But, you know, honourable Fidesz Members, the very important historical lesson for the individual, the community and the nation is that those individuals, communities, nations can survive and survive, which communities can adapt quickly and adapt to changed circumstances. When there was still time to go through a referendum initiative, a referendum procedure, we would have said that it would have been an appropriate solution, but when we have to speed up and this does not fit in the tight timeframe, then it is clear that a free, quick and secure solution must be chosen, because here a one-tenth chance should not be left to what happens if the masses of voters disillusioned with politics and politicians are largely absent from the referendum, then they have virtually failed in one blow, the whole nation has failed. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] this fight against Brussels, and then what will Viktor say? Thank you. [[György Szilágyi: That's right! Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2016-05-23-252	Ladies and gentlemen, The decision will take place on tomorrow's meeting. Today, we have completed the negotiation of the series of requests for admission. The Commission's reports on the amendment of certain laws concerning the financial intermediary system and the discussion of the draft amending proposal follow up. The government referral is T/10309. The Commission's non-autonomous texts are available to Parliament's IT networks. The debate will be the first to present the position of the Legislative Committee, within a maximum period of 15 minutes. I give the floor to Congressman László B. Nagy.
u2016-05-23-253	Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, I hereby inform the Parliament that the Legislative Committee discussed the T/10309 on the 19th of May 2016. a proposal for a regulation amending certain laws concerning the financial intermediary system, and in this context, Article 46 of the Rules of the House. It adopted an amendment and a summary report by 22 votes in favour, 1 against and 7 abstentions. [[18.30]] The amended amendment adopted includes the Committee's 22-point amendment proposal and the Legislative Committee's amendment Nos 1 and 2, which contains several clarification provisions. I would like to highlight the main amendments. On the one hand, in order to achieve favourable credit conditions, it should be possible for consumers to transfer to the creditor their claims arising from the insurance contracts relating to the life insurance or cover property they conclude in connection with the credit agreements as collateral. On the other hand, the proposal clarifies the 1993 XCVI on voluntary mutual funds. a law providing for elements of a guarantee rule, such as the elements of the crossing, the right to terminate, all of this was in connection with the transfer of the stock. In view of the entry into force of Regulation (EU) No 596/2014, the amending proposal repeals certain sections of the Tpt. in order to ensure the consistency of the legal system, so please support the bill and thank you for your attention. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2016-05-23-254	I will ask Ms Ágnes Hornung, Secretary of State, if she would like to comment on the proposal now. [[For signal:]] Then you have the floor, Madam Secretary.
u2016-05-23-255	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, In short, I would also like to present the current bill after Mr László B. Nagy. However, I do not want to multiply the word for long, because this is also a proposal that included a number of technical amendments. A total of 15 laws have been amended, including those listed above, i.e. the Capital Markets Act, the mortgage credit institutions Act, the Investment Services Act, the Insurance Act. These were amendments which essentially served to harmonise to the EU and to provide technical clarification. I believe that the absence of a substantive debate on either issue has shown that these amendments were fundamentally balanced and supported by everyone. And the examples were given in front of me, so I don't want to waste any time here. Thank you so much for the opportunity. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2016-05-23-256	Ladies and gentlemen, No rapporteur was drawn up by the designated Economic Committee. It is now up to the Members to speak within the time-frame on the agenda. First, I give the floor to Congressman Mihály Witzmann of the Fidesz section.
u2016-05-23-257	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, We have here a bill amending certain laws concerning the financial intermediary system, the general debate of which was already held on 27 April, and the detailed debate, as we have heard before, was already carried out by the Economic Committee on 5 May, during which the Committee also made use of the submission of an amendment. Moreover, the legislative package covers a total of 16 laws, according to which, among other things, the laws of credit institutions, capital markets, insurance and pension funds are amended, but the provisions of the National Bank of Hungary also change. As I pointed out in the general parliamentary debate of 27 April, several points of the motion are primarily aimed at transferring Regulation (EU) No 596/2014 into the Hungarian legal order, which will enter into force on 3 July 2016. According to the proposed amendment, the property insurance fee for real estate covered by a mortgage loan is excluded, inter alia, from the fees to be taken into account in the calculation of the APR ceiling. In addition, it is important to mention that, at its meeting last week, the Legislative Committee also expressed an intention to amend the bill before us, of which I would like to highlight only the most important ones. The motion contains provisions which are set out in the Act. are linked to the amendment that the property should also have a separate pledge for the benefit of financial institutions, and that the already created ancillary mortgage rights and separate pledges can be converted into a separate pledge. The proposal also provides for aspects relating to the establishment of a good business reputation, as well as the introduction and circulation of stock exchanges. Another important provision of the motion is that, in order to obtain more favourable borrowings for consumers, the consumer should be able to transfer to the creditor claims on the insurance amount resulting from the life insurance contract he has concluded in connection with the credit agreement or the property insurance contract for the underlying property as collateral. The submission also clarifies the 1993 XCVI on voluntary mutual insurance institutions. Law, which provides for several elements of guarantee rules - cross-border elements, right of termination and the rest - in the context of transfer of stocks. Ladies and gentlemen, I believe that the legislative amendments listed above can make an adequate contribution to the more efficient and transparent functioning of the financial intermediary system, which is why I ask my fellow Members to support T/10309 with their votes in tomorrow's decision-making process. the adoption of bill No 1. Thank you for listening. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2016-05-23-258	I now give the floor to Congressman István Józsa.
u2016-05-23-259	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, This proposal was essentially launched with a view to harmonisation of EU legislation. The aim of the bill is to review a number of elements of the financial intermediary regime and to transpose several EU acts into domestic law. To this end, the proposal amends the legislation on the area of credit institutions, capital markets, insurance and pension funds, and the Act on the National Bank of Hungary and its supervisory functioning is also changing again. Although most of the proposal is about amendments in line with EU directives, it contains a lot of technical amendments and introduces special changes to our financial laws, while hiding in this big package of amendments to 16 laws, many interesting things are being pulled over; for example, the amendment of the credit institution law, which immediately records the benefit of a group. The proposal amends the credit market law so that the financial institution could, in a business manner, not only carry out the mediation of Community aid - a financial institution - as now, but also directly expand the scope of its activities through State aid. This becomes particularly interesting in the light of the fact that the Hungarian Development Bank concluded a contract on 26 April 2016 with a so-called winning consortium, consisting of FHB Commercial Bank Zrt., Magyar Takarékzeti Bank Zrt., B3 TAKAREK Cooperative and Budapest Bank Zrt. This consortium has obtained a public procurement aimed at opening and operating MFB points which also provide State aid. Therefore, the consortium obtained public procurement by not being able to carry out the objective they had undertaken, the transmission of State aid under the rules in force at that time. What does God do? Now comes this bill, which you have submitted and which is likely to adopt, and this consortium can immediately carry out not only EU but also State aid. My dear fellow Members, this is at least naughty. So when you talk about good business reputation and trust in banks, then such mischief may not confirm it. In the area of insurance, the ethical life insurance concept for unit-linked and mixed life insurance is not a recommendation or regulation of the MNB, but a statutory change in the regulation of life insurance, I add, in a positive direction. Transparency is facilitated by the proposal requiring insurers to indicate exactly what the cost of the contract is being spent on. [[18.40]] This passage was a little vague earlier, and now, after the amendment, this means that the costs of life insurance will also be indirectly limited, although a substantial change can only be made in the case of a few very expensive products, and most of the insurances are not expected to be significantly cheaper. The further tightening of private pension funds is interesting, so to speak, in the interest of insured people. In fact, the way in which the 100 million HUF own activity reserve has been created will be transformed in several steps. Each of them has a logical defence basis, but basically sample calculations show that the mandatory reserve base of HUF 100 million will double, even though it is very difficult to meet the current level of private pension funds that are still in operation. Thus, the objective is clearly that, with the difficulties in operating conditions, such funds should cease to exist, and their savings of a hundred billion-dollar magnitude should be included in the central fund, which, as has been said here at the time of the 3 thousand billion einstands of private pension funds, you will protect, but no one knows where you are now. There is a very interesting amendment to the operation and procedures of the National Bank and the Stock Exchange and in the present situation. The proposal will allow the stock exchange to require confirmation of good business reputation from companies already on the stock exchange or from those who want to enter it in the future. However, how the condition is met will no longer be governed by law, but the stock exchange will decide as it wishes. This is strange because the Hungarian National Bank recently acquired the right of the Budapest Stock Exchange, and if we are talking about a good business reputation, then what György Matolcsy did with the distribution of 266 billion, the placement of public money to the foundations, and then the distribution of most of it for private purposes, partly for family purposes, is not going to strengthen, let's say, a good business reputation from a distance, and he will determine the rules under which the Budapest Stock Exchange will decide what the companies on the stock exchange have to fulfil in order to guarantee their reputation. As a minor positive, it is worth noting that this proposal requires financial market participants to receive calls from customers within a reasonable time, preferably within five minutes. Interestingly, however, this does not apply to public authorities on the financial market, so if someone wants to call in to supervise the National Bank, they don't have to receive them in five minutes, they just want to force market players, the competition players, to do so, which is very right. It would be good if the Hungarian National Bank considered this mandatory for itself. The amendment to the credit institution law shows that the government decides in advance who can win, which groups it favors, and then adjusts their plans, their laws. This may exhaust the illegal advantage provided by the legislation, i.e. the conditions of the crime, or at least the shadow of corruption. The plans for private pension funds are also a cause for concern, as should the possibility of stock exchange regulation be defined by Parliament here at a legislative level. In view of all these changes, the MSZP faction cannot support this proposal, not because of the harmonisation of EU law, but because of the other loopholes wrapped in it. Thank you, Mr. President.
u2016-05-23-260	I'll ask if anyone else wants to comment on the debate. [[No one's reporting.]] I do not see a candidate, so today's debate is closed. I'll ask the author, Agnes Hornung, if you'd like to comment. [[Agnes Hornung on Anna's signal:]] You have the floor, Madam Secretary.
u2016-05-23-261	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I would just like to respond briefly to what has been said. I can say with complete peace of mind that this bill actually serves positive purposes. On the one hand, amendments to the Tpt. amendment were made to facilitate lending promotion. Ethical insurance rules help to clarify customer protection provisions, show that customers who make insurance can make these decisions with the right information and based on the right basis. In the case of the stock exchange, we are not dealing with the issue of ownership, but we are dealing with the fact that we want to boost the stock market itself, and we are again trying to promote it from a market or technical point of view. These amendments, which are contained in this bill, are essentially aimed at promoting SME lending, i.e. allowing small and medium-sized enterprises to obtain loans along different, already wider loan portfolios, i.e. not only to borrow, but also possibly to use capital financing. These are barriers that many international institutions have expressed against Hungary as criticism, so we have tried to respond to them. The amendments to pension insurance and voluntary pension funds serve the purpose of precisely helping these funds to operate, so that those who may still have their own savings can make use of it and use it. I think so, and that is why I would like to ask the Honourable Parliament to support this bill with its votes in the final vote, because these are technical amendments which serve both to facilitate lending and to promote clean regulation and to harmonise EU legislation. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-05-23-262	Dear Parliament, The decision will take place on tomorrow's meeting. Next up is the 2011 CLXXXIX on the local governments of Hungary. Commission reports submitted to the bill amending the Act and discussion of the summarised amendment proposal. Government referral T/10306. The Commission's non-autonomous texts are available on the Parliament's IT network. In the debate, the position of the Legislative Committee and the formulated minority opinion will be presented in a 15-minute time frame. I give the floor to Imre Vas, rapporteur of the committee.
u2016-05-23-263	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, I inform the National Assembly that the Legislative Committee discussed the 2011 CLXXXIX on the local governments of Hungary on 19 May. T/10306. The Commission submitted a proposal for amendment and a summary report with 22 votes in favour and 9 negative votes against. The summarised amendment contains the technical clarifications of the Judicial Committee and the legislative committee's own proposals on the one hand, but does not include Jobbik's proposal that would make the subject of a regulated issue fundamental. As a result of the Fundamental Law, the rules on the IT system for municipalities clearly require a simple majority, as in the law currently in force, these rules are not fundamental, so it can be concluded that the current amendment cannot be. In this respect, no criticism was raised when the law in force was adopted, so this proposal was unjustified and unfounded in the view of the majority. With regard to the TAB's own motion, I would like to point out that it is true for both the main elements of the local government ASP system that some of the elements they contain cannot be specified in detail in taxatically. [[18.50]] As regards professional systems, since they merely serve to provide IT support for the performance of existing municipal tasks, there is no need to lay down specific data management rules, the document management system is subject to sectoral rules on document management systems and the same applies to other professional systems. The local government repository shall contain elements which constitute data of general interest, so that the scope of such data, as there is no need for a specific legal basis for data processing, is also not justified in law. The local government repository does not process personal data or data considered as tax secrets, so there is no need to regulate data processing at a legal level. The amending proposal introduces this principle in the bill. Finally, I would like to draw the attention of my fellow Members to the fact that putting the technical achievements of this era into the service of the public administration is not only an opportunity, but also a fundamental obligation. I am convinced that the bill before us will make municipal administration more transparent and efficient, and I therefore ask you to support the bill. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-05-23-264	The minority opinion will now be presented within a seven-minute timeframe. I give the floor to Congressman Dessert.
u2016-05-23-265	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, At the meeting of the Legislative Committee, the opinion of the opposition, i.e. the minority, was very strongly emphasised that the current majority of governments would like to amend a two-thirds law by a simple majority law, and in this connection it was suggested that the amendment of the granite-solid Fundamental Law in relation to the law is not possible, according to our judgement and the minority opinion. It is possible to do this legal, it is possible to embellish, Article 31 (3) of the Fundamental Law states: "The rules governing local governments are laid down by a fundamental law. What we are talking about now is, in effect, putting in place a mandatory IT system in all the governments of the country. What if it's not a rule? And if we are talking about rules, I have just quoted Article 31 of the Fundamental Law, which clearly states what this is about, and it can be concluded directly from this wording, so that a law of practically two-thirds is necessary in order to change this and to define this task for local authorities. On the basis of the bill, it is planned that no one - I do not know that any municipality has requested this - and that no system of virtually public haters should be put in place for all municipalities on a compulsory basis. We hope that this proposal will not pass through a Constitutional Court giving itself something. In the last few decades, the nearly 3200 municipalities in the country have developed the local IT system very well, they have been able to operate well, there is a functioning system in the country, the municipalities have developed it according to their specific local needs, and they have also been able to provide data, as far as I know, fully, to the Ministry of the Interior. So, in practice, we can say that there is no justification and no reason to change this established practice. It is worth reading the justification of the bill. The explanatory statement states that this is necessary to prevent the indebtedness of the municipalities, which is a rather interesting justification, probably does not correspond to reality, because the municipalities did not owe debt, and the Minister of Interior himself drew attention to it during a briefing. At the same time, according to my information, it has now been established for many years that loans can only be granted by local governments with government permission. If it has been realized that the municipalities have been indebted to this extent, then it is clearly a government error, and then the government must find out who is responsible for this. At the same time, it has also been expressed that this system will obviously not be able to meet all local government needs. I can't imagine the Ministry of the Interior where they could handle the same system of problems that, say, appear on a Tower wand and what, say, the capital of XIII. in the vicinity of the region. Obviously, something else is needed. It was a minority opinion that the reason for this change was not understandable. It is clear that they want to spend a lot of EU money on virtually a bunch of useless products. As a matter of question, when the government prepared this, who was consulted in this regard, what survey preceded the system to be put in place. As far as we know, that didn't happen. What we do see, however, is that at government level, various large systems have been developed over the past period, and these large systems are a reflection of what is expected in the coming period. One of these classic, big consolidated systems was the KLIK, and I wouldn't go into it too much: the KLIK proved its own incompetence, even though it was a forced story. The other is the so-called SÉDR system for building, which is still smiled by everyone who has to use it, but this was the electoral system, and such a special system was created for civil matters. It is interesting that it was named by the civil servants themselves, those working in this area: they shortened it to SZ.A.R. system, this is the computer registry system. If you say that in one word, what I've just said, it'll give you a sense of how much this thing can work. Here is the KIRA system, which was called for the salaries and other benefits of civil servants and civil servants. We lived together when civil servants and civil servants were either not paid, or when they were paid much later, we saw the consequences: no one received as much as he was due, errors occurred in bulk. It was these four or five systems that you have centralised over the past year, and we see how effective they all are. The problem is, this system you're trying to figure out right now is a more complex system. The result may be that the entire municipal system is crushed, and I think this is the unconfessed goal: the breakdown of the municipal system, the creation of the local will, but even the local idea must be eliminated, since this is the first point of the material that has been published, but which has been denied by the Ministry of the Interior, which has already been discussed in this regard. The interesting thing is, you didn't find any allies with this material. I don't know any local government alliance that would support this proposal. At the same time, discussions were held, and the TAB also found out, as the representatives of the public organisations with whom such consultations were held, and then they discussed it in themselves, they agreed well with themselves, but no one asked the municipalities, the stakeholders, and therefore the minority considered this bill unacceptable. Thank you, Mr. President.
u2016-05-23-266	I'll ask Mr. Secretary of State Tibor Pogácsás if he wants to comment now. [[On the sign of Tibor Scones:]] He doesn't want to. Dear Parliament, The designated judicial committee did not draft a rapporteur, so now the speeches will be held by its representatives. First, I give the floor to Congresswoman Loránt Hegedűs.
u2016-05-23-267	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, If the aim of the ASP system was only standardisation, control, then we could even support it, but we know that is not the case. This is a political instrument, and as a political instrument, we are clearly rejecting it in its entirety. As has already been said here by our fellow Member Dezső Incredible, yes, there have been various softwares that have helped local government work, but much more - yes, there is a question of how much helped or not - different software has been used by the municipalities. I am only saying this because it has come to light in our fellow Member Vas Imre that this would be the first technical instrument to support the local government system in this way, in line with the achievements of the era. No! Here we have just said 4-5, and I can list 14 other systems, which are in part already centralized. [[19.00]] For example, such is the PTR social register, instead of which the municipalities are forced to use WinSoct, because it is so bad, the DOKK financial system, instead of which they use the EPER system, because the central is so bad, the KGR budget report is also said to be rejected, and so on, I could still classify it for a long time, but a few should be allowed. There are replacements for the Self-Rating, Katawin Cadastral, FOKA, CSTINFO, which is the social registry system of the MAK and so on, there are a lot of other central software used by the municipalities. Therefore, a kind of standardisation would indeed be necessary, but not in the way and not for the reason that the ASP system will be introduced. In the past, we've come up with a certain secret material that's been released to the public. I have met this secret material myself, and to this day no one has denied it, on the one hand, and no one has accepted who wrote it. Now is the time, the opportunity, Mr. Secretary of State, to tell us who wrote this particular piece of paper. Did you or the minister Lazarus write this material? I can only imagine the Prime Minister's Office ordering this stuff. I am not sure at all that the order of the ASP came from the Ministry of Interior, to be more precise, the order of this particular background study. However, it is very interesting what this particular background material contains. For example, as regards the introduction of the ASP, it is here that it is actually a political instrument, what order should be used. Firstly, local decision-makers must be put in a position where they feel it is necessary and beneficial to introduce it, and they must be convinced that they must force the use of it through the offices. What kind of tool are you going to use for this? How are you going to convince the city leaders? Then there will be official standardisation, uploading data, then building control and financial counter-proposal, and then, as the material puts it, strictly after the elections in 2018, the centralization of the office and the massive closure of the offices. The material says that small and medium-sized offices will have to be closed for this reason, I think that this is what the five thousand members of the municipal law, i.e. the self-government office, could only be for settlements above 5 thousand people. At the same time, they intend to expand the government windows by raising the tasks they perform from the current 255 tasks by 2000 and the labour force thus released, and the cynicism that you are planning to fire 5 to 10 thousand civil servants will be called liberating workers and then placed in the business sphere. The question arises, and the material itself states that if this expertise that they have acquired there is not marketable, because they can only use it in local governments and in official work, then in what business sphere you will want to place these workers. Furthermore, the material states that the essence of the ASP is to eliminate corruption on the spot. Please tell me what kind of corruption there is in small municipalities. Corruption is where there is money, but these small municipalities live day by day. There is no financial opportunity here, there is no possibility of corruption. There is no money to be stolen, in short and in Hungarian. I ask the Honourable Secretary of State to state, here and now, whether it is true that they want to close the offices with their mass. Tell me how many offices are going to be closed, how many official employees are going to be dismissed, because that's what this bill is really about. Thank you for listening. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2016-05-23-268	I now give the floor to Congressman Sallai R. Benedek.
u2016-05-23-269	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Our Fraction has examined the possible effects of this legislative amendment proposal, and we see it implementing an unjustified local government data centralisation which fundamentally violates the European municipal charter, which would require the autonomous provision and free processing of local governments in its articles. At the moment, in the context of such data centralisation, local authorities virtually cease to be data controllers, and as a result, this can create an unblessed state that cannot implement local governance and e-government principles. As a result, we do not see much support for this direction, since the reappearance and continuous replacement of such IT systems appears to be basically one of the possible means of draining different sources, since nothing else happens but the development of systems with new and new, very expensive software that are increasingly difficult to use. Local authorities have local knowledge, local knowledge, local applicability, what they can handle, and should retain the right for local authorities to decide on this, and should retain the opportunity to maintain the local government in Hungary. Overall, between the arguments that we have heard, what our fellow Member Vas has said, there is not one argument among those which could be accepted, and my better fellow Member so fundamentally refuted the allegations that would have shown the suitability for this system to function. Accordingly, our faction does not support the proposal. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2016-05-23-270	I now give the floor to Congressman Gergely Bárándy.
u2016-05-23-271	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Indeed, what must be seen here behind this proposal is that it is not a bill on its own, but certainly, and is now increasingly part of a longer and more detailed plan, as can be seen from the leaked document. We have been used to this, and I have repeatedly said that Fidesz has two Pavlovi reflexes here in Parliament: one is centralization, the other is the theft, and at best the centralized theft. This bill before us is not about anything else. Ladies and gentlemen, If we look at the justification for this proposal, more people have spoken about it, I would like to repeat it once again: the debt of municipalities. First of all, what the Minister said and quoted by my trusted fellow Member, I would not like to repeat who those who are indebted to us, but what we know is that without government permission, there is no municipality that can be indebted. Then I would like to ask you, Mr Secretary of State, if you have given me permission for these municipalities to be indebted. Because if that's the case, it's your fault, and it's not the IT system that needs to be renewed, but you have to resign, and your boss, too, if that's the case. Are you saying, Mr. Secretary, that it's because of the local government's debt? Because if it is, it has to be the result. If that is not the case, Mr State Secretary, then we would be very curious to know what the real reason for introducing this new IT system is. So, as they say, it's bad and it's bad. However, if we are already here in Parliament, then the justification for the legislative proposals should be reflected in reality. I understand that this long-term plan cannot be said. You know, Mr. Secretary, the next item on the agenda is a very similar situation. We've known this for the past six or seven years, what your methods are. They're slowly implementing centralization. This was also the case when, a year ago, we were discussing it here in Parliament, and here the next agenda will be about why only the National University of Public Service will be able to conduct State Science education. And now it turns out that because they want to monopolise certain things here in education, and in the public sector, they only want to hire people who graduated from the National Public Service or who didn't, they have to be forced to be students in this institution. That is all there is to it, ladies and gentlemen, we will see the continuation of this bill in seconds. This is actually the preparation of a centralization, nothing else. Dear Secretary of State, You and I have been sitting here in Parliament for the last six years. You could see precisely that you have tried centralization in all areas. Most of them succeeded, either by making the system so ordered under the government, or by being appointed by the government, who we had chosen earlier, and who, as other versions of B, put people at the head of independent state bodies who, together with the Prime Minister, laugh in fours in the soccer VIP box. That's the other version. There are two areas in which they have a relatively broken knife, this court system, even though they have tried it there, and a little bit by the municipalities. [[19.10]] It was not possible to achieve full centralization there. Well, it seems that in this cycle, you've been asked to try to get this under the wheel. The purpose of this proposal is none other than this. And I sincerely hope that the Secretary of State will stand up and disprove all these in detail. But, Mr Secretary, the answers you usually give are certainly quite similar to each other: you never answer these points, and I do not expect that to happen now. [[Interview from the benches of the MSZP: That's right!]] Thank you very much.
u2016-05-23-272	I now give the floor to Congressman Csaba Gyüre.
u2016-05-23-273	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, Perhaps the most important reason we should be looking at here is whether this new bill is supported by local government associations, local government interest organisations. Clearly, no one is in favour of this proposal. I wonder why they don't support him. If it's not in their interest, they don't want it, if it's not good for them, then why force it on them? When the debate was heard, the rapporteur said that it was entirely voluntary to enter this debate. And I'd say, if this were a volunteer, we'd say you can stand by it with your full chest width. The municipality that undertakes to enter, the one that doesn't, it doesn't, and then, based on the experience of three years, it could be decided that, wow, it's a really good system, then the others will volunteer, because it will really make their work easier, it will be much better, it will be faster, it will get better data, it will be better to attach it back and forth, it's much better, it's better, wow, how much better those municipalities will be - if I say so, it'll be acceptable. But it is mandatory to force this on the municipalities who all protest against it and do not see the benefits of it, well, that is quite strange, I think. It came up, my fellow Member, Imre Vas, spoke about the two-thirds of the law and its rebuttal. In our view, it is quite clear, and the Member before me has also said, why this law is two-thirds. Clearly, as far as the municipal law is concerned, this law is, in our view, two-thirds. It doesn't matter which paragraph we insert it into, whether the paragraph we are putting the amendment into now is two-thirds, whether it is fundamental or not, it must be judged according to its content, and according to its content it is a two-thirds law, a fundamental law. By a simple majority, this cannot be changed in our view. If this is to happen, I think that the Constitutional Court will in any case say the decisive word on this issue. The problem is primarily the issue of volunteering and the lack of volunteering and, on the other hand, this kind of centralisation, which has already been said here, is that it is the KLIK-like organisation that would be created here above the municipalities. And right here is the KLIK, which has just failed at all levels in the country, and I don't think there should be another organization like this. And what Fidesz has done to the municipalities in the last six years is the complete and gradual emptying of the Hungarian local government, the emptying of the content. Everything that was behind the municipalities, I think, gives the municipalities the right to have the criticism of your proposal now that they are entitled to this system, which they do not want. And then I didn't talk about it, and I won't have much time to say that this ASP system has already been implemented experimentally, and there have been reports of particularly negative experiences by those involved. What would be the aim, in the explanatory statement of the law, is that it facilitates and accelerates the transmission of local government data and applications, just as everyone reported that it would make them fundamentally difficult, caused a very serious increase in the burden of labour, resulted in additional paperwork, could not comply with the deadlines when applying it, they had to apply several programmes. This shows, therefore, that this system has not worked. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2016-05-23-274	I am asking my fellow Members if anyone else would like to comment on the debate. [[No one's reporting.]] I do not see a candidate, so the debate is closed. I'll ask the Secretary of State if he'd like to comment. [[For signal:]] Secretary Tibor Pogácsás has the floor.
u2016-05-23-275	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to point out at the outset that I do not wish to argue with a document which is not a document to me, since it has no signature, no time of origin. By the way, there are quite a few of the items mentioned by the Member, which in itself shows that there is no basis for the document or the text, because if the government is working in the windows, the administration of the state is confused with the five municipal items, the system used by the municipalities, which is also included in the ASP, it can be seen that the two things are not in line with each other, because they are completely different. Congressman Gyüre has said that the government has done nothing for the municipalities in the last six years. I think that between 2003 and 2009-10 there has been a financial impossibility and elimination of municipalities and the abolition of freedom of choice. If the Member looks at the audit of this period by the State Court of Auditors, the opinion submitted to the budget, the State Audit Office has warned each year that the municipalities have received new tasks without the State having attached the budgetary resources to this. In 2009-10, the State Audit Office wrote that in the previous 5-6 years the state had withdrawn some HUF 1600 billion from the local government sector, while the tasks were being carried out. Compared to this, after 2010, the consolidation of municipalities, the take-over of debt and the financial return of municipalities to their freedom of decision were started. The development and launch of the ASP system started in 2011 with 55 municipalities in Central Hungary. 55 Central-Hungarian municipalities participated in the process, the second phase of which will be the next part of the continuation of the ASP programme. At the moment, in addition to 55 municipalities, more than 60 municipalities have joined the programme. They volunteered, so it is more than a hundred municipalities that apply all or part of the ASP programme. There have been various programs, different software, some of which have nothing to do with the ASP program. There hasn't been before, or now, but Congresswoman Violin has mentioned two, which I think is worth mentioning. For example, it relates to the local tax. Indeed, the tax system that exists can be used virtually barely or very difficult. There's a tax package within the ASP program. There are five software packages, five large packages to facilitate the management of municipalities and the reporting obligations of municipalities in the ASP system. One of them is the transmitter. The other is the cadastral, because I think everyone can see that the municipalities themselves can see that the cadastral, within the framework of the register of assets, there are very serious shortcomings in the municipalities. And this ASP system will also provide a solution to this. It has been said that a new system and a new organization will be created. If a person has read through the bill, he must have recognized or understood that no new system is being created here, no new powers are being deployed, as the Treasury has collected these data and the Treasury has been required to provide these data. A number of dozens of information on budgets, revenues and accounts should be provided annually to municipalities on the amounts received in the task financing or in the normative financing. So they've had to get to the Treasury. Not primarily to the Ministry of the Interior, as the data goes to the Treasury. We also know that this year there are several or several dozen municipalities that could not receive state funding, because they could not meet their financial reporting obligation by deadline, so this does not show that all these processes are going perfectly. [[19.20]] In addition, more than 20 types of management software are used by municipalities. There is software that only a few municipalities use, and there are software that several municipalities use. And the reference to the Treasury also comes in several times to the fact that they cannot do the closing account, for example, because the service provider with whom they are contracted to maintain the software could not carry out the current task of reviewing the software for time. So there are a number of problems that make it difficult to operate on a daily basis. Five elements of the ASP programme, once again, do not create any new powers, no new control system. It intends to provide a unified, transparent system to all municipalities, as I have just said, in which at the moment more than a hundred municipalities are involved. The question of debt must be addressed, and this is what Minister said when he said that the question of why the debt of municipal companies has suddenly increased. The precise structure and examination of this is obviously partly due to the fact that they are companies, obviously because of the increase in municipal corporate debts before the law was amended, we do not see it today. It is certain that the structure of these debts can also be seen with a single transmission. By the way, the repository system itself does not only mean that the municipalities fulfil their annual accounts, their reporting obligations through it, but can also provide or give the government in the longer term a great deal of assistance, in an exact way, in a comparable way, and in a much simpler way than on a paper basis, to examine how a task is provided, and the amount of resources to be allocated to a given task, and the resources to be managed by the municipalities. Therefore, this could also greatly contribute to the financing of tasks and to the planning of state aid for municipal tasks and, where appropriate, to the necessary correction. I do not wish to comment again on the two-thirds, not two-thirds; Mr Vas Imre also summarized the opinion of the government. As regards the argument that no one has asked for this system or that it has not been in agreement with the municipalities, I repeat once again that the development of this system has started with 55 municipalities and is currently being used by more than a hundred municipalities. We've been negotiating with the municipal associations. In fact, there has been debate and debate with local government associations on a number of issues. And part of the question is that, in the municipalities where this system is or has been operating, it can actually cause or cause additional tasks, naturally arising from what Mr Gyüre said precludes the proposal to create a duality, to have one of these, and to have one of them, because there are two ways to perform several accounts when multiple accounting systems are applied simultaneously by the municipalities. I think it can be seen that if the State accepts the request for data in a particular structure, who conducts it differently, the data must be converted, so it is clearly displayed with an additional task, and it has indeed hit the municipalities involved in the pilot programme. Moreover, the introduction of ASP in municipalities, especially the metropolitan districts, county municipalities, where the management of the municipality is much more complex and complex, such as municipal companies, has been linked to the financial software used by the municipality, the management software, and they are logically, and in this they are right, my fellow Members, it would not be right to introduce the management software offered by the ASP, which is sufficient in itself for the majority of the municipalities, and there is a legal requirement that, by means of an interface, the reporting required to provide the annual reports or the data can be carried out by the municipalities through an interface. Once again, ladies and gentlemen, no new tasks will be imposed on the municipalities, no new powers will be deployed, so I ask you to support the bill. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of Fidesz.]]
u2016-05-23-276	Ladies and gentlemen, The decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting. The Commission's reports on the bill on state officials and the summary amendment will be discussed. Government referral T/10267. The Commission's non-autonomous texts are available on the Parliament's IT network. First, the position of the Legislative Committee and the formulated minority opinion will be presented in the debate. I give the floor again to Imre Vas, rapporteur of the committee.
u2016-05-23-277	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, I would like to inform the Parliament that the Legislative Committee discussed the T/10267 on state officials on 19 May. The Committee presented a proposal for amendment and a summary report with 20 votes in favour, 2 against and 2 abstentions. The summarised amendment includes, on the one hand, technical amendments to the Judicial Committee, as well as the legislative committee's own proposals, which revise the committee proposal in six points, as well as the clarification of our fellow Member Bárándy's comments at the committee meeting. At the committee meeting, the biggest debate was not what was included in the summary amendment proposal, but what was not included: the amendment in paragraph 7 of the Judicial Committee, which would have allowed legal examiners to be exempted from the training obligation imposed on managers. This is the crucial part of this item on the agenda of the Committee's meeting, and it is rarely the case, but the speeches did not take place according to who is sitting in which faction, but the lawyers' representatives were practically arguing with non-jurist representatives. Unfortunately, however, because of this long debate, it has not been mentioned what is really the essence of this law. Because the rules on training obligations are important, but this is only a matter of detail, because the essence of the bill is that it provides a basis for a 30-50 percent wage increase for public officials. On the one hand, it will create requirements on the part of citizens for the functioning of the public administration, and it will be a serious tribute to public officials. The proposal is closely integrated in the State Reform Programme and is designed to create an efficient public administration. I ask you to vote in favour of the adoption of the bill. Thank you for listening.
u2016-05-23-278	The minority opinion will now be presented. I give the floor to Congressman Gergely Bárándy.
u2016-05-23-279	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, As my fellow Member Vas Imre said, a rather interesting and in many ways unusual debate arose at the meeting of the Legislative Committee on the agenda under discussion. The debate was interesting for several reasons. Firstly, as Imre Vas indicated, the debate was not divided by factions, as is usually the case, but, in many cases, opposition and pro-government representatives also agreed with each other, especially - and what Imre Vas said I can support here - as regards the educational, training and provisions of the proposal. In fact, it can be said that the debate in the Judicial Committee and the general debate in the Parliament were being repeated in the Legislative Committee, with so much difference that we have already seen proposals for amendments, in which there has been a specific conflict between the government and the pro-government authors. [[19.30]] I also note that, if it is possible, if you would like to disclose inside information, if my fellow Member Mr Vas understands the vote correctly, you will not vote off your own proposal. And if you hadn't voted off your own proposal, then this would have been finally adopted by the committee, this is the ominous proposal that the debate may have been about in the greatest extent. Indeed, the arguments that have been repeated, as I said, in the general debate, namely that the concept of an examination or an examination of the state, are actually intended to replace the administrative exam with a certain type of examination. It has been mentioned that the value of the exam and the exam, if you like, will be a little decrepit when this proposal is adopted. It has also been mentioned that it is unfortunate that monopolised forms of training are being developed and that the scope of these will be extended by adopting the proposal. First of all, what has been mentioned is that we need to train those who do not have the right knowledge, and here the proposal also wants to train people, professionals, who have the type of knowledge, according to a large part of the speakers there, whether they are pro-government or opposition, otherwise we have it. It has also been mentioned, and I would like to emphasise this very strongly, that in the world of science, one, I can say, is making any theory mandatory - and here I deliberately use a strong term - indeed, it is the dictatorship's own. When universities are not free to teach certain disciplines in the spirit and subjective way they want to, but must do so on the basis of an approach and on the basis of a compulsory curriculum, it is not typical of the educational and scientific traditions of democratic states. This is indeed the spirit of dictatorship and the Middle Ages, I can say. If I add, even in the light of today and the past few days, that this is not a unique story; now it seems, at least according to the opinion of a curator, Csaba Lentner that the foundations of the Hungarian National Bank are also intended to be used, if you like, to introduce the Matolcsyzmus in the administration. For this purpose, 13 billion forints have been allocated to the Kecskemét educational centre. And here we are talking about, and I do not want to compare these two here, because at the University of Public Service, there are indeed a lot of excellent teachers teaching, and I do not think that, let us say, in the legal field or in the field of state science, a similar unparalleled theory would be centralised as Matolcsy's ideas in the field of economics. I can say, however, that making any theory and any thoughtfulness mandatory is not right. This was also a subject at the Legislative Committee meeting for a relatively long time. I would also like to say that there are quite few topics where one has so much coordination. I can say again, of course, based on corridor discussions, that I did this not only, but also by pro-government prominent representatives, where one consults with so many stakeholders, on a high level, with a higher education leader, and I have done this, and let me say that many sides, not only on the side where they are offended, were buyers of certain criticisms, on the side where, once again, the injured party is not standing. Compared to this, we have seen that for some strange reason, not only opposition representatives who have done so, but also pro-government representatives have not been able to achieve anything, i.e. nothing. They couldn't make any changes to this system. The question remains now, who is in the best interest, which political leader is likely to be called János Lázár, this has not been revealed in the debate, whose interest it is in, and who has the opportunity to set up such a system in the face of virtually everyone's opinions. I will give my further thoughts in a normal speech. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[Anita Herring claps.]]
u2016-05-23-280	I will ask the rapporteur, Mr Zoltán Kovács, if he wishes to comment on the debate at the moment. [[For signal:]] It says yes. You have the floor.
u2016-05-23-281	Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, The Government supports the single proposal, its technical and substantive proposals. [[Dr. Imre Vas applauds.]]
u2016-05-23-282	Thank you. The designated Judicial Committee did not draft a rapporteur, so now the speeches will be held by its representatives. In this context, I give the floor first to Congressman Csaba Gyüre.
u2016-05-23-283	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, Well, basically, we agree that the law on civil servants will be passed before us, but we disagree with a lot of things that are in this and also with its basic concept. First of all, because this draft law has already been in a completely different form of public opinion, it has gone through the organisations that have commented on it, and then, as far as we know, a completely new kind of law has been introduced, rather than a draft law negotiated with trade unions and representative organisations. This also leads to problems, precisely the changes that have been agreed with the representative organisations, have changed. What's the most important thing? There hasn't been a wage arrangement in the civil servants' sector in a long time, which is a problem, in itself. But the fact that he was under the bottom of the frog before, pardon the expression, the wages of municipal workers, the wages of civil servants, unfortunately, is a very big problem, especially when these municipal workers or public service workers only had secondary education. In many cases, this meant that they were paid around the minimum wage and received the guaranteed minimum wage. They practically didn't have a proper system of advancement. So we agree that it was absolutely necessary to touch this law. But did you have to touch it like that? Our fundamental problem with this is that this law makes a fundamental distinction between a civil servant and a civil servant in the future. Civil servants who have been paid the same salary for 20 years, for 25 years, on the basis of the same principles, had to carry out their duties in the same way, and then perform their duties in the same way now, but will not receive the remuneration on the same principles, they do not add. As Minister here has told us at the five-party meeting that the plan to distinguish civil servants in various ways and to have public officials, there will be municipal civil servants and private civil servants, it would not be a problem in itself if the government were to try to solve this problem at the same time, accepting that this is indeed an extra work. But not to distinguish it, not to distinguish it, not to put it in the wrong place, let's say, the municipal officials, in this case it would have been necessary. So, in order to distinguish them and highlight public officials, we now highlight civil servants working in district offices, and they get their wage development, they get the new law, the new system of advancement, and we cannot agree with that in any way. And will this new system of advancement be good? In our view, the former was much better, and this is the opinion of the representative bodies that the previous system of advancement was much better. In our view, it was more objective. Obviously, Minister and Minister of State said at the five-party meeting that they would like the workers to be inspired, their individual performance to be rewarded by the head of the workplace, so that he can prioritize them, distinguish between the worker and the worker. [[19.40]] However, this law opens up these frameworks so wide that it will fully transfer the system of civil servants' advancement into subjectivity, and this is, in any case, a very serious problem. Even if a worker will not be able to move forward for 20-22 years, he will not be able to make it to the final stage, as he divides the civil servant career into four stages, and within that he has the opportunity to determine the wages, but in a huge, very, very wide frame. This subjectivity may not be a good thing. If appropriate, it can be good for a suitable head of work, but it can also happen the other way around, so it will not be predictable for a civil servant, a state civil servant, to advance. If he has a picture - sorry for the expression - that he does not like his head of work, then for 20-25 years, he may not expect any kind of advancement, even if he is crucified at work, because he does not like his boss. All these are problems which make me think that this part of the law would in no way be eligible. So subjectivity is one of the most important of the flaws in the system of advancement, the fact that the system of advancement is only four lanes. A very important problem is that it does not distinguish between qualifications. Here, too, at the national level, it has been suggested how good it is to basicize the language exam. Yeah, but do we basically rent people who don't have a language exam? Why does someone have to take one, two, three language exams? Why does a worker have to get a second degree or a third degree when it's basically rented? That's all he's gonna pay for. There will be compulsory training, and there will be an additional education, another degree that you may be able to apply at your workplace, all of which will not be appreciated, as was possible on the website of the previous law, no longer. So I think it is precisely the opposite of the legislator or the proposer, as stated in the explanatory statement, that they should be better trained to be inspired to acquire higher qualifications. In my opinion, this law is not appropriate. It'll be exactly the reverse. This opportunity to walk in a place of decades, the lack of a system of advancement, is also a very important flaw in the law. I mentioned that the net wage of a secondary worker in the public sector is around HUF 60-70 thousand, and this is very ridiculous. We agree that the rate of increase should be 30 per cent or higher. However, it is absolutely important to emphasise that it should apply equally to all civil servants. This amendment, this kind of increase, a salary increase must be given to everyone. In this connection, my colleague Loránt Hegedűs and I have also tabled an amendment to the Budget Act on how to do this in the easiest and simplest way and to make it general: this is the amendment of the salary base. By the way, all stakeholder organisations have proposed this, either by a local government representative body or by a civil servants' representative body, either by increasing the number of multipliers or by increasing the basic salary, thus achieving an average wage improvement of 30 per cent. I understand that's what the previous proposals were about. The government has discussed this with the representative organisations, so we do not understand why a different kind of change has taken place. Yes, we understand that for budgetary reasons, but we cannot accept that others are not going to get it now, only a layer of civil servants will be able to get it. I would like to draw attention to one more problem - there are several problems with this law - and that is the termination of the relationship. I feel that this law is not suitable for providing adequate guarantees to civil servants that they can take advantage of the opportunities they would be entitled to in the event of termination of their legal relationship, and I am thinking primarily of remedies. Obviously, the judicial review is at your disposal, but I think that it is usually in violation of the interests of the worker and of a public service worker if, in some cases, the law does not even make it compulsory for him to submit his defence when he is terminated. The fundamental principle of the. audioatur et altera pars - let the other party also be heard - I think it is seriously violated in this law, when the legislation does not provide for this. Here we can talk about the fact that when the civil servant is transferred for six months, when there is work to be done in another workplace, there are no appropriate guarantee rules here, just as we see such fundamental problems with this law when we terminate the relationship. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2016-05-23-284	I now give the floor to Congressman Gergely Bárándy.
u2016-05-23-285	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, My fellow Member, Csaba Gyüre, approached the law from a very different point of view, and perhaps my fellow Member, Imre Vas, also complained that the trial took place in this narrow circle. I'd like to remember two things about this, or three things. One is, obviously, when presenting a minority opinion, you have to say what happened there, one. Two, I'm going to continue on the same subject, but for another reason. The other thing is that, indeed, the proposals put forward which would have greatly influenced or altered this law in other respects were not very much in the Commission's debates. By the way, the considerations that my fellow Member Gyüre has just said, repeating the general debate a little bit, the representatives of our group have already said in the general debate. I think that in the final debate, too, it is worth limiting what was really a topic, with the amendment proposals being discussed at committee meetings. That's why I'd stick to training. Moreover, it is because they are extremely important and meaningful, and I do not want to deny this for a moment, the provisions that are about something else compared to this, but these are issues of principle that go far beyond this bill. It reflects a kind of approach and attitude in higher education, which I think once again is significantly more important than how the specific provisions will be defined in this law. Allow me to add a few more points, which were also discussed at the committee meeting, but perhaps your rebuttal was not mentioned, because, if I remember correctly, Mr Balla used the word that a very strong legal lobby spoke on this issue. I think - and I may have said so at the committee meeting - that this does not fully cover reality, because, on the one hand, it is nothing but that those who have this knowledge, that is to say, a law university, are likely to see the absurdity of these proposals or this particular part of the proposal. In other words, it is no big wonder that it is the lawyers who are primarily speaking on this bill in this regard. The other is that it is a pity to suspect any personal reasons behind it, and I do not think that any member of the Legislative Committee would like to be in a district office or administrative office in the near future. So, probably no one spoke for their own good when they formulated their criticisms. It should also be noted that, by the way, two pro-government Members who have been accused of being, say, enemies of the University of Public Service have spoken as critics of the provisions. I remember when Minister Tibor Navracsics presented it, if I remember correctly, the law on it first. Minister Navracsics was Minister of State for Justice, Róbert Répássy, who, by the way, criticized this bill very hard. Likewise, and he himself may have said this in the same words, former Minister Hende, that he was a midwife at the establishment of the University of Public Service, but now at the committee meeting he expressed a very elegant and very delicate but clear criticism of the proposal. [[19.50]] So, if for no other reason, I think that the position of these professionals, which are obviously well-founded positions - and even pro-government positions - would have been worth considering more than that. The other thing I would like to highlight as a problem. So, how does the system work where I demand a higher level of qualifications and standards for those who are at a lower level in the hierarchy? How is it that, by the way, I require this skill in the staff and management of government offices, district offices, but let's say, in the ministry that oversees this whole system, I don't demand this kind of education from the leaders? Shouldn't it be the other way around that I'm demanding it first in the Ministry, and when I do, I'm going down a level? If something doesn't make sense, it certainly isn't, and some have noted a little more humorously that if Minister Lazarus so requires, he should pass at least one exam, or if he doesn't, then he will obviously be the first to complete this university, since he will surely be at one of the top of the administration. And I would also like to emphasise once again and put it on the table that there is no mention of anyone attacking a training system that is otherwise good and thoughtful, everyone talking about its indiscretion, and that it could otherwise be done well, it could be prescribed to professionals who do not have such qualifications, agricultural professionals, economists, and the rest; here, I think, that such a training could provide a plus and a positive one. And if I refer a little more back to the committee meeting, and here I would rather look at the arguments that have come up there for quite a long time, though it is time for you to repeat them and extend them, there is no one, but what - and perhaps that was said by former Secretary of State Répássy - will happen to the prosecutors and judges assigned to the Ministry if they extend the scope of this law to the Ministry? Because I've heard that this is probably the next step. I said it should have been the other way around, but that's too bad. So they're gonna have to do this, too? Let's just say, if a judge from the Mansion is called in to do, say, a codification work, then he has to do it, or, at the time, if there is a situation like civil law, that Professor Vékás went to the Ministry for a while and led the codification work of the Civil Code, would he have to take the same exams? So, I think, once again, that the proposal is far from thought-out, and I simply cannot understand that if such a, virtually virtually - I am talking about professionals - is a unanimous criticism of a proposal, then what the hell is the point of pushing it through with unchanged content in this way for political reasons. One thing I can promise you is that if I am still here in Parliament and there is any political change, one of the first laws we will change and which we will repeal. Thank you very much.
u2016-05-23-286	I am asking my fellow Members if anyone else would like to comment on the debate. [[There's no signal.]] I don't see a candidate. The debate is therefore closed. I will ask Mr Zoltán Kovács, State Secretary, if he wishes to comment. [[Dr. Zoltán Kovács nodds.]] You have the floor, Mr. Secretary, in about nine minutes.
u2016-05-23-287	Mr President, Dear fellow Members, This is the third time we have had the general debate. Although we should have talked about the legislative committee's proposal here, there were also a number of proposals that meant a comma or a technical amendment, and that is how it came to Parliament, which helped codification, but I think that is not the substance of the law. Not much has been said about the substance of the law, only the exam that must be, should not be, acquittal, not acquittal, this is the culmination of both the legislative committee debate and the content of the speeches here. I think this law is much more than that. Csaba Gyüre forgot to mention that his amendment proposal was accepted otherwise. So you are so excited about this subject that you have forgotten that there is finally an approved and accepted opposition amendment. So the government was constructive about the proposals, by the way. As a matter of fact, he's giving himself such an unacceptable role as a trade union protégé: I'm completely surprised. Because I am not surprised that when the socialist faction was sitting where you were now, in the first half of the two thousand years, and all the trade union functions were sitting here in Parliament, perhaps Comrade Pasternák, where Csaba Gyüre was now, and he was in the socialist faction, they agreed with each other, the union and the government. Now they're not in Parliament, which I think is a good thing. And I don't think they're the ones who write this bill, the bill is being submitted by the government. Despite all this, there were not narrow negotiations with the unions, but the so-called COFFEE and OKÉT had four times the law, but perhaps even more. Individual, I might say, we also held small group sessions with several trade unions from the EDDS. But, of course, we have not been able to accept the position of certain defenders of trade unions in the concept. A number of things happened, because there was a trade union and a ministerial meeting, where we went through the legislation from paragraph to paragraph. So I'm guessing there wasn't a lot of law to discuss. And there was also a multi-party discussion, which some might say happened ex post, but I think we have heard all the arguments and arguments here too. Overall, I would like to say that, if we are already having a general debate, the proposal is now being negotiated: that is not the point of this law. This is a completely new approach, adapted to the new administrative structure, the changed world, not to an obscene, virtually rigid system, but to the performance, the task, the job, who is working. This inevitably involves subjectivity, which is why managers have a great responsibility for how they deal with their employees in terms of benchmarking. But I wouldn't think that every leader is bad at the edge, and he's only subjectively giving his coworkers the wrong performance just to have to pay less wages. On the other hand, the main purpose of this bill is to ensure that those who work there have an average of 30-40-50 per cent for district officials, especially those who work with citizens, those on customer services, field workers, colleagues who work in the field, who are trying to help the needy under the most difficult circumstances, or even the very young through social services, or even the world of work, in employment departments or departments. So I think that we have started this law in the right place, because it does not stop here, next year the entire territorial administration will be subject to this law, and then, obviously, depending on the decision of the government and the decision of Parliament, it will be extended to other public bodies as well. I would like to thank you here for your fellow Members' activity, as 23 amendments have been included in the system. From this, as I mentioned, he took me in. [[Sándor Lezsák, vice-president of the Parliament takes the chair.]] [[20.00]] I think we should also reflect on what has been said here and what has not been said. There were also representatives in the Legislative Committee who were not lawyers, and they looked at the existence of a legal exam or not in this system in a completely different way. They thought, at least according to the ideas I could take there, that not the legal knowledge of legal work, which has been deepened by an expert in the field of legal work, was truly exciting in this system, but rather a training of state science or state management, which focuses not only on legal work, but also on the completion of a system of state leadership, which is much wider than legal work, which helps the work of a state official, who then practically as part of the administration, through management knowledge, through public finance, through management practice, who helps the work of the state executive power. Obviously, this is a big issue. The qualified lawyers, who I was sitting on the other side of the table, fought, so to speak, with the laymen, who are not lawyers, in this case. That's our position. And if I can respond funnyly to Mr Barándy's decision to abolish this law among the first: I think that when he becomes an interim president, he can do so in Parliament. [[Defiance.]] Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say what Csaba Gyüre referred to as the fact that for 20-25 years a worker is on the ground: he miscalculated, Congressman, this is 15 years tops. But by the way, anyone who sees that there's no way to move forward on this field is obviously going to be out of touch and looking for somewhere else to go. But we think that based on the wage increase, the performance-based system, it's all about staying on track, and lifelong learning, because the world is changing, the social conditions are changing, the new systems are changing. There must also be professional training in this, and, as I said, state management training is also important in the coming period. We believe that this brings forward this issue, which we call the state administration, and this does not only involve national public service university training; on the contrary, there are significant training institutions in Hungary, universities, even legal universities, which will carry out state science, social science and various training courses in cooperation with them in the organisation of the NEC. The best professors and the best performers will operate in this system. At times, some of my fellow Members have made bad comments about the NKE. I would like to say that of the nearly half a thousand teachers there, as far as state science is concerned, there are nearly 60 qualified instructors from 100 to a few instructors. This rating is not given by Parliament, it is not by the government, it is by science. And if science gives us that qualification, why not trust those instructors that they will teach our future or present colleagues properly? Finally, I would like to say that if there is only one point that is not acceptable to the fellow Members, the law - this is the case of the exam, which has been a great and many rounds - but if they do think that there is an increase in wages, there is a benchmarking in it, a salary adjusted to the task is in it, then this will bring forward the current static system, which two are complementary, we believe that it will help the work of the future administration of the state. I ask you, if you change your mind until tomorrow, your support. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-05-23-288	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, The decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting. Dear Parliament, The 2007 LX on the implementation framework for the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change and its Kyoto Protocol follows. Act CCXVII of 2012 on participation in the Community greenhouse gas trading scheme and the implementation of the effort-sharing decision. Commission reports submitted to the bill amending the Act and discussion of the summarised amendment proposal. Government referral T/10314. The Commission's non-autonomous texts are available on the parliamentary IT network. Dear Parliament, The debate will be the first to present the position of the Legislative Committee within a 15-minute time frame. I therefore give the floor to Mr László B. Nagy, rapporteur of the committee.
u2016-05-23-289	Mr President, Dear House, At the meeting of the Legislative Committee on 19 May 2016, members held a debate on the 2007 LX framework for implementing the UN Framework Convention on Climate Change and its Kyoto Protocol. Act CCXVII of 2012 on participation in the Community greenhouse gas trading scheme and the implementation of the effort-sharing decision. T/10314. About bill No. 1. The Committee shall be governed by the Rules of Procedure 46. It submitted a proposal for amendment and a summary report with 31 votes in favour, i.e. a unanimous decision. The summarised amendment contains the 14-point amendment proposal of the Committee on Sustainable Development, which is of a technical nature and contains clarifications. At the committee meeting, State Secretary Zsolt Szabó confirmed - and I agree with this statement - that we are getting closer and closer to the goals detailed in the proposal. At the moment, this package of laws was entirely created in the light of the current Paris climate agreement and reflects the current state of affairs. It has also been said that this is the first time, the Paris Convention and the New York signature, where an exemplary cooperation of this size has been observed by various nations. Thank you for listening, and please support the bill. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-05-23-290	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I will ask Mr Zsolt Szabó State Secretary if he wishes to speak on behalf of the authors. [[Zsolt Szabó: No.]] Not now, later. Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, The designated Committee for Sustainable Development has not presented a rapporteur. It is now up to the Members to speak within the time-frame on the agenda. There is no possibility of a two-minute comment during the debate. First, I give the floor to Congresswoman Anita Heringes, the Hungarian Socialist Party.
u2016-05-23-291	Thank you very much for the floor. As we mentioned in the debate - not really a debate, but a discussion on this subject - if we look at the Paris agreement, then we can say that a historic agreement has been reached in Paris. Of course, we also understand and hear those who believe that a stronger agreement should have been made and that we can fully accept the views of those who believe that this agreement will be worth anything if the major issuers sign the announced agreement. But now I say, and our faction says that it is a success, that 196 countries have joined together to combat climate change, and Hungary is the first to do so. Ladies and gentlemen, In the course of success, we must not forget the most important thing, that change must be made by ourselves. We've got work to do, too. After the publication of the agreement, we need to rethink our climate strategy and review our government policy not only in words but also in actions, since the share of renewable energy sources in Hungary is currently only 9.8 percent of the total energy mix and no new wind power plant has been built since 2011. There is still room for improvement for the country and the government, because there really is no Plan B, no Plan B, as Ban Ki Mun said. [[20.10]] Thank you very much for listening to me, and I hope that we will be able to negotiate on this subject longer and agree with most Members. And so on, not only have they done, we need not only plans, but also actions. Thank you very much.
u2016-05-23-292	Thank you, Congresswoman. I give the floor to Congressman Lajos Kepli, Jobbik.
u2016-05-23-293	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I'll be brief, too. Indeed, all international conventions that bring us even one step closer to fighting climate change and preventing climate change escalation and preparing for situations that are welcome to us as a result of climate change, I believe that it is our duty to ratify and vote in favour, regardless of party policy issues, and to contribute to its adoption. However, the next word must be a criticism, because the main motto of environmental protection, as I said in my speech to the lead speaker and in the general debate, is to think globally and act locally. There are some problems here in Hungary over the last few years or even decades, since none of the past governments was an exception, to a lesser or greater extent, but all of them contributed to the current situation. However, in addition to doing what we can on the international stage, and as one of the 195 countries, Hungary is ratifying this agreement, we in Hungary must do much more than we currently do in Hungary so that they are not just words, but we will also transform them into actions, and even though it is only a very small part of the total global emissions that Hungary contributes to greenhouse gas emissions, but our conscience can only be clear if we try to reduce them to the minimum. At the moment, legislation does not always give us the opportunity to do so, whether we are thinking about renewable energies, whether we are thinking about other environment-related areas, waste management, there is plenty more to do. Each debate, whether on waste management, energy or other environmental or water issues, has our objections to how the environmental sector has come to an end in the last six years and how its ability to defend its interests has been reduced. In response, the government always says the opposite - unfortunately, the facts and the situation do not support their right, at least in our opinion. This debate will take place until a government that will manage this area in accordance with its weight will arrive, implementing the measures necessary to ensure that the interests of future generations are properly taken into account in Hungary as well. We continue to make our proposals every single time, and if we get to the point where the Jobbik will form a government, then it will be implemented. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2016-05-23-294	Thank you very much, Congressman. I give the floor to Congressman Sallai R. Benedek.
u2016-05-23-295	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, I join the opposition representatives before me, because basically our attitude to this legislation is that it can't hurt. We are fundamentally positive about the ambitious or not ambitious, but forward-looking objectives that have been set in Paris, but at the same time we need to be clear that the fact that the world's leaders fly to elegant, fancy hotels and say all kinds of nice words does not make things better, and the same climate risk that is currently hanging over our heads remains. That's not enough. Here we must take effective, meaningful steps at the level of governments and take as much effort as possible, partly to halt climate change, partly to achieve an adaptation at the highest possible level in the case of damage that has occurred so far. At the moment, we do not see the substantive steps of this adaptation, and if the Secretary of State representing the FM is here, I am not always convinced to mention as much as possible the need to take action, for example, to increase the level of irrigation and to increase government efforts. But it is also possible to look at in the adaptation strategy how much more shadowed public transport waiting for us, how much more metropolitan water drains, how much we helped people every day by adapting to the changes already made in the adaptation strategy. It is very, very important that the risk that humanity faces with potential temperature increase is contained, but it cannot be done in itself with fine words and ideas put into law, only with substantive government measures. Even in this legislative term, we will be voting on the 2017 budget, to which the May Other Political Group has tabled a number of amendments that would create specific implementation opportunities and would try to transfer funds to the competent wallet in order to make as much progress as possible. At the same time, it should be noted that this is still limited if, by all other means, the government is helping to provide financial support to sectors which seriously threaten the climate, which, at the moment, is essentially contrary to the Paris Convention. Much more global, much more comprehensive regulation is needed, and this legislation alone is not enough. We obviously support it, we are pleased that the Hungarian Government supports it, and at least in words it acts as important to the person, but at the same time it is necessary to pay attention to all potential industrial activities that endanger the environment in a comprehensive legislative environment and to set substantive limits. It's the only way to limit the danger that lies ahead. I wish for all of us to succeed in curbing the process of climate change in the face of planet Earth and humanity by enforcing and implementing legislation widely, while at the same time I have serious reservations about whether that would be enough for it. I ask the Government to try to enforce these principles and the ideas expressed by the Head of State in the general debate in all other endeavours. Thank you very much.
u2016-05-23-296	Thank you, Congressman. I'll ask if anyone else wants to speak in the remaining timeframes. [[No one's reporting.]] I don't see any contact. Dear Parliament, The debate is closed. I would like to ask Mr Zsolt Szabó, State Secretary, who represents the authors, if you would like to comment now. [[Zsolt Szabó nods.]] You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2016-05-23-297	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear House, First of all, I would like to thank both the pro-government and the opposition groups for their cooperation to support the draft legislation before us. The case will bring unity, and we hope that cooperation will take place in the future from the point of view of action, not only here in Hungary, but throughout the world, and we hope that it will result in the Paris climate summit itself, the New York signature and the massive ratification by the countries of the world. The summarised amendment tabled by the Legislative Committee is in line with the Government's position, and on all these grounds I ask you to support both the amendment, the summarised amendment proposal and the law itself during the vote. Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-05-23-298	Thank you, Secretary of State Zsolt Szabó. Dear Parliament, The decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting. Now, Honourable Parliament, we now have the 18th of 2004 on wine production and wine management. General discussion of the bill amending the law until closure. Presentation by MEPs Lajos Kósa, Sándor Font and Zsolt Nyitrai Fidesz T/1068. is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, I give the floor to Mr Font Sándor, the author of the item on the agenda. You have the floor, Mr. President of the Commission.
u2016-05-23-299	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. We have tabled a bill quoted by the President with my fellow Members, which is of a technical nature. Anyone who has read the two points of this proposal, we would like to see this bill put into effect before this year's future grape harvest. The Sub-Committee on Grape-wine-Pálinka, which I led, is meeting in a very intensive manner, we made numerous comments last year and the year before last, and we do not hide it, we made more proposals regarding the marketing of imported wines in Hungary regarding their quality control, the conditions for marketing, and how we could help Hungarian farmers and wine producers, put them in a competitive position, sometimes undesirable, but still against mass wines from the European Union on domestic shelves. [[20.20]] In these two points, this motion is about partly meeting the points of the demonstration organised by the wine producers last year, while in part we have worked on the awareness raising of the Hungarian professional organisation, the National Council of the Mountains and the speakers of the Sub-Committee on Wine-wine-Pálinka. In fact, in accordance with EU legislation, we would now like to set the date of issue of the request for certification by the wine authorities by law, which is 90 days. This was a debate with the Union as to whether it is sufficient to draft this publication period in a regulation or other legislation, but it has now become clear that they insist on legislative wording. This is what we do in this point 1, we name it and we clarify what documents should be presented to the importer of wine in case of placing on the market in Hungary. In point 2, in the so-called PGI category, this wine with a protected geographical indication, the maximum quantity that can be produced on one hectare is regulated. At the time, Hungary also introduced the new quality designation schemes required by the European Union, in which PDO - protected designation of origin - and PGI - wines with the abovementioned protected geographical indication - and FN - without a geographical indication - named instead of the old quality, landscape and table wine categories. At that time, the Member State and the wine regions were entrusted with the quantity of fruit per hectare and the quantity of must and wine that can be filtered in the wine region concerned to be allowed to bear the load. It appears from our experience that since the introduction of this scheme in 2009, too strict a quantity of fruit has been established for PGI wines, i.e. wines with protected geographical indications. More precisely, all our competitors in Europe allow higher quantities of crops in this category. We're adjusting to this trend. We have no secret intention of allowing a load of 160 hectolitres/hectare against the current 120 hectolitres/hectare authorised under this category, as proposed. We want to compete with competition in this category. We do not want to force Hungarian farmers to produce a limited quantity of grapes with a crop restriction, but at a printed price. [[Continuous noise from the benches of the MSZP. The president's ringing the bell.]] While our competitors appear on the market at a higher load price. Therefore, we have tried to accept one of the requests of professional organisations, and, as I mentioned, of the producers of grapes, with this initiative. As I said, and this was also confirmed by my fellow Members at a committee meeting: this is a technical professional proposal. It is very important that it should take effect before the summer autumn harvest. We therefore propose entry into force in point 3 within 15 days. Thank you very much for your attention. I ask for the support of our bill in the future.
u2016-05-23-300	Thank you very much, Congressman. I will ask if the Secretary of State György Czerván wishes to speak on behalf of the Government. [[For signal:]] You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2016-05-23-301	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to point out, first of all, that the bill is supported by the government, and I would also like the support of all Members for the adoption of the proposal. The bill contains an amendment to the law laying down the legal framework for the production of wine grapes and wine products in Hungary. The aim of the proposal is to increase the competitiveness of domestic wine and wine producers and to increase the efficiency of domestic controls of wine products imported from other Member States. The amendment to the wine law is justified by the fact that, as from 1 January 2016, a deadline longer than the time limit for public administration in general can only be set by law. In the past, this provision laid down in a government decree the deadline for the wine administration to verify wine products imported into Hungary for further processing or presentation. The longer time limit than the general administrative deadline to be introduced at the legislative level is justified by the fact that wine products that come before Hungarian consumers comply with the legal requirements in all respects. Follow-up of wine products produced from grapes harvested in Hungary is ensured from grape capital up to presentation. The consequences of a possible wine counterfeiting scandal can lead to a loss of consumer confidence that neither the wine authority nor the sector can afford to compete in an ever-enhancing market. Last summer several wineries from an EU Member State were involved in counterfeiting cases, which turned out to be regular suppliers of Hungarian wineries. At that time, the wine authority blocked all the wine products that were suspected, so that no liter of wine could come from these wines to the table of Hungarian consumers. Therefore, strict, consistent and thorough monitoring remains necessary. In addition, the amendment of the wine law provides for the possibility for producers' communities producing landscape wine to increase the upper limit of harvestable production in order to produce more competitive landscape wine. The Ministry has already supported the producer initiative in the negotiations with the vine producers. In addition, the National Council of Mountains confirmed this general producer intention. Producer communities have also begun preparing amendments to the product specifications governing the preparation of landscape wines. As we have heard from Congressman Font, the measures proposed above can have a positive impact on the extent necessary if they are introduced before the start of this year's harvest. Dear Parliament, The vine-wine sector has started a very promising development thanks to a number of positive government decisions. Producers trust the help of legislators. The current amendment to the wine law contributes to preserving our achievements so far. Overall, it is the common goal of Hungarian wine consumers to drink reliable, high quality Hungarian wine. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2016-05-23-302	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Now we're going to hear the speeches from the lead speaker. First, I give the floor to Mr István Horváth, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group.
u2016-05-23-303	Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Mr President, We have a short, but very important proposal for the wine and wine sector. As the speakers before me, Mr. Secretary of State and Mr. President have already mentioned, the amendments included must enter into force before the start of this year's harvest in order to make our domestic wine and wine sector as competitive as possible. So it is very important to be able to make a decision quickly and wisely. In order to reduce red tape, it is certainly appropriate that the time for administrative procedures should be shorter in general, but only in cases where there is a great need for administrative procedural legislation to depart from 45 days. The bill before us is such a bill. I think it is clear from the experience of recent years that wines of a typical low price category and low quality often come from abroad in a dumping fashion can cause serious market disturbances, which burden the domestic wine sector. [[20.30]] It was a serious and effective step in eliminating difficulties in 2014 that the previous very short marketing authorisation period for imported wines was extended to 90 days. Even today, this measure is one of the pillars of the protection of domestic markets and producers, the maintenance of which, therefore, the amendment of the law, is definitely justified. After all, it is important, in order to protect both the domestic market and domestic consumers, that the authorities are as thorough as possible, to examine the quality and origin of the wines to be imported. Good work takes time, and we are expected to serve the interests of Hungarian winemakers, vineyards and consumers. In fact, in my opinion, in domestic legislation, there should be a way for further imports of food to be covered by the obligation of inspection and authorisation, as well as the procedural protocol, to be implemented along a similar concept, as is what the amending proposal before us would like to achieve. The second part of the amending bill raises the maximum quantity per hectare of fruit which can be used for the production of wines with protected geographical indications from 120 hectolitres per hectare to 160 hectolitres per hectare, allowing for a more competitive production of landscape wines. As Mr President has already pointed out, with the current legislation, Hungary has put domestic producers at a competitive disadvantage against imported vineyards and winemakers, so it is very important that we work off this type of competitive disadvantage and that we are able to produce a sufficient amount of raw material for the production of protected geographical wines at domestic level. The bill provides for only an opportunity to increase the maximum quantity per hectare of the crop that can be used, and if it is applied in practice, it is necessary to amend the specification for the protected geographical indications concerned. I call on this House, my fellow Members, to support the amendment that is before us, because it is extremely important and important for the domestic wine and wine sector. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2016-05-23-304	Thank you, Congressman Horváth. I now give the floor - with the hope that my fellow Members will not disturb the main speech - to MEP Zsolt Legény, the Hungarian Socialist Party.
u2016-05-23-305	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, The bill before us contains an amendment to the Law on Wine and Wine Management laying down the legal framework for the production of wine and wine products in Hungary. The proposal by individual representatives not only shows that Lajos Kósa is surprisingly good at wine management, since we know that Mr Font has been a committee president, but also that the aim of this bill is to increase the competitiveness of domestic wine and wine producers and to increase the efficiency and efficiency of wine products in Hungary. According to the explanatory memorandum and the submiters, the proposed measures can have a positive impact on the extent necessary if they are introduced before the start of this year's harvest. The proposal is therefore essentially two essentially good and technical amendments which have already been presented by my fellow Member, Mr Font. They would be acceptable, because once again I say that both would be perfectly okay professionally, but it is incomprehensible why they are brought back to this House in the form of individual Members' motions. In view of this, the MSZP parliamentary group will abstain from voting. As I have said, the content of the bill would be professionally correct, but the old fidesz method of introducing legislative proposals in the form of individual representatives' motions, thus avoiding a great many of the elements that are otherwise required in the legislative and legislative agenda, such as the avoidance of negotiations, is considered particularly harmful and harmful. We believe that with this abstention, we would like to point out that we would like the parties of government to refrain from this solution. It is not elegant, it is not good, we think it would be much better if they returned to the normal legislative process, and the government or the wallet presented these legislative proposals, because then it would be possible, as I said, for example, for social consultation. Once again, we agree with the content of the bill, but we will abstain, and with our abstention we would like to point out that we would like to draw attention to the shortcomings of the procedure. Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President.
u2016-05-23-306	Thank you, Congressman Zsolt Bachelor. I give the floor to MEP Zoltán Magyar, the lead speaker of Jobbik's group.
u2016-05-23-307	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Mr. Secretary. We agree with the proposal, we have already said this at the committee meeting, we can accept both its two main elements, as well as those relating to the Nabih and the maximum quantity per hectare. We believe that it is a realistic proposal, but it must be said that much more was expected of Hungarian winemakers and winemakers in relation to the problem of protecting them from cheap foreign and often low-quality competition, and we are still looking forward to these further proposals, both we and those involved. The demand package, which was made last year during the demonstrations, which was brought to life by winemakers and winemakers, was much more demanding than that, and I believe that there would have been plenty to look at in order to make substantial progress in this area. The little that has happened now is positive, but I also want to say that this kind of solution, the abuse of the advantages of the individual MEP's motion again, is not what I think is right. I understand that in order for this to take effect before the harvest, this solution was the most appropriate solution, but it could have been submitted before, then we could have discussed it in a normal procession. But that doesn't affect our decision so much that we don't vote for it, but I had to say it as a criticism. Thank you for the opportunity, Mr. President. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2016-05-23-308	Thank you very much. I give the floor to Congressman Sallai R. Benedek, LMP.
u2016-05-23-309	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, Sometimes we see things differently here in the opposition, and I see nothing wrong with it, that if a practicing winemaker, who knows the problems of the profession from a daily point of view, comes with such a motion from his own representatives. So in this, I see less trouble, and for my part, I accept the problems that you point out. Basically, I feel very, very forward-looking and good about the legislative part that increases the opportunities of Nebih for wine imports, and I consider it a necessary and useful measure. However, I would point out to my fellow Member, President Font Sándor, that perhaps your committee will be discussing my amendment, which would assign additional resources to the resources of the Nebih in the budget law, because at the moment we see in the entire agricultural area that the quantity of the verifiable sample is now less than 10%. Nébih is struggling with human resources and infrastructure problems, so in order to better and better manage these control activities, it needs additional resources. I would be delighted that if your committee were to negotiate and go nowhere else, you would be able to support this motion, because the Nebih will then be able to carry out these inspection tasks, and then there will be significantly greater sampling, and you will be able to achieve the objective of your amendment if Nebih receives the necessary background. So that's what I'm asking Mr. President. Overall, I think that the first part of this motion is fully eligible, but I already had a very bad feeling about the second part, which is obviously not so much my own, because I am not a winemaker, but, in discussing it with winemakers, several people have raised their concerns about the fact that it may not contribute to the deterioration of quality, which is now actually trying to increase 120 hectolitres/ha to 160. This is something that my fellow Member should know better, because we should retain our potential not only in the European Union market but also in the internal quality market, and the quality of Hungarian wine is the primary competitiveness rather than the volume of what we can sell. [[20.40]] As a result, I can clearly see that those who want to maintain their quality ambition will not be obliged to increase their yield, but may be at a competitive disadvantage against other Hungarian winemakers who might do so in the same production area. Therefore, our abstention does not concern the system of procedures, and not because we question the sector's needs in this regard, but because we can fully agree with the first measure, but in the second measure we see a slight danger that may lead to a deterioration in the quality of certain production areas due to the pursuit of quantity. Obviously, I will be interested in the opinion of my fellow expert Member. I would like to draw your attention to one more thing, since I have the floor and we are talking about winemakers. My fellow Members here, my fellow members of the Government, have certainly learned that in the case of agri-environmental aid, winemakers have also suffered serious harm, and they, too, who have been able to participate in the programme and have worked effectively, are now without resources. It would be very good if we could work together to ensure that the entire AKG support could be used in part to support the wine sector and that additional resources, possibly rethinking the decision on this matter, could be made. And one last thought: from the mouth of my fellow Member, István Horváth, I was pleased to hear the sentence that good work takes time, and we fully agree. The only regret is that when we said the same thing about nature conservation impact studies and archaeological and heritage conservation efforts that good work takes time, then all deadlines have been reduced in completely different steps, even though the official work and professional work there would have required what you now justify. Obviously, you can't think equally about everything here, but nevertheless, this idea would be good if the ruling party were to appear in general in all of its other endeavours. Thank you for the floor, Mr President.
u2016-05-23-310	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. I'll ask who else wants to comment. [[No signal.]] No one came forward in writing. I will continue to ask if anyone else wishes to take the opportunity to speak. Congressman Sallai R. Benedek, are you accidentally high? [[Sallai R. Benedek: Yes, by accident.]] Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, As no one has made any further comments, the general debate is closed and I give the floor on behalf of the rapporteurs to Commission President Font Sándor, who clearly wishes to respond to what was said in the debate.
u2016-05-23-311	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. István Horváth, in sync with us, and with me, the Secretary of State, told me about the Fidesz faction's support, and I have nothing to say. The criticisms were primarily from the opposition, but I thank my colleague Zsolt Legény for his positive attitude. I know that many times the opposition has doubts that a 40-50-page bill came in the form of an individual proposal, and raises the question whether the Member actually wrote that proposal based on his own experience. However, may I say so, my fellow Member, that an amendment of a technical nature, which is also the subject of this debate, and in consultation with the relevant professional organisations in the subcommittee, I accept and thank Mr Benedek for his statement that Members are, after all, given the right to submit a draft law. So let's not take this completely, in the logic of the MSZP, I can see that it is constantly confessing that everything should be submitted by the government, because it is possible to stall time for a long time through social debate organisations and impact studies, and see if social organisations will find any excuses, the opposition organization will tune in to it and tear the submitted government referral to pieces. I understand that, we are sitting here ourselves, we have been opposition representatives for several years, we know this logic. But I still dare say that such a classic, minimal sentence bill should be allowed to be submitted by an individual representative. I do not hide the claim that we would very much like the law to come into force before the harvest. And here I note that I do not hide what Zoltán Magyar has suggested, either, that there are more proposals to be made by vineyards or winemakers to assist their position. This is true, it is also possible to read back what has been said at the sub-committee meetings of the wine-wine-pálinka or who may follow the statements of the National Council of the Mountains. Indeed, there is only one problem here, that even the points formulated at the demonstration of last year's wine producers, which was closely observed by our fellow Member Zoltán Magyar, or in the wordings expressed in the HNT and the sub-committee on wine-wine-palinka, are no longer as much in agreement as in these two points. In these two points, it was clear that everyone would like to do so, that we do not have to argue with the EU, that professional organisations also say that this must come now, and that the managing authority itself, and Nebih, say that it would help them a lot in the work, so we thought that this would be without debate. Some of the further requests, I dare say, are already inadequate for wording and debate, because it is impossible to fulfil. I read them, I know them, and now I'm focusing on some of the protestors' questions. One category must be excluded, well-intentioned, we understand what they want, but I could say that they are laymen and do not know the order of legislation, perhaps freedom, what can be done in a vineyard sector, and perhaps in the agricultural sector supervised by the Union. The other part is something where we say yes. You can argue about that, but the profession itself says that it's not so obvious. Let me mention one: the question of the minimum alcoholic strength of wines that may be marketed is whether we should continue to allow wine to be marketed at a temperature of 9 per cent alcohol, and to say that wine, when we do not want to do so professionally, and say that wine could only be marketed at a minimum of 10 to 10.5 per cent alcohol. But one part of the profession says that with this, we can have a vintage and variety with which we will be forced to bear such vintage, when 9-9,5 wine will be produced here in Hungary. But those who submitted it clearly claim that no wine should not be placed on the market below 10,5 percent alcohol. But we can't bring him in here as a suggestion when there are debates within the profession. Therefore, I am referring only to my fellow Member, Zoltán Magyar, thanking you for your support, so that we know how many more controversial topics and the idea of strengthening vineyards and winemakers are already spinning, we analyse them, but there is no consensus. Either the government itself or the Ministry of Professional Affairs, the FM disagrees with it or disputes it or has EU barriers, or the wine-growing sector representatives and various national representative organisations are not in line with some of the controversial issues; therefore, accepting that there are still areas that seem to have to be challenged. Sallai R. Benedek also thanking for the support, one specific issue is the second question. In the case of § 5 of this Regulation, whether the increase in production volume of 120 hectolitres per hectare at the expense of quality is not an accident to 160. I have tried to mention in the presentation that three categories are listed today on the basis of the quantity of grapes and on the basis of other quality parameters - alcohol, extra content and others - the wines placed on the market, and the best quality type that we might compete with and export is the PDO category, i.e. the category of protected designation of origin. Here it is even more stringent, there is no more than 100 hectolitres/hectare to be produced, and who is a self-taxing winemaker, and who seriously believes that he wants to work on the market in competition, quality, export and image building, everyone works in the PDO category, but let us be honest, there is a consumer layer who has to be produced by the PDO 100% from that production area and that only wine can be marketed. In the PGI category, where I now propose a load increase with this motion, only 75% of the grapes must come from the given production area, and 25% of grapes can be bought from co-growing areas. This is a looser category, obviously not the PDO, so we called it the old quality or special quality category, which is not the same category. [[20.50]] We used to call this the classic category of landscape wine. Our problem is that the surrounding countries seem to allow a much higher load volume in the category of landscape wine, and if we squeeze ourselves into the lower production volume, then it is obvious that the expected value taken from one hectare will not be as high as our competitors, because we stop at 120 hectolitres/hectare, they go to 160 hectares, and sometimes - now I don't name these countries - they allow 200 hectoes in some countries in this category. And anyone who thinks they're comfortable in this category, in the market segment, because they have a consumer market here, should take this step. I would add that this should be recorded for the wine regions, as Mr Secretary of State has said, even in their local regulations. This does not mean that all 22 Hungarian wine regions will enter into their regulations that from now on they will be able to produce 160 hectoes per hectare; I do not think some wine regions will touch this, they will say that they do not care, and they do not even want to allow the 160 hecto/hectare production load in the PGI category. The law allows this to be developed by the wine regions concerned. I do not want to open this debate, but I do not miss the point and I would like to reflect on the fact that wineries may suffer losses in relation to the AKG. Let us be clear: not the wineries, but the vine producers. There will soon be a fairly significant support for the development of tools and technology for rural development, and even an additional amount will be available there. Here, grape producers may find themselves in a more difficult situation. During today's interpellation period, Minister János Lázár, if I recall correctly, named HUF 15 billion for a second-round AKG issue and 25 billion for the AKG cycle of livestock farmers. We are already working hard to increase the number of winners in the second round among those who have been mentioned by my fellow Member and who are actually engaged in serious cultivation. Thank you very much to all those who support the draft law and, with their critical comments, will contribute to the final adoption of this law. Thank you. [[Applause in the ranks of Fidesz.]]
u2016-05-23-312	Thank you, Congressman, President of the Commission. The amendments may be submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. Dear Parliament, In line with the 2013 CXXII on the marketing of agricultural and forestry land. CCXII of 2013 on certain provisions and transitional arrangements related to the Law. General discussion of the bill amending the law until closure. The proposal submitted by Fidesz MEPs István Jakab and Balázs Győrffy T/10399. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, I give the floor to Mr Balázs Győrffy, the rapporteur of the item on the agenda, in a 30-minute time frame.
u2016-05-23-313	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Our amendment with my fellow Member, Mr István Jakab, can be divided into two substantive parts. The first part clarifies the legal capacity of the National Chamber of Agricultural Economy in court if the Chamber acts as a land committee. In recent years, the Constitutional Court's decision has made it clear in what cases and under what circumstances the Chamber's County Presidency, acting as the Land Committee, can draw up an opinion and a position. In this case, the next legal action, if the person concerned does not agree with the Chamber's decision, may appeal to the body of representatives of the municipality. In the event that the body of representatives changes the Chamber's position, according to current case law, its court will choose whether or not to determine the Chamber's legal capacity in court. Otherwise, there is no need to think in enormous volumes, because only one and a half to two percent of the proportion of the land committee cases, the number of cases where the Chamber is rejecting for some reason, and only a fraction of these cases are when the municipality changes the chamber decision. Not in one case have we wanted to defend, on a professional basis, the position that we have established before the court, but the legal situation is unclear. For this reason, we would like to make it clear that the Chamber has the opportunity to bring to court the cases in which it wishes to defend its position. The other section of the bill, the other subject concerned, is a much more acute and a great deal of political upheaval. With reference to organic farming, there is not one case where very many people abuse and exercise pre-emptive rights. We can give many specific examples. Recently, at the Vatta in Borsod-Abaúj-Zemplén County, a lawyer in Budapest claimed that he would conduct organic farming in that area, taking away all the areas that were posted in the settlement from local farmers. I believe that, regardless of faction or political affiliation within the Parliament, everyone agrees that organic farming is an important part of the Hungarian agriculture, its expansion is absolutely welcome, but the legislator did not want to promote this kind of abuse when organic farming became a pre-emptive right to land traffic regulation. I would like to point out that we have undertaken a legislative amendment in consultation with Biocontrol Hungaria. Mr.Péter Roszik also said that it is not in any way in the interests of the sector if eco-management as a status is undermined in this way. It is not very lifelike for a person who has never practiced organic farming to be able to establish a pre-emptive right from any point in the country on the basis of this activity only because, in relation to the land that will be used in ten to twenty years' time, he claims that he would like to continue organic farming there. And there are other cases like this that could be classified. In Tolna County, many of these problems have come to light. In not one case, a farmer who has undertaken organic farming has put three to six persons in an awkward situation who, with a fresh stamp, also referred to the intention of carrying out organic farming on their original producer's card and on their farmer's certificate. They are, by the way, employees of a large enterprise - agronomist, mechanic, tractorman - and they said that they wanted to continue organic farming. In such cases, farmers will be in the same order, and when it comes to state territory, there will be a draw. Yesterday afternoon, a farmer bitterly told me that there's a 6:1 chance he'll be drawn out of this lutrine. This is by no means the objective which any of us could agree with, so I would respectfully ask the Parliament to support this amendment - if there is any intention and thought that will help us to achieve this goal, even by making proposals to amend it - because it is in all our interests that such an absurd situation in the Hungarian agriculture should not occur in the Hungarian countryside. Mr. President, thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of Fidesz.]]
u2016-05-23-314	Thank you very much, Congressman. I ask you to speak on behalf of the government now or at the end, Mr Secretary of State. [[György Czerván: Now.]] Secretary of State says now. You have the floor, Secretary of State György Czerván.
u2016-05-23-315	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, Mr István Jakab and Mr Balázs Győrffy's bill seeks to amend two current elements of the land traffic regulations. On the one hand, it seeks to prevent the abuse of the right to pre-purchase or pre-lease by reference to organic farming, and on the other hand it determines the procedural status of the National Chamber of Agriculture acting under the authority of the local land committee. [[21.00]] According to the rules of the Land Traffic Act, the organic farmer has a very high right to pre-purchase or pre-lease, but the law does not lay down the detailed rules for the exercise of this right, thereby opening up the risk of tension in the farming community with the emergence of abuse. In addition, it is very important that the prestige of organic farming does not go down because of pseudo-bioproducers and that consumers' confidence in these valuable products is not wavered. The current rules do not determine the area and duration of organic production after reference to this, and uncertainty may be a breeding ground for the intended or erroneous interpretation of the text of the legislation. The Chamber's procedural role was very thoroughly covered by the Constitutional Court's decision a year ago, but, unfortunately, according to the experience of court practice, the interpretation of the Constitutional Court's law was not sufficiently effective. As an important principle, the Constitutional Court has stated that the Chamber represents the interests of farmers in the specific proceedings as an indirect private-law interest, but the resulting status of client is not recognised by some courts. This amendment removes this problem of law enforcement, clearly specifying the company's customer status and its content. Dear Parliament, To sum up, I would like to point out that, although only two small details are covered by the bill, its importance must be emphasised and, in view of this, I ask for your support. Thank you for your attention. [[It's a rare round of applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-05-23-316	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Before the keynote speeches take place, I would like to ask my fellow socialists that the group meeting may need to be held outside the corridor or in the column. [[Interviews from the ranks of the MSZP.]] They bother each other, my fellow Members, they disturb each other. First, I give the floor to Mr István Horváth, the lead speaker of the Group of the Fidesz Group, in a series of keynote speeches.
u2016-05-23-317	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, In my opinion and in the opinion of my fellow factions, the part of the proposal before us concerning land purchase and the order of pre-lease offers us an important problem and provides us with an appropriate solution. Unfortunately, at present, land grabbing benefits for organic farmers have been abused. The current conditions provided by the law have been defined in good faith and generously, which must be changed in order to ensure that the spirit of the law is properly practiced. Where the change in the proposal takes effect, a buyer or tenant who has no experience in organic farming shall not benefit from organic farming. In the course of previous discussions on this part of the proposal, there has been an objection which can be considered as the most theoretical one, according to which the change would exclude those who wish to pursue organic farming, but who do not have own or leased land, I think, if we look at this excuse professionally, it is clear that it would be unrealistic to start and invest in organic farming which requires a serious agricultural experience without any agricultural history. On this basis, I do not think that any honest citizen of good faith would be disadvantaged by the introduction of regulation, but local farmers who have been forced to back down in the order of pre-emption because of the benefits of eco-management are able to enforce their legitimate benefits. The part of the proposal that would give the National Chamber of Agricultural Economy, representing the local land committee, the capacity to sue, in our opinion, will help to ensure that the land policy objectives laid down in the Land Traffic Act can actually be met, so our group will also support this regulatory correction. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, On the basis of the reasons I have given you, I would like to ask you with respect to support the legislative amendment that is before us. [[It's a rare round of applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-05-23-318	Thank you, Congressman István Horváth. I now give the floor to Mr Gábor Harangozó, the lead speaker of the MSZP Group.
u2016-05-23-319	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear fellow Members, What we have heard so far, I think it is clear that this proposal practically did not make much sense even when it was born. I mean, the whole system doesn't work the way it is. This land traffic law is simply inoperable and inoperable. Technically, what you have said here as an example, turns out that the goals on which this law was founded cannot simply be fulfilled by this law. Although in the previous debate President Font objected to the Socialist Party's opposition to the amendment of a law on agriculture by way of another individual motion, he said that, of course, individual representatives had the right to submit such a law. Of course, you have the right to submit such a bill or amendment, I would just like to draw attention to the fact that this is also a proposal submitted by individual Members, and then the next law that we will be discussing is also a proposal submitted by individual Members, and we can still wait this week for such matters. I would just like to draw attention to the fact that if the agricultural portfolio is really so incompetent to see the problems, they have laid down laws here that do not work, and if they do not work, they are not able to correct them, then perhaps we should appoint the agricultural chamber and Balázs Győrffy as ministers, because they understand what is going on in the countryside better than they do what should be done. Only then will we replace this Ministry, because we spent a lot of money on it, completely unnecessary! In addition, we are actually financing a public administration here, who has also been found in the recently published Kehi study, that the land has simply been mafialy divided and that a land lease system has been developed that has been used to steal the land from local farmers, to give it to their friends, properly, mafialy, and then on the foundations of this land they later sold. So, it's time to see if the system's working properly. Obviously, these modifications also show that they are not. As to the content of the amendment, it was about the need for local land committees, because a committee of local farmers will be assembled, and they will know precisely whether the person who comes there is speculant or foreign, and then will not contribute well to the purchase of the land. This is about when such local committees were not set up, because they were told that it would not be good to have them, because that was not the task, let's say, in such cases, the county presidency of the Chamber of Agriculture decides who can buy the land, who can't. And if the local government who are on the ground object to this, then the Chamber of Agriculture can sue and undo this refusal by the municipality. Well, ladies and gentlemen, I know because there was an example in committee that there was also an abusive case, and it was questionable why a municipality had taken such a decision, but then this municipality would have to accept the consequences. The fact that the Chamber of Agriculture, which, by the way, does not have any authority, even in the original intention of the law, is to make these decisions, so that the agricultural chamber has the final word, I think it is the wrong way. Therefore, we cannot support this. As far as the other case is concerned, an abusive reference to organic farming shows that this land law has not been well established, if that is how it works. Because what you're trying to do now is that if, by referring to eco-management, people have referred to it as an abuse, we should at all take it out of the law in order to make reference to it, and not give it the opportunity for young people who have an eco-management intention, let's say, to take advantage of it, because there may be people who abuse it. [[21.10]] If there are abusers, then build limits that cannot be abused, but not the law or legislation that promotes the spread of eco-management. Not even because there is an increasing market for products from organic farming. Conscious consumers, families or consumers concerned about their health are increasingly choosing products from eco-management. In addition, Western Europe is showing increasing market uptake, and let us not forget that once a free trade agreement is established, let us say, an American-European free trade agreement, it is precisely for Hungarian eco-management products that a very serious market can be opened up by Hungary being not only GMO-free, but also if it has a serious eco-management capacity, then it can also create a very serious market potential. However, there are obviously dangers to such an agreement, but we will then seek out its possibilities and at least develop in that direction. So I think these proposals are not proposals in the right direction, and we cannot support them. Thank you so much for listening.
u2016-05-23-320	Thank you very much, Congressman. I give the floor to Congressman Zoltán Magyar, the lead speaker of the Jobbik Group.
u2016-05-23-321	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Mr. Secretary. I am in trouble with this proposal, because it is perhaps clear to everyone how Jobbik condemned the new earth traffic law and how much we disagreed on fundamental issues. However, the proposal before us is trying to address two real problems, but let us see how. I am very sorry that we have to talk about the Chamber of Agriculture here within the walls of the Hungarian Parliament as a political issue, and we have to look at it as such, because it is not because of Jobbik and not because of the opposition. It is absurd enough that the President of the Chamber of Agriculture could speak in favour of the law from the benches of the governing party, and not at all against the person of Balázs Győrffy, and certainly not personally, but I think it is not normal that the President of the Chamber of Agriculture can sit in the pro-government benches, so that the whole war or change of place can begin at any moment, or I do not know what the situation would happen at this time, but it would not benefit the Hungarian countryside and not the Hungarian agriculture. The fact that, in some cases, the legal capacity of the Chamber of Agriculture would be good if it were more stable and stood up to the courts is indisputable. President Győrffy has also given me examples that have convinced me that this can be useful in some cases, especially if, let us say, an unwanted purchase of land is being tried by a local government which does not serve local interests in the long term, and certainly would not improve the situation in the Hungarian countryside. But I am afraid that such an agricultural chamber concreteization opportunity, which this amendment will provide, if it passes, could also provide an opportunity for abuse. I accept that Hungarian agriculture, countryside, and not family farmers are always viewed by a local government, because there may be other interests and considerations in a local government, and at that time I was not malicious, where I might even assume a more gloomy picture, when, let's say, external actors make the mayor or certain corporate representatives interested in making decisions. So, aside from that, other aspects play a role in a municipal decision, which is obvious, as in, say, a decision taken within the framework of a land committee. However, due to the politicisation of the Chamber, I consider this amendment to be dangerous and difficult to accept. It would be much better if we could talk about this as a purely professional question. With regard to the amendment on organic farming, I can say that I have received many complaints, too, from our constituencies, where we have reception hours, by e-mail, by telephone, that a lot of people are abusing this high status. I do not understand why the legislator originally granted such a right of freedom. So at least the territorial conditions, say the 40 kilometers or the local housing, should have been taken into account when determining pre-lease and pre-purchase rights. And it was expected that, unfortunately, some people would take advantage of it. So we are not against a tightening-up here, but I really feel that the legislation has been over-extended, and we are proposing to adopt a more subtle version. As I understand it, the LMP has tabled or is about to submit an amendment, or, of course, we will make our proposal with similar content by the deadline, where, say, we would oblige those who undertake to cultivate this area in eco-management, to undertake this in writing for five years, and the MVH, or to whom it is intended as a task, to check it, or to show some sort of territorial limit, a local housing. However, I find it excessive that new entrants are virtually impossible by the system itself. Just because the pace of organic farming in Hungary, the extent of areas managed in this way, would not only increase, which would otherwise be projected by the domestic and world trends, but rather be in decline. So if someone told me in 2010 that, in six years' time, we would have had to talk in the Hungarian Parliament about the fact that there is less or the number of areas cultivated in this way, then I think that we would all have looked at it strangely here, so in some way we need to help it spread. Of course it's not because of the speculation abuse you've already told me, so obviously this has to stop, but I really feel a little over-extensive here. And speaking of amending the Land Traffic Act, despite the fact that the amendment is also dealing with real problems, we could talk here about much more serious problems with the law. I am very sorry that only these slices have been opened by these two amendments. It would have been so much better if we'd started all the paragraphs again, talked them through. There is enough time, enough experience behind us to draw the conclusions that are necessary to finally have a functioning earth traffic law for Hungary. It is not only in these cases that there are problems with him. Moreover, there was a promise that a comprehensive earth traffic law amendment would be brought before the House after all these years of experience. Unfortunately, we continue to miss these. And while you're here, Secretary of State, I would be very happy to have an answer to the fact that perhaps the law on plant regulation, the law on family farms, or even the cooperative law, which we keep counting from six months to six months, and they promise us when it will come before the House. Yet it would make sense to change the future of the Hungarian countryside and agriculture in a package, together with the Land Traffic Law, and it would make sense to talk about the future of the Hungarian countryside and agriculture, as this could also form the basis on which to build a stable one. I know it's a very convenient situation for you where you don't have to tell you what a family farmer means, what a small farmer means, what a medium means, because you can continue to throw words and words at them by helping them, but I think it would be normal for us to finally clarify that. Especially after the sixth year of government. So, overall, these were our most important criticisms of the amendment. In this way, the Jobbik fraction cannot support the proposals before us in this form. We are submitting our amendments to him, and we can change our opinion accordingly. Thank you for the floor, Mr President. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2016-05-23-322	Thank you, Congressman. I give the floor to Congressman Sallai R. Benedek, LMP.
u2016-05-23-323	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, Honourable Congressman, I, too, have been very suspicious about this proposal, because since the last substantial measure of the President of Magos, since he announced the land privatisation here, he has quite betrayed his confidence in me as to whether what he writes is good. I have looked at the legislative amendment proposal in detail, and I think it is worth considering whether, in principle, we should talk about or deal with the earth traffic law, because these amendments really point to its inadequacy along with many others, as my fellow opposition Members have already said. Basically, I wasn't here, the majority of you were here, and I looked back at the dispute of the Land Traffic Act with interest. In particular, it was said in the debate that the Land Traffic Act would work in one way: if a detailed and good plant regulation law or an integration law were drawn up for it, a good cooperative law would be prepared for it, and all of which together would ensure the functionality that has not been implemented to date. The measures that you have incorporated, whether we are talking about organic farming, which is now part of a specific amendment, or other measures of this kind, we simply need to see that time has shown that they are not working well. I took it with great interest, and I think I literally wrote it down when my Fidesz fellow Member, Mr Horváth, specifically said that he experienced an abusive use of organic farming. [[21.20]] The interesting thing is that this abusive application is just as valid as, let's say, the Chamber is starting to train now, at the moment, goldfish farmers. This is important, as my fellow Member Horváth has also said, because it is a great danger for an unprecedented person to want to take on this type of farming. It is interesting that it is not a great danger when, without farming experience, let us say, an ex-secretary's wife buys land from the state and wants to start farming on it. So if we get 100,000 acres out of our hands and there's a bunch of people out there who don't have any management history, you don't think they're a threat, but if someone says that I grew up downtown or in Buda, I want to move out to a village, and I want to start organic farming on three acres, you think they're a big, big threat. However, I understand the problem, so I see what this amendment wants to focus on, but I do not feel good about the proposal. It is basically a question of whether the abusive application of organic farming, which the President is absolutely right, must indeed be prevented, but the question is whether it is possible to expect it to be possible in all cases. If a person claims to want to carry on organic farming, then it must be allowed to do so. I am just now asking the FM with a written question about where the national strategy on organic farming is going according to the specific indicators. I did not ask for the size of the area on purpose, because in the application of organic grasslands, they will certainly be able to produce a meaningful result, while the Hungarian market access of Hungarian products, which are produced by Hungarian producers, does not increase, the quantity of coated producers does not increase, it only increased in the case of organic grassland. If the government wants to achieve what it rightly stated in its own strategy, to increase the amount of land where substantial value-creating organic production takes place from the current 130 thousand hectares to 300 thousand hectares, then such measures are necessary. The question is how it is needed and how it can be prevented from necessarily being abused. If an organic farming certificate is required, it is essentially assumed that no one else can start it, but a person who is already farming, and certainly has this certificate. In practice, they block the opportunity from those who say that for such a situation, so as to say, be able to exercise the right of pre-emption, they take that step and thus increase the proportion of areas involved in organic farming or organic farming in Hungary. I promise the President that I will make a clear amendment to this. I understand the problem, and I support the possibility of eliminating abusive application, and I would even support the need to require the restoration of the original status for those who have used such pre-emptive rights so far, if they had not started organic farming in the area, I would go this far if I had to. This makes sense in one way: that is, if this legislation can actually increase the number of areas involved, only in this way and in no other way. So, in this case, I am sure that I will have some proposal to try to support or strengthen this process, because obviously this loophole must be left out. However, this leaves a lot of other loopholes open in the system, because, for example, if your law and your options hadn't created the possibility that for anyone as a gold-cut farmer, just like the lawyers in Pest you're talking about, this should be so easily accessible, then this option wouldn't be such a real danger. The problem is that not only did you leave a loophole like this, but also for your own interests, who are now cutting in the field-privatisation, they also left this loophole with the goldfish farmers' training, which could be a good measure at that time - and then you can confront what the then parliamentary politician of the LMP said at that time. Because why shouldn't it be possible for a person to buy land not for the purpose of acquiring or enriching property, but for farmers? At the same time, the provision, as it is now in the Land Traffic Act, has practically restored feudal relations before 1848, when it can be said that only those with money can buy land. It is now without further ado that someone can sit on the estate of Lőrinc Mészáros in a tractor for the rest of his life, or stand next to a pig or a cattle, in such a way that he may not be able to go to this training, spend his whole life in agricultural production, and not obtain the right to obtain land, only if he has the money to pay for this training, while lawyers in Pest, such as those who talked about how Vattan had a pre-emptive right, were given the opportunity. So my first impression is that you are not dealing with the real reasons, but are trying to solve the real problems. The real problem here is that the right of land grabbing has been defined by giving the target group, which you claim not to support in words, access without further delay. The problem with such a loophole - because the real goal is, as it is seen from the land-privatisation process - that political persons close to you, not the President, and not those who farm life-style, let's say, for a longer time, but those who never farm, can buy land. The problem is, what hurts you is that other people live with these loopholes, and if we leave the loopholes and the loophole is open, you can go in there, and not just a fidesz secretary of state and not just a fidesz relative will live with this loophole, but the one who still has the chance to walk through this loophole. It would be the elimination of these loopholes and such loopholes that could deal with real causes and put agricultural land in a position that serves real goals. At the same time, the May Other is the political faction, one sure, committed to achieving in Hungary the highest number of ecological farming areas in order to achieve food safety and basically to achieve chemical safety, chemical safety, in the interest of soil protection, and to allow farmers who undertake to take advantage of land purchase rights at any level, but only those who do so and only if they do so, and in all other cases to close all other gates; that is the case. Now, that's where, on some level, if we sit down, talk, or submit an amendment, we can come to an agreement. The other one. It would be very, very difficult of this, but unfortunately - the President knows my opinion, I basically do not recognise the national agricultural chamber for what he says he is, because I do not admit that there is a body to which compulsory entry is required, and then 7 percent of those who know what this body will receive, elect an official arm, put it there, and give us permissions to do so. I will return to the same point that I mentioned earlier, to the debate of the Land Traffic Act 2013, which is always an exciting reading to me, I recommend to all of you, because since then it has been like a big turn in the world. During that period, Fidesz MPs also argued that local communities should have the right to have the right to have an impact on land traffic. You said then that your parliamentary representatives in the same debate that local communities have the local knowledge to make the wisest decisions. Compared to this, you practically put this right into law, not to give it to local communities, but to the Chamber of Agriculture. You say from your own position that there is local knowledge, too, that is local at some level, and I say no, because the Chamber of Agriculture is a political organisation that makes political decisions. This has been clarified in our last Commission debate with the President, where it has been said - when we look at other agricultural chambers, for example, in Austria - that there is no need to be ashamed of it when it is close to the government at some level. And I would like to see a Chamber of Agriculture once I become a voluntary member, which is not close to the government, but at all times represents the interests of farmers, which we see at present to a lesser extent than the fact that it represents the government vis-à-vis farmers. So to sum up, basically, we're talking about the failure of the land traffic law. I agree with my MSZP fellow Member and his keynote speech, we can basically talk about the fact that this cannot fulfill the hopes attached to it. A few years have passed now, you have the information background to see how the introduction of the Land Traffic Act has affected the Hungarian estate system, and you must see the concentration that is clearly displayed in some cases in the countryside, in the local population, clearly, how this has helped the family concentration of the agricultural land, and how this contributes to the strengthening of the major estates. The consistency of this should be deducted and several details of this regulation should be re-evaluated. To sum up, I can say that this case is about a very small segment of the deficiencies of the Land Traffic Act, there are many other shortcomings that should be addressed, many other amendments should be tabled, so that the goals that Fidesz has rightly and very often expressed in relation to such problems before 2010 can be addressed, but at the moment I think that this simple codification text that we see on organic farming cannot achieve its objective well. So this may otherwise be to be supported in order to eliminate abuses, as I said, I could be a partner in this, but strengthening any customer rights of the national agricultural chamber is not acceptable to us; not because it is not practical, not because there is no legal need for this, but because we basically agree that, in accordance with the original spirit of the law, local communities, local land committees, should be given back, as far as possible, the right of provision to affect the local land market. Once this is achieved and an amendment is tabled, it will be what we can support. Thank you for the floor, Mr President. [[21.30]]
u2016-05-23-324	Thank you, Congressman. I give the floor to Mr Zsolt Legény, MSZP.
u2016-05-23-325	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, In the previous bill, I have already said that the Hungarian Socialist Party considers the practice of submitting a bill in the form of a motion from individual representatives to be particularly harmful. That's what we saw here. The individual representatives of Mr Győrffy's Members submitted the proposal in the form of a motion. We also said that against this legislative formula, although we know that President Font said that this is the right of Members, we know that this is their right for Members, but that the government is not submitting these legislative proposals, we regard it as particularly harmful. So I have to say here, too, that we want the ruling parties to refrain from this method. By the way, this bill basically covers two professional issues. On the one hand, it seeks to settle the legal capacity of the National Chamber of Agriculture, acting under local ground management, and to establish technical provisions preventing the exercise of abusive pre-purchase and pre-lease rights to organic farming. The individual motion of the Presidents of Magos and the National Chamber of Agriculture concerns laws and instruments which the Hungarian Socialist Party did not already agree with. Consequently, the Hungarian Socialist Party did not accept or accept the government's land laws, including its amendments, in a clear way. Neither did the MSZP understand nor agree with the personal composition and operation of the Land Publishing Committees. We believe that the National Chamber of Agriculture, which we believe to be occupied by the Fidesz politicians, as my fellow Member Sallai has already mentioned, does not perform its fundamental task and does not function as a representative organisation, but as a virtually a... [[To interrupt Balázs Győrffy.]] . Yes, I have a debate about this, in principle, with Congressman Győrffy, who is the president of the National Chamber of Agriculture. He always tells us that this is a public body, and we think that he should also do his job as a representative. In any case, bad and unacceptable government solutions are not improved by amendments and, above all, by changes made by individual government representatives. In view of this, the Hungarian Socialist Party will not be able to support this bill. Mr President, thank you for this opportunity.
u2016-05-23-326	Thank you very much, Congressman. I will ask if anyone else wishes to take the opportunity to speak. [[No one's reporting.]] I do not see any further comments. Dear Parliament, The general debate is closed. I now give the floor on behalf of the authors to Mr Balázs Győrffy, who clearly wishes to respond to what has been said.
u2016-05-23-327	Thank you very much, Mr. President. First of all, thank you for your professional contributions. I think that these make sense, and indeed, who has an open eye, sees that we should try to find a solution to the existing problem. Mr. Bellman, I am very sorry you weren't there at the committee meeting. There I gave some examples that I might have been able to convince him of. [[István Gábor Bellozó: I have read it.]] Then, if you've read it, I'm especially sorry I failed to convince you. Obviously, I can't argue with his political side, because every party has the sovereign right to support a conceptual issue or not. However, in the particular situation where we are trying to solve an existing problem, I think that you are in a difficult situation against a farmer who would expect the Hungarian legislator, the Hungarian Parliament, to resolve this in some way. I think - and obviously we are not on the same platform with these opposition parties - that the new earth traffic regulations have closed a lot of loopholes that they could use before. At the same time, it is factual and perhaps there is no debate between us: however, there are some loopholes left that we must strive to close. This is what we are proposing with my fellow Member James to try to clarify a legal situation that is now considered dumping and causes very serious damage to the Hungarian countryside. I would like to ask the Member, which I would rather say in brackets, not to attempt to draw the Chamber and the Ministry together. In the afternoon, we had a very pleasant and constructive discussion. [[Interviews from the benches of MSZP and Jobbik.]] and there are no such vibes between the two organizations, the wallet and the chamber. And I could tell the lead speaker of Jobbik, Zoltán Magyar, that the Chamber is a versus political situation: Congressman Sallai has brought up the Austrian Chamber, so let me bring it here. It's completely politicized, almost a hundred years ago, and imagine, Congressman, perhaps within ten years they asked the chamber members what they would say about this system, and more than 90 percent said that it doesn't bother him that the Chamber is politicised in this form. It's a question of abuse. We will not be able to abuse, honourable Member, the fact that the Chamber's legal capacity in court is established by the law, as we simply want to defend our position in court. We do not want to impose our position on anyone, but I also gave the example of building an investor playground in the public area of one settlement - what God gives! - he was able to motivate the body of representatives to give the investor the opportunity to buy land, otherwise, contrary to the Chamber's resolution, by playing out local farmers. We wanted to prove this in court and defend our position in court that this was not in line with the spirit of the earth traffic law. And why are we trying to touch this now? Of course, it is always possible to say that this problem could have been resolved sooner, and perhaps it can be agreed. Congressman, I'm sure you know that this kind of abuse has just become a mass, and you've just come up on a mass level that I believe we have a duty as legislator to deal with. And I would like to say that new entrants are not made impossible by this kind of regulation that we propose. They are not prevented from starting organic farming, we simply believe that it is not realistic that there is a land on the other side of the country, and I say with zero practice that when the existing lease agreement on ad Absurdum expires in 10-20 years, I want to start organic farming there. I would like to emphasise once again and also to say to my fellow Member, Róbert Sallai, that it is obviously a common goal, and I think we can agree, regardless of the faction, that the aim of the Hungarian agricultural economy must be to strengthen organic farming and create a higher culture of production. In this, we absolutely agree, and I would like to express our openness to find a solution that is also appropriate for the opposition to this problem, because we do not have a proliferation of professional chauvinism when we are trying to find a solution to this proposal, but we do want to create an exact relationship for local farmers. My fellow Members of the opposition say that the earth traffic law is not good, it has failed. I don't want to surprise you. I don't agree. But when we want to correct your existing mistakes, they don't support it. But that's a lot harder for me to understand. My fellow Member Sallai said that he felt that access to organic farming should be facilitated, facilitated, and, on the other hand, access to the farmer's register should be tightened. Indeed, this is a big-great dilemma, when the land traffic law was created, there was a lot of debate about where the equilibrium is, even within the ruling party, which we think is optimal, because obviously it is impossible to close the farmers' circle in a hermetic manner, because then, with young people, new entrants are completely excluded from the system. I myself know someone who, at the age of 40, came to the conclusion that he was moving to the countryside, and he would like to do so, and he would not do so in a bad way. However, I would like to clarify a misunderstanding, and I am following the bad example here, as my fellow opposition Members have shown, that we are starting to talk not about the amendment tabled, but about the general debate on a complete agricultural economic overview. Not only can a man be a farmer with a golden pedigree. If someone checks in as an ancestor and starts doing a job or mime on a tenth of a hectare, or pretends to be able to enter with it, by the way. [[Intercoms.]] There's a chance they can do that. [[István Gábor Bellozó intervenes.]] [[21.40]] As regards the amendment proposal, I would like to stress for many times: we are open, we are interested in solving the problem, and we are also happy to meet with a group of groups to find a solution that could, say, be consensual. What motivates us is the abusive exercise of this ecological farming status, because it is an amazing problem that must be dealt with once and for all. Indeed, I agree with my fellow Member Sallai, and, in my opinion, the restoration of the original state is neither from the devil, where appropriate, nor from my view, since this kind of abuse does not strengthen organic farming, because these people, who now obtain land on the basis of organic farming, do not become organic farmers. By the way, I have heard a lawyer say: why, on a 20-acre area, how many square meters will it be necessary to carry out organic farming? So there is a lack of intention, and this is unacceptable, I think, for all of us. Thank you, Mr. President.
u2016-05-23-328	Thank you, Congressman Balázs Győrffy. Dear Parliament, The amendments may be submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. Dear Parliament, It follows from the 2007 Annex XVII on certain aspects of the procedure relating to agricultural, agricultural and rural development and fisheries aid and other measures. Act CXXVI of 2012 on the Hungarian Chamber of Agriculture, Food Economics and Rural Development. General discussion of the bill amending the law until closure. The submission submitted by Mr Balázs Győrffy Fideszes, Member T/10518. is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, I give the floor to Mr Balázs Győrffy, the rapporteur of the item on the agenda, in a 30-minute time frame.
u2016-05-23-329	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, The bill before us concerns two areas to be regulated. One of them is the issue of legitimate land use, and it would be important for Parliament to make a quick decision here, since we will soon arrive at the need to prove legitimate land use in disputes, if any, after submitting a single application. We would like to provide clarification in three areas, which I would like to mention now: in the case of interim measures imposed by a court, in the case of cooperative land use rights until the end of the share issue, and in the case of a forest economy using areas for defence purposes, legitimate land use is not at the moment established in an exact manner from the legislation, so I think that it would be important to clarify this before there is a need for proof of legitimate land use. The second half of the legislation contains a clarification, which would clarify the right to issue certificates of origin when it comes to agricultural products. The National Chamber of Agricultural Economy and its predecessor have been exercising this right for ten years now. I think that this is an absolute professional issue, perhaps not necessarily on a political scale, simply that the issue of certificates of origin is not properly regulated at the moment. It is important that, for export products, this certificate of origin, which is also the first step for a person to appear on the external market, can be carried out in an exact manner for producers of agricultural products, simply and in accordance with routine, smooth practices that have been used so far. Mr. President, thank you very much.
u2016-05-23-330	Thank you very much, Congressman. I ask if Mr György Czerván wishes to comment on behalf of the government. [[György Czerván rises to speak.]] It says yes. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2016-05-23-331	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Mr Balázs Győrffy's bill aims to fine-tune a problem that the legislation was able to resolve about a year ago to the great pleasure of farmers, but experience has shown that cases that may arise during the diversity of everyday life have been omitted. The legal land use institution is linked to the verification of the use of area payments. Prior to 2009, an application for aid for direct area payments could be submitted by the farmer who had incurred the costs and risks associated with recovery in the area used. The introduction and application of the concept of legitimate land use as a condition of support in Hungary has been justified by an EU audit by the European Commission, so the concept of a legitimate land user has been included in the Hungarian aid legislation since 2009. According to EU requirements, Member States should ensure the existence of a relationship between the landowner and the applicant for direct payments, the parcel must be at the disposal of the claimant. However, as to the justification of this, a number of cases have arisen where the best-intentioned farmers have not been able to meet the requirements of the legislation because of any circumstances beyond them, but have therefore fallen short of the possibility of obtaining the aid. The provisions of the relevant law currently in force, although we sought full wording a year ago, unfortunately they did not contain land users under judicial interim measures or cooperative land use rights, as well as those using the defence area under a contract. This amendment fills this gap. These three cases, which have been left out of previous legislation, can be said to have a very small number of farmers, but it is obviously very important for those affected to have access to area payments. It was also the case law of everyday life that raised the grounds for clarifying the strict rules on the unlawful use of aid along the lines of life. Under the rules in force, the disclosure of any incorrect or false information causes the aid to be unauthorized, regardless of whether it was related to the purpose of the aid. It is imperative to clarify that the undue aid penalty should be applied only as a result of the fact that the aid condition has been declared false. Dear Parliament, The government supports the bill, so do the same. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-05-23-332	Thank you very much, Secretary of State Czerván. Dear Parliament, Now we're going to hear the speeches from the lead speaker. First, I give the floor to Mr István Horváth, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group.
u2016-05-23-333	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, I'm trying to be brief with my speech. My fellow Member Balázs Győrffy's proposal for an amendment to justify legitimate land use is based on the practical experience of applying the MVH procedural law. These important additions allow farmers to apply for EU aid in other very specific cases. Following the entry into force of the new Customs Act, it is appropriate, in accordance with previous practice, that the body issuing the certificate of origin under the Community Customs Code for agricultural products and foodstuffs should continue to be the National Chamber of Agriculture. On this basis, the Fidesz fraction is T/10518. It agrees with and supports the proposal and calls on the other parliamentary groups to do so. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-05-23-334	Thank you, Congressman Horváth. I now give the floor to Mr Gábor Harangozó, the lead speaker of the MSZP Group.
u2016-05-23-335	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear fellow Members, As I pointed out in my previous speech, I must clearly state and object to the fact that we are once again dealing with an individual motion for an amendment tabled by the President of the Chamber of Agriculture. However, in substance, I am no longer able to object to this amendment, since it does indeed correct technical problems that make aid clearer and easier to use with these changes. Practically, as has been said in the proposal, the three directions are basically fine, thus extending the range of legitimate land users. If I may in such a dispute, I would also like to ask you that, at point 2, you refer only to the fact that, in respect of the aid condition, the penalty for undue aid has been imposed, because of what practical experience this amendment had to be tabled, because it has not been said at the committee meeting, and now it has not been mentioned in the submission. I would like to thank the rapporteur for being able to supplement his presentation with this in order to explain this. [[21.50]] I should like to say to point 3 - continuing my previous comment - that I should be particularly pleased, because it is about marking the Chamber of Agriculture to the body of origin for agricultural products and foodstuffs, to which the rapporteur said that it is doing so because of professionalism. I think the direction is good, so the agricultural chamber should also be done by the Ministry and I think Mr President is a minister, because there is professionalism and there they can find problems and fix them, I just don't know why the Ministry is sitting in the horseshoe, and that's still my problem with this whole exercise. Finally, I am not talking about the presentation, but in the previous debate, there was also a general comment by President Balázs Győrffy. As far as the land user is concerned, he said that not only the gold - peddling farmer can be a land user, but also, for example, an ancient farmer who cultivates the land. I would like to add that it is in the record that he is either the Prime Minister's Minister, because, as we know, he also bought land there, obviously because he is a legitimate land user. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2016-05-23-336	Thank you, Congressman Bellozó. I now give the floor to Mr Zoltán Magyar, the lead speaker of Jobbik's group.
u2016-05-23-337	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Fellow Members! As we discussed at the Agriculture Committee meeting, the Jobbik faction can support the proposal. We agree with the most important objectives that the rapporteur has said, and we support them, so we have minor comments that we will make in the form of an amendment to the legislation, but they do not affect its content. So the Jobbik faction will be able to support it. Thank you, Mr. President. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2016-05-23-338	Thank you very much, Congressman. I give the floor to Congressman Sallai R. Benedek, the lead speaker of the LMP Group.
u2016-05-23-339	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, Dear fellow Member, Basically, the issue of declared legitimate use of land is a very complex issue. Fortunately, a year ago, we managed to address the part of this problem that partly affected the undivided commons, on the motion of individual representatives of our fellow Member Mr Font, and he is trying to remedy another problem of this kind, as far as I can see. The first question arises in me, but this is obviously such a gossip or tabloid level, that it arises that I have seen on the list of Hungarian authorities to be abolished the Office for Agriculture and Rural Development, published by the Prime Minister's Office. I don't know what will happen to the MVH or what will carry out this task, but in any case, if it remains so, or if something inherits its powers, I'll tell you what the Chamber could possibly add to such proposals. Forgive me for giving you personal examples, but we know that what we experience in our own lives is what we experience. In particular, I had to buy property papers at my own expense several times last year only to prove to the MVH that the areas were actually mine, because there was no declared use of land, let's say, on a small closed garden, which was otherwise drawn. At the moment, the administrative principle is that the client must always make the minimum costs in an administrative procedure and what can be obtained from the authorities must be obtained. The MVH has no further insight into the ownership structure, has no further insight into the land-use structure, yet it is causing inconvenience to thousands of farmers by systematically calling into question, or possibly by making, the use of legal land in addition, of land-use rights to the farmer, thereby delaying the area payments. I do not know whether this motion will contribute to the involvement of new eligible areas. I would like to thank you if you would like to comment in your reply, and I would like to know why you have not had access to it, or why you have not been able to arrange your use of the territory in this way if you have a contract of use. If this is all that is formally involved in the adoption of a contract of use or agreement on the MVH as a legitimate use of land, I believe that this is a Eligible motion and perhaps this can be implemented. However, if we are to increase the amount of areas to be supported, we need to look at the practice that the MVH is doing in many other cases at the moment, as we now have to play on an annual basis with the definition of eligible areas. As a typical example again, the local water company takes the EU funds and cleans out the trench, puts all the sediments on the edge of the soil in the way they shouldn't, and there is a 3 meter strip lost. What's the MVH doing? It notes that no production takes place there and initiates the elimination of this as an eligible area. However, greening would be in the interest of the farmer whose land has been loaded so that he can at least include in the greening a band which he cannot otherwise use for production. These are everyday problems, because... [[Balázs Győrffy intervenes.]] Yeah, I believe you, because these are everyday exercises. Where there is such a pile of land that has been removed for some reason, it has a bushed, slooped line, laces line, the MVH goes out, eliminates the position of this in the eligible block, but the farmer can't include it in the greening from then on, even though it would be a perfect greening area as a bird's habitat and as a pile of other locations. My question, by the way, I would like to know what effect this will have, because this year, according to preliminary indications, if MVH is in decline, farmers can suffer up to 10 percent withdrawal, even though the territory of Hungary has not increased, thus increasing the number of eligible areas, this area payments will not be negatively affected. If not, then I think that producers who have any credible documents that have a legitimate use of an area can accept them and extend the scope of legitimate use of territory to include examples given by the Member. Forgive us for always accepting with suspicion who you want to give concrete support to on these items, but basically we can help farmers by clarifying these items and expanding legitimate land use. By the way, it is only interesting to say that in 2013 there was a temporary provision that limited the possibility of these. Obviously, the long-term solution would be that, since the government cannot deal specifically with the issues of a number of such very difficult areas, and I have just mentioned the issue of undivided commons, where even decades may pass by legally using one's own land and not being able to report land use in the Land Office, because I am not talking to other land users, not owners, so I am not talking about the time when it should now conclude agreements with a thousand owners under current legislation, but if there are only two or three land users, it can agree with them. In any event, a permanent solution would be to change the possibility of filing a land register legally and to accept civil law contracts or bilateral agreements certifying such rights of use and to register it as legitimate land use. This will be a solution in the long term, but obviously we need to solve the problem of how the requirements arising from EU harmonisation can be bypassed without harming Hungary's interests, since EU harmonisation does not take into account Hungary's special features, which, for example, affected by the undivided community or the socialist heritage with cooperative or defence areas. This will be the permanent solution. Obviously, as a transitional measure, this can make life easier for some, and it can therefore be supported. We will discuss this with the faction during the detailed debate. Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President.
u2016-05-23-340	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, According to the screen, no one has applied for a speech, but I will ask if anyone would like to comment. [[There's no candidate.]] I still don't see any sign of him. Dear Parliament, The general debate is closed and, if you wish, I will give the floor to the rapporteur, Mr Balázs Győrffy, Fidesz. [[22.00]]
u2016-05-23-341	Thank you very much. First of all, I would like to thank the opposition for its constructive attitude, and on the part of all the factions, I saw that it was looking for a solution to this amendment, perhaps apart from Mr Harangozó's efforts to increase the tension between the Ministry and the NAK - obviously some sort of faction order, because it is already a recurring element - its manifestations of this kind. As before, allow me to refuse to do so, so that I may play the political role that I am obviously obliged to accept in this charade to invite you. [[Dr. István Hiller, vice-president of the Parliament, takes the chair.]] The point on the allegation of a false fact: Mr President, what I would like to achieve is that if a person claims any false facts about land use where appropriate, he should be able to recover the area payment in whole or in part. That is all the proposal applies. Thank you for your support from Jobbik. On the part of the LMP, I also thank you for approaching the issue by focusing essentially on the problem, not necessarily politically. I would like to say to my fellow Member that our aim is not to increase the volume of eligible areas. I'll give you an example: where appropriate, a shooting range is not only suitable for sharpshooting there, let's say, but also perfectly suitable for grazing. We believe that it is important to settle its status, because there is indeed an agricultural production activity. So, in this way, the use of area support for these natural legal persons who are farmers there, especially in relation to livestock farming, can be of particular benefit and I consider it eligible. Once again, thanks to the constructive attitude of the opposition, I trust that we will be able to adopt this legislation with great support. Mr President, thank you very much for the floor.
u2016-05-23-342	Thank you very much. Good evening. After stabilizing the situation, I would like to inform you that the amendment proposals can be tabled by 16:00 on Thursday. Dear Parliament, The 2012 CLXXXV on waste follows. General discussion of the bill amending the law until closure. The government referral is T/10530. The information document of the State Audit Office is available on the parliamentary IT network. I declare that the presentation will be discussed as an EU item on the agenda by the Parliament. First, I give the floor to Mr Zsolt V. Németh, Secretary of State of the Ministry of Agriculture, author of the item on the agenda. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2016-05-23-343	[[No sound.]] Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, The 2012 CLXXXV on waste. Since its entry into force on 1 January 2013, we have been able to observe positive changes in waste management: the amount of waste used in the material is constantly increasing in parallel with the decrease in waste. This appears in our daily lives by using more and more selectively collected waste to produce, for example, plastic or paper. [[He's pinning his microphone.]] Excuse me. In numbers, this means that while in 2012 25.5 per cent of waste was used in material, this ratio increased to 30.5 per cent by 2014. There is still a high amount of waste in Hungary, taking into account the Member States of the European Union. However, as the amount of recovered waste increases, the amount of waste to be recovered is constantly decreasing. The reduction is also due to the deposit contribution introduced by the entry into force of the Waste Act, which is the sum of HUF 6,000 per tonne this year. The introduction of a dumping levy has encouraged industrial operators, as it is not only environmentally but economically worthwhile to use waste. The impact of the introduction of the landfill levy on the amount of municipal waste to be disposed of can also be clearly demonstrated: in 2012 the percentage of waste deposited decreased to 57.5 per cent by 2014. One of the key objectives of the draft legislative amendment before you is to further promote this positive trend by simplifying, on the one hand, the obligation to pay the dumping contribution and, on the other hand, extending it to additional waste. There is a need to focus on industrial waste, which can be used and which are typically already covered by the deposit obligation in other Member States of the European Union. It is clear and clear to everyone that the waste value, our existing landfill, should be filled only with waste that cannot be used otherwise. This is further strengthened by the bill. To sum up, municipal landfills were essentially created for the reception of unused municipal waste and for the environmentally sound disposal of waste and not for the disposal of industrial waste. Therefore, there is no reason not to pay contributions for such waste. The extension of the contribution, the rationalisation of the system and the closure of the loopholes make the system sustainable. Simple regulation minimises the possibility of diverging interpretations, thus significantly reducing the administrative burden for stakeholders. Another priority area of the bill is the simplification of existing legislation on shipments of waste. The planned facilitations apply to entities that carry their own waste on their own vehicles, not on a commercial basis, but on an occasional basis, because they do not have the opportunity to properly collect and manage at the place where the waste is generated. These include external work, transport to another site or transport to the receiving place. As an example, I would like to mention external maintenance, installation work and waste generated by such activities. The transport of these waste streams has so far been one of the activities subject to authorisation, but on the basis of the amendment the data subjects are exempted from the obligation to obtain a permit to transport waste. The proposed amendment of the law will allow a government decree to be drawn up in the future, whereby economic operators can manage waste from manufacturing activities on simple terms, provided that they comply with the by-product criteria. The purpose of the amendment is also to ensure that the Waste Act complies with Article 7 (3) of the EU Waste Directive and to establish the power to publish the list of recovery and disposal operations in a ministerial regulation. Directive 2008/98/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council on waste and repealing certain Directives The transposition of Commission Directive 2015/1127/EU of 10 June 2015 amending Annex II to this Directive will therefore be ensured at ministerial level. Dear Parliament, Accordingly, I would ask the Honourable Parliament to support the adoption of this proposal on the amendment of the Waste Act by their contributions, professional proposals and votes. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2016-05-23-344	Thank you, too. Dear Parliament, Now we're going to have keynote speeches. First, I give the floor to Congressman Gábor Varga, the lead speaker of Fidesz. Here you go.
u2016-05-23-345	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, The 2012 CLXXXV on waste in front of us. T/10530. The aim of the bill is to simplify the waste disposal contribution payment scheme, based on practical experience. It creates the power to publish the list of recovery and disposal operations in a ministerial regulation, simplifies administrative and other entrepreneurship burdens, and also serves the purpose of EU harmonisation and interpretation and unification. [[22.10]] Ladies and gentlemen, The basic objective of introducing a landfill levy was to divert and increase the recovery of waste from landfills. The amount of the landfill charge would have been increased annually as originally intended. In 2013, it amounted to HUF 3,000 per tonne. As of 1 January 2015, Parliament fixed the amount of the waste disposal levy for an indefinite period at the 2014 level, i.e. the cost of disposal of waste covered by the waste disposal contribution by dumping is currently equal to HUF 6,000 per tonne. Dear House, The obligation to pay contributions introduced from 2013 was introduced in particular to dispose of municipal waste, construction waste and hazardous waste and to reduce their volume. In 2012, approximately 65.4 percent of municipal waste generated was deposited, with a rate of 64,6 percent in 2013, in the first year of the introduction of the landfill levy. By 2014, the proportion of municipal waste disposed of decreased to 57.5 per cent. In practice, this means that less than 400 thousand tonnes of municipal waste was disposed of in 2014 compared to 2012. At the same time, the share of the use of municipal waste has increased. As regards construction and demolition waste, there is a similar reduction in the amount of waste deposited and a decrease of more than 5% in the amount of waste deposited is also observed in relation to the disposal of hazardous waste. Ladies and gentlemen, The amendment also extends the landfill contribution to so-called industrial waste, as described in the detailed justification. In 2012, the European Commission commissioned a survey on the economic means of waste management, in particular on the application of landfill contributions in the Member States. Based on the study, the practice of the Member States is somewhat different, but there are several similarities. In general, for most Member States there is also a deposit fee for waste of industrial origin. As can be found in the detailed justification, municipal landfills were not set up to place industrial waste there and are therefore completely unjustified so as not to have to pay contributions for such waste. Contrary to the initial plans, therefore, a gradual increase of the landfill contribution in Europe is considered general, but the extension of the contribution and the closure of backdoors by simple regulation make the system sustainable. One feature of the amendment is that it seeks simplicity. Due to the uniform measure and few exceptions, the system is adapted to the simple state. Among the exceptions are large amounts of industrial waste - slag, ash - and asbestos waste, which is a daily problem for the population. A number of exceptions should not be made, as they could inevitably lead to different interpretations and possibly avoidance of contributions. It should be pointed out that the amendment of the rules on landfilling contributions will not increase the burden on the population. Ladies and gentlemen, The proposal includes facilitations for entities that carry their own waste on their own vehicles, not in operation, but occasionally, because they do not have the opportunity to resolve regular collection and treatment at the point of origin of the waste. The transport of these waste streams has so far been one of the activities subject to authorisation, but on the basis of the amendment the data subjects are exempted from the obligation to obtain a permit to transport waste. The amendment of the legislation allows a government decree to be drawn up whereby economic operators are able to manage under simpler conditions materials generated during manufacturing activities which have been considered waste until then if this meets the criteria for by-products, which will be regulated in detail by the Government Decree authorised in the draft. The draft also aims to achieve a uniform interpretation of the law and to reduce administrative burdens. Dear Parliament, On this basis, I ask the Honourable Parliament to vote in favour of the adoption of the bill. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Zsolt V. Németh applauds.]]
u2016-05-23-346	Thank you very much. Now it's time for the head speaker of the MSZP, Congressman Gábor Bellozó. Please give him the voice. Here you go.
u2016-05-23-347	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, This seems to be a night like this, but I can't help but continue to repeat my view in previous speeches that this bill is an eloquent proof that the Ministry of Agriculture is completely incapable of carrying out its duties, that its minister is completely unfit to lead the ministry, and it is about time for him to resign and look for something else, because he has done enough harm to this country with what he is doing at the head of this ministry. Just so we're clear, we're looking at the latest amendment to the garbage law. There is nothing more eloquent about the failure of the Ministry than the fact that it was put into effect on 1 January 2013, since then it has been amended for the 26th time. It is allowed to be amended to 26 times, but the last amendment to Amendment 25 was made exactly a week ago. Well, congratulations, it also shows that, after excellent professional preparation, a very thoughtful thing is happening in this area. As far as this amendment is concerned, it would not actually be a professional problem with this amendment, because it is indeed a simplification, and the aim of this amendment is to achieve a uniform interpretation of the law, but to bring this to the 26th amendment, I think it is an amazing achievement. Maybe they're trying to get into some record book with this fantastic performance, but it's not worthy of government, that's for sure. What kind of system did they put together in the field of waste? Today, the whole system, Mr. Secretary of State, is currently struggling with a deficit of HUF 14 billion, and you have nothing to say about it. They have introduced a reduction in the rent that will ultimately be paid to the municipalities, but they do not allow the municipalities to obtain the necessary revenues, and even the State does not complement this. Therefore, if this is what I would like to do, I would draw your attention to the fact that we have tabled an amendment to the budget, which proposes to put this missing HUF 30 billion into the system, which would cover the costs incurred by the municipalities. If you cannot support this, not only on the whole waste management issue, what you are doing is unacceptable, but also on the budgets of the municipalities, you will have a terrible hole that will then lead to the reduction and deterioration of additional services in the municipalities concerned. Speaking of waste, let me bring you a very topical question, which also proves that your boss, the Minister, Minister Fazekas, should resign with immediate effect. I have recently asked you, the Minister, a written question asking you to clearly describe the amount of waste in terms of rubber waste in Hungary and the processing capacity. He made it clear that there is currently twice as much processing capacity in Hungary as there is rubber waste. However, after Mr Csányi decided to make a few billion more with the risk of harming the health of the people of Kaposvár, because he has not made enough contact over the past decades, the Ministry would not veto this investment, not only would it be necessary, because there is no need to create as many rubbers in Hungary as there is processing capacity, and there is no need to endanger the health of the Kaposvár people with an experimental investment, but rather to make it a key government investment, so that the locals would not even be able to talk about whether they want such a risky investment or not. [[22.20]] It's not the environment you're doing, it's not waste management. I think it's a dirty mess, both in terms of waste management and in terms of this vile investment. This proves that they are unfit to run this area, so one thing could be done to cancel this law, and another minister, hopefully, with another government - because their entire government should fail as it is - would be able to deal with this whole issue by introducing a decent waste management law. We do not support the absolution of this, so we will not support this amendment. Thank you so much for listening.
u2016-05-23-348	Thank you very much. Congressman Lajos Kepli, lead speaker of Jobbik. Here.
u2016-05-23-349	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen of the Council, In fact, this proposal does not contain in itself any elements that should be rejected, but, like our basic law on concrete strength, we already have a concrete-solid waste law, which is the case for many amendments. We already have a weekly waste bill before the House, which gives us the opportunity from time to time to criticize the current waste management system. However, I say that we should talk first of all about what is contained in the bill, because, as has already been said in the proposal, this amendment concerns shipments of waste and deposit contributions. In relation to shipments of waste, there is an facilitation in such a way that when waste generated by its own activities is transported between its premises or to the recovery company, and not on a commercial basis, but on a case-by-case basis, it can do so without a waste transfer permit. This would otherwise be a practical amendment, since this has so far caused problems in practice. I know, because at the time, I have put together a number of applications for waste shipments for entrepreneurs who have delivered their own waste from one site to another or to the recovery company, and this has caused them a great deal of administrative surplus. However, there is always the other side, which is to be taken into account, the extent to which the possibility of abuse is contained in a regulation, the extent to which it can be abused, who will verify whether the shipment, the transfer from one site to another, is waste generated by its own activities, or whether it is trying to disguise a commercial waste transfer activity. In any case, it is worth paying attention to the authorities. We have already expressed our criticism of the deposit contribution many times. If we try to introduce an incentive that diverts waste from landfills by applying a landfill charge, so to say, it punishes those who choose to dump, we do not necessarily help to prevent the production of waste, or we act according to the waste hierarchy. On the one hand, it could strengthen illegal waste disposal, on the other hand, it would strengthen recovery or energy recovery in its material if the conditions were given, because the landfill contribution alone is a new revenue for the government or the budget, but it does not contribute to the achievement of the waste management objectives, whether we look at the recycling rate or the EU waste management directive, which requires that waste is not deposited after 2030 or that cannot be disposed of or used in any other way. I don't think we're getting any closer to these goals. As regards the exceptions, there is still waste, ash, asbestos-containing waste of building materials and metallurgical waste from waste incineration, for which the debtor does not have to pay a landfill levy or, of course, in the case of recovery for construction purposes. It has been proven several times that the Waste Management Act has not fulfilled its expectations. Last time there was the establishment of a national central coordination organisation, which is forced to integrate or centralise otherwise loss-making waste management associations, and to use the profits of some profitable companies to try to keep loss-making companies economically in balance. In our opinion, the whole system should be transformed. There is still a lack of energy recovery leg for waste recovery. We have read in a background study carried out by the Assembly Information Service about the large scale of energy use of domestic municipal waste in Europe, including in Western Europe and Scandinavia, where environmental protection is very important. This is still represented by the one piece of cancer incinerator in Crab Palota, with its modest ratio, while Scandinavia and Sweden operate thirty-something incineration plants. Otherwise, I don't think the Scandinavians are sensitive to air quality or the safety of their environment. If we can generate heat and generate electricity through the recovery of waste - I note that by disposing of already pre-selected and fractions that are suitable for this and do not contain any hazardous waste - we can, if we can make use of this, achieve, as the Secretary of State has said, that the proportion of waste deposited has fallen from 60 percent to 57 percent, at least the proportion of waste deposited in the landfill; I think that is accurate. However, this could be reduced to a fraction, because at the moment there is something that is not economically worth recyclating in its material, but it has the right value to be used energyally. The concept is flawed, so this amendment contains proposals for amendments which may in itself be considered eligible. It is an indication of our part that we will express, either by abstaining or not voting in the final vote, what we think of the entire current waste management system or concept. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2016-05-23-350	Thank you very much. Congressman Sallai R. Benedek, lead speaker of the LMP. Here you go.
u2016-05-23-351	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, Thank you very much to my fellow opposition Members for a detailed analysis of the legislation, because I have less to say. I would like to thank my fellow Member, Mr Bellozó, for mentioning the shameful case in Kaposvár, because the government's thinking and culture of waste management is well illustrated by what they think about it. In the lead-up, let me draw the Secretary of State's attention to the contradiction in how the introduction of landfill charges can contribute to the reduction of municipal waste and then try to protect a legislative amendment that specifically removes elements from the payment of the waste contribution fee. This is obviously not the right, it is not a consistent procedure, because if we want to reduce the amount of waste, we must not create such facilitations. It is important to talk about this because my fellow Fidesz lead speaker said that it will make the system more sustainable. I think he meant economic sustainability, because it would be difficult to think about ecological or environmental policy with this waste management policy. However, let me draw attention to the fact that the functional landfill systems that now operate in Hungary have basically started to be created through ISPA support, and then from a multitude of EU grants, and their working time is 15-20-25-30 years depending on how they were sold and how much they were sold to. The problem is that if we cannot finance the current maintenance costs in accordance with the waste collection system because of the beneficial social effects of the reduction of the costs, then how will it be possible for a future government to manage this infrastructure at some point, when this becomes relevant, in different regions of the country one by one. After all, with the current waste management approach, we must be prepared to create a pile of new landfills within a decade or two, probably even higher, with much higher environmental requirements, I hope. [[22.30]] If we didn't include the costs of creating them now in the waste management system, I wouldn't expect anything to happen. This one, I think, is XV. Louis' policy is to follow me into the deluge. This is what I feel about this waste management concept is that it is not planned how it will be possible to maintain everything in the long term. But that is not why I do not support this, but, basically, because the amendment withdraws deposits such as non-hazardous waste from plant and incineration. Well, please, it's like I'm trying to support the incinerators on purpose. That's another step. The one thing you do not expect me to do, Mr Secretary, is to agree at any level that this type of waste management is a good course. My fellow Member Kepli, did, in proving his professional background, tell you or in his speech the system of waste hierarchy, which begins in any event with how to prevent waste from being generated and how to prevent waste from being produced, and then how to recycle it, how to recycle it in its material. Well, please, dumping and incineration are the worst treatments that exist. Obviously, we could also prepare for illegal landfills, which in many cases started in the Hungarian countryside because of the system of regional landfills, as many people are unable to take on the costs involved. However, basically, I should not be asked to contribute to the reduction in the contribution of the landfill of non-hazardous materials from plant and incineration. You will obviously understand this from a representative of a party with special environmental and nature protection aspects that this is difficult. Similarly, it does not want this from the cleaning of the flue gas, the disposal of the slag. Practically, they want to give an extra gift to those who create it at the site of the most dangerous waste that endangers air purity. The only thing I've been thinking about is the one thing I've taken with mixed feelings. 'Cause I'm happy for one thing, and this is asbestos waste. It's not because it's so good. In point (e), this is also included in the cancellation of the obligations to pay contributions for the disposal of building materials containing asbestos. This is interesting because obviously we all need to support asbestos from the Hungarian residential environment as widely as possible. Any way. This should be a very important asbestos removal target, and this should be helped. This is the one point on which I would consider in substance, but I am not convinced that this will be the measure to achieve meaningful results in the implementation of the asbestos removal programme in Hungary. So, overall, our group cannot support this amendment, primarily for environmental reasons. The main reason for this is that we want a waste management law, which would, in principle, seek to reduce and prevent waste generation through product fees, green taxes and wiser regulation, rather than an approach that facilitates the disposal of waste in some respects, and, in particular, another waste recovery or other waste processing sector, thus trying to remove the remainder of waste incineration without a waste contribution fee. For this reason, we cannot support the amendment. Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President.
u2016-05-23-352	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. No independent Member is in the room, no one has applied for a two-minute speech, and no one has applied for any further speeches. So I'm going to ask if anyone else wants to take the opportunity to speak. [[There's no candidate.]] I'm gonna say no. As no one has made any further comments, the general debate is closed. Secretary of State says you want to reflect. Here you go.
u2016-05-23-353	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, We have had a brief but instructive debate. Allow me, therefore, to talk about the division of government labour in the field of waste management before I turn to the bill. According to the government's decision, the waste public service was transferred to the Ministry of National Development, but this activity and the amount of waste are less than a quarter of the waste generated. So I would also like to say to Mr Bellozó that when these two are mixed, we should separate this. If I'm looking at the current bill, I'm talking about waste management as a whole, but not the public service. So with your permission, I'm going to cross this section. I certainly accept the criticism that we have indeed changed this law a lot, but even as a criticism of the law that was created in 2012, we do have some problems with it that we would like to correct. This is his inanimateness, his cumbersomeness, his excessive administrative burden. We present a system that lacks HUF 30 billion, said Congressman Bellozó. No. That's not the system we're presenting right now. We're not talking about the public service, which, by the way, is not about 30, but about ten billion. He's brought up the rubber waste case, which, on the other hand, really belongs to this area. Here I mention that there is indeed a significant capacity for rubber processing in Hungary, but their technical design or technical performance and technology are very different. The kind of idea that appeared in Kaposvár, and when appropriate licences are submitted, approved, executed and put into work, will certainly be a cutting edge technology, and will not produce rubber products that will be impossible to process at the end of the course of the product. So today's rubber processing has a number of problems. By the way, the technology you resent is considered excellent by the Hungarian Academy of Sciences and is one of the cutting edge technologies at European Union level. Mr Lajos Kepli said that there was indeed a need for regulation in the field of waste transport. Obviously, as a professional, you've seen many of these. We could tell by the day why, for example, waste from one site to another had to be obtained a waste management permit. Indeed, abuses will have to be eliminated, and we will pay attention to this in the implementing regulations and in the official work. On the other hand, I would like to argue with what has appeared in several places, and it has also been said from the mouth of Mr Sallai that the deposit contribution does not encourage the enforcement of the waste hierarchy. Yes! It inspires me. That's what the numbers show. You are also arguing with each other, because some are in favour of energy recovery, some are not. LMP, for example, is not. We're one of those who support you. But again, I have to say that this cannot be said in extreme terms, to burn or not to burn, but also to say where. Because there may be corners of the country from which waste can no longer be transported economically to an incineration plant. There, it is possible to make more use of waste after-selection and, in any case, more expensive recovery of extractable secondary raw materials. After all, we are following the path, because energy recovery cannot be everywhere. But I have no doubt that there is little energy recovery in waste management in Hungary, with about 9 percent energy recovery, which can be significantly increased. Several people have mentioned why we make exceptions to the deposit contribution. The reason we make the exceptions is because the waste that can no longer be used is not possible to make further use of. [[22.40]] So here you have achieved your goal of regulation itself. All types of recovery have been made, such as thermal recovery or other uses of waste, and its final product should be placed somewhere. I am convinced that the entry into force from 2030, in fact, is a zero drop, which should apply to the combustion product, but cannot be achieved in any other way, unless thermal recovery is also taken into account. "The concept is a mistake," said the congressman. We have a concept, which is one of the elements of this proposal: to pay attention to far greater industrial waste than municipal waste, and not to fill landfills unnecessarily. Or, for example, we are working hard on the regulations on construction and demolition waste, how we can produce secondary raw materials, which would, for example, reduce the desire to open a mine in Hungary, and how we can replace primary raw materials with them. The unviable regulations that were alive in the creation of the law should be removed, transformed, for example, on the issue of uncontaminated land, or, for example, on the simplification of the expression of by-products, in which there may indeed be danger. But I am convinced that this can be eliminated with the following scrutiny. Finally, let me tell you about asbestos. We would really like to help in the residential sector, because today, when a family house is rebuilt, there is an incredible burden on the builder to replace asbestos slate, which he would like to avoid in good times or in many cases. Here we would like to help and systematically resolve the possibility of installing asbestos roof materials, especially from the roof, at residential construction sites, but obviously there may be other elements of asbestos. So in this context, we want to take the first step, but it will not be left alone, but it will also require a number of other measures. Finally, let me thank you all for your attention, for your improvements, which, of course, we consider important, and which I have mentioned, we will consider and, where appropriate, we will integrate it into our work. Thank you for your attention.
u2016-05-23-354	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, I would like to inform you that the amendment proposals can be submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the discussion of our agendas today. It is now time for the speeches after the agenda. After the agenda, Mr Sallai R. Benedek, Mr LMP:. Windmills in peril. Here you go, Congressman.
u2016-05-23-355	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, For the second time today, windmills have been mentioned. For the first time, my fellow Member, János Pócs, was kind enough to bring to Parliament the case of the windmill in Túrkeve, which is only known to me that I have fought since 2005 to preserve, protect and preserve this architectural and industrial memory. Unfortunately, this activity did not produce any results.In 2008, the first competition was won, and then a year later, the second one. In one connection, a miller's house was created, the original miller's house was rebuilt and rebuilt. There a tourist center was created with a collection of landscapes collected from lofts and an exhibition in the interior of the windmill. Unfortunately, then came the change of government. Not at all, unfortunately; I'm sorry, I may have misjudged that. But there was a change of government or a change of regime, or what happened in 2010, and the settlements above 5000 were then excluded from the same European Agricultural and Rural Development Fund, which had previously organised such renovations. Thus, the tender could not continue. In 2012, we found a tourist tender, where I specifically described to the North Lowland Regional Development Agency that the windmill in Turkeve will collapse, the last of the 13 remaining windmills, so it should be a priority to renovate and preserve this. Unfortunately, due to a lack of resources, this application was rejected, so we did not have any further possibilities for renovation. The association, which dealt with this, had a new roof on it at its own expense to protect the investments and exhibitions it had made so far. In this state, the unfortunate tourkeves of Molnár's windmill have been in recent times. But why is that interesting? After all, not only did the Túrkeve mill collapse this year, in the last month, but last Christmas the windmill in Kunszentmárton collapsed, and during the Fidesz administration, the remaining few windmills in Kunfehértó and the upper holy windmills disappeared completely in 2010. What could be the reason for this? Basically, the windmills have ever defined the picture of the lowland, and we can go back to the Hungarians of the period of residence, because we brought from the original Őshaza the ability to grind grain, which has determined the lives of families for centuries, with handmills and small millstones. CHAPTER XVI From the first century onwards, water mills appeared in Hungary and tried to use hydropower for this purpose. Shortly thereafter, the dry mills, which tried to move the millstones with animal force, driven horse, or other cattle, appeared. Article 19 shall apply from the date of entry into force of this Agreement. The beginning of the century brought about a very serious change. Based on German Lowland culture and experience, windmills were introduced in Hungary, and the story of the Hungarian windmills came to a hundred-year-old story. After a very fast rise, the XX. By the beginning of the century, they were almost gone, and there were very, very few of them left. In 1873 there was most windmills in Hungary, mostly in lowland areas. At that time there were 854 windmills in Hungary, the vast majority of which were unfortunately demolished at the beginning of the century because of the materials that could be extracted from it. CHAPTER XX By the second half of the century, Hungary has very few such industrial monuments. There were about 90 windmills with which the country arrived by the millennium, and nearly one third of the 90 windmills have now completely disappeared. Part of these remains only a heap of ruins, and in many cases it was not possible. For my part, I would like to mention with great respect the work of author János Kovács, who summarized the situation of all existing windmills in Hungary in 2005 with the title. Yeah, what he thought was right back in 2005, there's one of those things that's already collapsed. I mention the two milles that collapsed in 2010 that the monument protection.hu still considered its condition to be good, compared to that the collapse was achieved. In Sándor Petőfi's poem "Kiskunság" he recalls: "At last, the city is there, / In the middle of the church, with its big tower, / Saneszaszét at the end of the city with windmills / wide sails. / I like to stand in front of the windmills! I look at these, / As they throw up their sails, they throw up / The cartwheels. These windmills are disappearing, about 30 in Hungary. Today, my fellow pro-government Members have counted on me here to see what I could do. Unfortunately, I failed ten years of work to preserve the windmill in Túrkeve, but the possibility of steering will give them the opportunity to save the remaining 30 windmills, since in recent years, no substantial conservation activities have been able to contribute to this. I am particularly pleased that Sándor Fazekas, who contributes to these attacks, as mayor of Karcag, can do so by learning from experience to preserve the windmill of Karcag for posterity. Thank you for the floor, Mr President. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2016-05-23-356	Thank you very much. Representative Zoltán Magyar is the speaker after the next agenda:. The bankruptcy of the papal meat plant is also taking place on small farmers? It's an address. Here you go.
u2016-05-23-357	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Fellow Members! The question of the papal meat plant is not first brought to Parliament, and there are several reasons for that. On the one hand, there are a lot of people involved in the story, and on the other hand, many of them are just small farmers, the ones who are the most vulnerable to the bankruptcy of the papal meat plant, who, in their communication, are constantly protected by Fidesz, the government constantly says that they are their preference. At the same time, the end of all such stories is that family farmers living on the ground are drawing the shortest. In addition, one more argument in favour of bringing this problem here several times, this whole set of problems, is that the papal meat plant has played a major role in the regional economy for many decades. It is also difficult to list cases of the destruction of different traditional plants in our country over the last decade. Only a few settlements are worth bringing here: Kaposvár, Kapuvár, Zalaegerszeg, Törökszentmiklós. These are all settlements where there have been long-standing meat plants, and for such reasons, because of various methods, but they have been destroyed in the last decade. [[22.50]] It's not the first time I've told you that I've seen a concept behind this, so we don't think it's a series of coincidences. It is clear here that the competition, which was supported by politics, regardless of the status of government, has led to this. We now understand, for example, why one of the largest and most modern meat plants in Europe is worth building in Hungary, and obviously the competition has been devastated before it. The fact that after our entry into the European Union, domestic livestock fell in a much faster way than usual, that is a fact, we too experience this and see it sadly, but at the same time we are doing everything we can to stop it, although our tools from opposition are obviously very limited, but this could also contribute to the government's doing nothing in the context of the decline in livestock, that these plants had reached the brink of bankruptcy. I am very sorry that we have not yet been able to clarify the processes leading to this. I tried to set up a committee of inquiry at the time to see what had led to this, as there was a lot of suspicious information, and, by the way, the pro-government politicians of the town of Pope also made such statements. At the time, this committee of inquiry was rejected by you, and in several written questions, I took note of the circumstances of this. Since then, the city has not been able to cope with this task. The fact that the government has let go of the city's hand, or how random it is, would also be worth investigating, and the committee of inquiry that I have already mentioned, and what I have said that I have been rejected, would again be appropriate. It would be good to know what has led us so far, but it is also worth learning, because unfortunately, we have not received a specific, correct answer to this, even with my written questions, how much money this has cost the taxpayers exactly. What impact studies preceded this decision, and why did they choose this model when the meat plant was supposed to be saved? The end of this is that he has now gone bankrupt again, and he owes his suppliers HUF 1.5 billion, a significant proportion of whom are local pig farmers. Here, too, I wanted to ask you about the exact figures, how much of this 1.5 billion you really owe producers. When will the state finally get into their compensation, in what way and under what conditions? I have had the pleasure of meeting several farmers who have actually invested their last source in these animals, the last family savings in these animals, and they are very, very much looking forward to receiving their dues. Unfortunately, it is not the first time these farmers have been deceived, and they have been continuously transported from a radius of 30 to 40 kilometers into the meat plant, and I know people who are on the losing side of the first bankruptcy, and now the second one, and their disguise has reached such a level that the government has risked the family's livelihood. So when I hear their word, I really hope to be able to get concrete answers about when they will be compensated, and in the event of such a carnage bankruptcy, why the small locally-living family farmers are always on the losing side. Thank you. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2016-05-23-358	Thank you very much. Mr Ander Balázs spoke on the title of the non-governmental party pub. Here you go.
u2016-05-23-359	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I agree with Viktor Orbán. The Prime Minister is right when he says, "The leaders in Brussels are sitting in an ivory tower, isolated from the world, unaware of reality, have no idea what they are talking about."But the governing party could start sweeping around the house of their Louis Vuitton and Gucci-ridiculous division, because the cute bunches there have no idea what is going on in the Hungarian countryside, that is quite certain. But where are we looking for this non-governmental party pubic area on the map? You don't have to wander to the third world's African or internal Asian poverty regions, you can stop at the world of the doomed, less than a thousand domestic villages. Where only 7 percent of the population lives, but where more than half of our local governments lie, and what the rural policy of the current government should look at with the thought of Sándor Csoóri, which says: . This country, this nation, has been kept for a thousand years by the village, the countryside. This is how we should relate to him, not in the spirit of communist-neoliberal continuity, medieval and therefore to village destruction as mature skanzen. In particular, this is true in a county with a geographical potential such as Somogy, where three quarters of the 246 settlements have fewer than one thousand people and one in four villages is condemned to die. Although we have received several times from our pro-government colleagues to acknowledge that we, the opposition representatives on the list, have no constituencies, but let us be allowed to walk the countryside, and at least in such a way we will try to convey the complaint of the small settlements of Hungary in despair to the ivory tower of the cocaine bars in Ibiza or the castle in Tura. Although it would perhaps be more useful if the lucky selecters of the MNB's foundations were to take study trips to the region of North-East Hungary or South-Transdanubia rather than to explore the challenges facing the library sector in East Africa. If government puppies did so, they might learn more about the roughness of the countryside and realize that we are about to be there, in one of the villages of the Negroes of Congo, a doctor will be brought to the village of the Congo by the Doctors Without Borders, as a regional doctor to the mixed practice of Lakocsa in South Somogy, which has been empty for eight years now. If the government cheerleaders were to make a round in the neighborhood, maybe they'd know that a lot of parents are right to ask why they have to save money at a school in Vízvár. How is it that, while the 1800 enthusiastic Felcsútra received HUF 10 billion of sports support, their original plans were to make a nice lock for only HUF 19 million during their school's wage and property cuts. If they used their fancy cars to come by, government pubs would not only be shaken by the bad roads from their tight little suits, but also by the angry locals. Those who do not understand that while there is money for the side road 6212 of Fejér County leading to the L. Simon winery and pension, in 2016, only 39 kilometers of the Somogy road network, which is 1,800 kilometres long and in very bad condition, can be renewed. On the roads that form part of the national network, only 4 billion are spotted by the county residents this year, within the framework of a project aimed at eliminating printing and surface unevenness and improving road safety, sustainability and accessibility in the region. Indeed, if you look at the map of the planned road renovations, you can look at the length of the sections that have been assigned to the repair, as if you were looking at just a few fleas. Of course, maybe it's just the rebellish nature of Koppa. The bloodthirsty commie, György Marosán, who was extremely read and more sophisticated, told the disgruntled people that the bun was not the little one, comrades, but the big one. And I certainly seem too greedy myself when I again express my dissatisfaction with the budget for next year. If the items affecting small settlements remain unchanged, then, unfortunately, the South Somogy notary will also be right sooner or later, who believes that if everything goes on like this, the only way to save this region from destruction is if the Virgin Mary appears and the countryside becomes a pilgrim's place. Thank you for your attention. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2016-05-23-360	After the agenda, Mr László György Lukács, Mr Jobbik, asked for a speech on the National Health Insurance Fund. Here you go.
u2016-05-23-361	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, It is not so long ago that the National Health Insurance Fund, i.e. under her maiden and shortened name, OEP, will cease to exist. This news was reported by John Lazarus. Looks like he's gonna be the one to escort the very important health insurance and cashier organization to the afterlife. János Lázár said that the otherwise well-functioning and very important body is divided into two parts, in effect one part of the task will be taken over by the Treasury, while the other one will be delegated into ministry powers and responsibilities. The tension surrounding the restructuring is well demonstrated by the fact that not only the OEP itself as the body concerned, but also by the way, several wallets and the State Secretary-General have expressed the need to remain autonomous, the reduction of bureaucracy cannot reach the OEP. [[23.00]] Of course, John Lázár swept them off the table and said that it was only at the pace of this transformation and thus the elimination that could be considered. But that he will make a mistake, and that the government will make a mistake, it is very clear that not only in the ministry, but also within the profession, there is serious tension around it, and the general opinion of the profession is that the Prime Minister's Office will make a huge mistake by conducting such a restructuring. It is safe to say that the Secretary of State, the Secretary of State for Health, is not a coincidence when it comes to restructuring, and they are likely to feel that it is not worth mentioning because Viktor is not likely to allow this body to remain. Otherwise, in this false way of cutting red tape, not only will it benefit from restructuring, neither the citizens, the workers nor the institutions will benefit from restructuring, but rather the supply system will suffer damage. The day-to-day task of the OEP, its financing task, will be seriously undermined by the inclusion of a large part of the tasks in the Ministry of State Treasury or, otherwise, in terms of political decisions. It is safe to say that the body will lose its independence, and otherwise it will cause serious disruptions in the benefits, and there will be room for political involvement and political involvement throughout the ministry. The policy has little to do with this financing task, and the policy has to do with determining the level of funding to which we will be financing, and it must not interfere with daily funding. For this reason, we see that the Ministry will now decide over those funds as political will over the HUF 2000 billion, above which the Health Insurance Fund, above which the Ministry will decide, and ultimately it will be completely pushed into the political sphere, even though it would be right to separate policy, so-called polycy, and in this case the political will, which is actually only related to the supreme so-called implementation of power. But it is unreasonable to cut red tape even in the case that OEP has performed a relatively large task with a small apparatus so far. In the international comparison, OEP managed the otherwise huge financing task of about 5 percent of the organization with a one-and-a-half-percent budget, i.e. one-and-a-half per cent of the health insurance and health insurance. It is easy to say that fewer people can no longer carry out this task. So it also confirms and underlines that it is not a reduction in bureaucracy, but political willbending, and it is about filling the organisation in a political sense, because it is not possible to carry out tasks with fewer people. So, one way or another, this task has to be done with the same population of people. It is completely unreasonable, therefore, to take this to the Ministry. It is also an interesting factor that, as with any government restructuring, all energy will be devoted to its own activities and to the changes involved in the restructuring, and not to the tasks that would actually be addressed around funding. It would therefore be a good attitude not to have this organisation dismantled or reorganised, but to strengthen and expand people and to preserve people with expertise and to make health funding even more effective. It would be the right move, and it would be the right attitude if political control were to take us back from this pace and not be surprised or overrun by the OEP. And why is OEP worth keeping in mind? Indeed, funding is one of the most important transparency points, and if we cannot create transparency in health care, then we will break the confidence of the whole system, the trust of people in health care, and that is why we are sending a message: hands away from the OEP! Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2016-05-23-362	Mr President Novák is the next speaker, representative of Jobbik:.Ludas Matyi's message to politicians. Here you go.
u2016-05-23-363	Dear Parliament, I mean, since there's not a single member of the government left, not a member of the government, a minister, I think it's more polite to turn against you. [[He's turning towards the Betterbik fraction.]] Dear fellow Members, The government has so far laid low, but in response to my last speech after the agenda, it has already openly refused to double the punishment for political criminals. In his personal reply, State Secretary Pál Völner referred to equality of law before the law to quote precisely the principles of equality before the law and equality, so I think that he should rather go back to the Faculty of Law of the Ministry of Justice and not send me for our radical proposal, which, however, remains within the limits of the rule of law, because by making it a qualified case of political crime, we would rightly like to impose twice the amount of penalties in force for crimes of an economic nature committed by politicians. We could say that it should be a classified case if a person, as a politician, commits a crime of an economic nature. For when one, let's say, Gábor Simon is exposed, it is only one of the pans of the balance sheet, the minor damage to the national economy that we see, say, in a bank account in Vienna, to hide a few hundred million forints, as it is likely that only half of the corruption that a politician pockets from a multinational company in exchange for these bribes has caused a much greater damage to the national economy. They carry out a regulatory environment, investments and infrastructure improvements, not only in relation to László L. Simon's interests, as we have heard in your speech after the agenda, Balázs, but also in my opinion that, unfortunately, at national level, they are able to make laws for multinational companies. If we have already mentioned the example of Gábor Simon, and if we have already talked about equality of law before the law, but let us put it more precisely, about equality before the law, Mr Pál Völner, then let us say that at the level of beautiful words in the Fundamental Law, of course, everyone is equal before the law, does not say so in Article V (1) of the Fundamental Law, but then it turns out that there are more equals who are entitled to the right of immunity, which we suggested in vain to abolish in the debate of the Fundamental Law. This was voted out in the same way as all our other fundamental law-modifying proposals by the Fidesz mamelukes. So it seems that everyone is not quite equal before the law, only Jobbik would like to abolish immunity, and only Jobbik will set a good example, where we have also been on the issue of job accumulation in politics, and I think that this can give us the strength to continue our struggles, so that we can eliminate the other forms of political crime, not only the legal form, the accumulation of jobs, but also the rest. Further steps would indeed be needed. And perhaps János Zuschlag pointed out that he was not followed by the bigger leaders of the MSZP, let alone in prison, but did not go into the spotlight at all, because the immunity law - not only protects him from condemnation, but also from the investigation. I mean, you can't even investigate a politician with immunity, a politician's criminal in style. Unfortunately, therefore, the discovery of crimes is also hindered by immunity. Well, that's why we'd like to be better people, though, you probably shouldn't be discussing this in detail, but I still feel it's my duty as a conscience to draw attention to this and a few more points from our anti-politician program package, only in the headlines. After all, we demand double punishment if we can't get there, either for immunity or for encryption. Yes, encryptions contrary to the public interest must be reviewed. In addition to this, we must stick to our programming point at the latest until we get to the government. Although we are confident that we may be able to succeed sooner, as we have been able to achieve serious results with pressure on the issue of job accumulation in politics, even if new and new loopholes are opened, for example, to the question of job accumulation in politics. Just think of the Secretary of State of the Ministry of Defence, who has four additional posts, i.e. five more jobs, all of which are full-time, and state-owned companies on the board of directors. We could also mention the family declarations that are kept in the Parliament's safe and more points from our political crime programme package, but let me say, in closing, that the government is protesting the Jobbik proposal for a double punishment for political criminals, but at least it took a stand. For me, this is already an almost unsatisfyingly moderate motion. I'd prefer Ludas Matyi's triple timesr, so let's just be happy for Mr. Dumpsters, oligarchs, orange and red barons, while we're just calling for double punishment for politicians and decent people for a better future. Thank you for your attention. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2016-05-23-364	Honourable Congressman, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that, while the sentence laid down in the first sentence of your speech is a fact, it is not appropriate for the President and the President to turn their backs on it. And now, Mrs Loránt Hegedűs is next, a representative of Jobbik. Here you go. [[23.10]]
u2016-05-23-365	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, The public servant is not a mercenary, and therefore the municipal workers are preparing to strike, who are planning to stop their two-hour work on 22 June, and want to make a 30-percent increase in earnings with their union, because it means the death of the countryside, that the employees of the municipal mayor's offices have not increased their wages for years. The current wage increases promise, as we know, only apply to government officials and government officials, and that is why local government workers demand an increase in the salary base and a change in the multipliers, so that they can achieve an overall increase of about 30%. Of the 37,000 municipal civil servants, 26 thousand have not been paid at all for eight years, and, as we can see from the draft budget for next year, the government still does not want to settle their situation. The salary base remains unchanged at HUF 38 650. János Lázár's red tape reduction measures at the beginning of the year raised a great deal of dust, but his idea was to release hundreds of thousands of public servants and civil servants from the public sector. He thinks it's a way to solve the good state that he's made the government's main programming element. In our view, a good state would basically need non-motivated, not burned-out, not underfunded officials to do their job in the offices. That is why we in the 2017 Budget Bill are proposing to increase the basic salary of civil servants by around 20%, and in this context we are also initiating the correction of pay tables. I would just like to highlight one little moment in this regard. If the estimated engineer of the Stadium in Szombathely, we know that this is HUF 9.6 billion, and the price that the contractor is willing to pay is between 15.2 billion and 5.6 billion, then every civil servant in Hungary could receive a salary increase of HUF 10 000 per month. So what we are talking about is not hopeless, but there would still be plenty of resources in the next budget for a comprehensive wage arrangement that everyone could benefit from. But on the other hand, Fidesz doesn't do anything. We know that the basic salary for civil servants could not have increased since 2008 after Gyurcsány agreed with the IMF and the European Union. Minister of State Péter Banai has said on several occasions that there is no increase in basic salary, so wages are not increasing, but this should also be welcomed, since the IMF demanded that the current government reduce these wages. But we respectfully report that, unfortunately, the Secretary of State is wrong, because since 2008, these wages have lost some 30 percent of their value. You have to imagine that the average salary in this sphere is 120 thousand forints, which is about 90 thousand net. But a civil servant with a secondary education has to work 33 years to get more than the guaranteed minimum wage, so compared to the threshold of starvation, he could get a little more. In June 2014, they were promised a career model, which was then promised on 23 December 2015 - what a Christmas present! - were withdrawn, and the government, we know, doesn't even promise a comprehensive settlement before 2018. On the other hand, once again, we, the representatives of Jobbik, have proposed it in the next year's budget draft law, as we have done every year since we are members of Parliament, in order to finally correct basic salary and payroll. Thank you so much for listening. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2016-05-23-366	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, Congressman Gergely Farkas, representative of Jobbik, has applied for a post-meeting speech: let the opinion of the students also be expressed in the Parliament. - Report to Jobbik's Youth Department. - Hear your voice. The results of your campaign. Episode 14. Here.
u2016-05-23-367	Thank you very much for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Allow me to present to you, for the 14th time, the personal experiences, insights and suggestions of high school students and young people, which all contribute to the necessary and timely reform of education. For example, Matthew, a 17-year-old, 11-year-old student in the IT school, formulated the following for the National Assembly, and I quote: "I wish to make my point to the Members of Parliament within the framework of the Jobbik Youth Study programme. I've had some pretty bad experiences with the new master plan. Especially in the field of informatics, since we have little IT lessons, even though in the future more and more knowledge is needed in this area of jobs and life, because it can be very useful because of the rapid flow of information. The equipment is scandalous, the machines are weak, the number of hours is not enough. *Máté closed his lines with some irony:. The best thing I liked was that the master plan was under development, and our class has been in it for nearly three years, while the question arises whether they are playing games in a semi-finished stadium.-The questions made by Máté strengthens and complements the real problems of Tibor's letter, who continues this issue, and I quote: "In the field of education, but not only here, it would be important to be stable, predictable, and a long-term strategy, as well as organic development in this context. This is necessary for us to plan our future with courage and for us to have a vision that is worth staying home for. Unfortunately, stability and predictability can only be observed in two areas: health care is in ruins and corruption is everywhere. '"' said Tibor. In agreement with Tibor's opinion, Jobbik also believes that predictability and transparency are essential in education, creating this is essential, because this is one of the prerequisites for effective functioning. It is precisely this predictable vision that would keep our young people at home instead of emigration, and instead of that, unfortunately, the growing generation is most insecure today. In Barbara's letter, he draws attention to what Jobbik has already said here in Parliament on several occasions, that it would be necessary to examine the psychological fitness of teachers before the university, whether such careers really take place by teachers who have the right attitude and qualities for this career. Barbara writes: "Unfortunately, there are teachers who are not interested in young people. I think that first of all, we should look into who they want to be teachers, and if they have the knowledge and the skills to do that. Unfortunately, there are such teachers, fortunately there are examples of the opposite, there are a lot of dedicated, professional teachers, and this has been highlighted several times, when we discussed that in the current education system, in this chaos, it is only the persistence of dedicated teachers that sustains this current system, so thank them. And Anett's opinion relates to the much-explained overload, and he suggests, quote, that since we are too busy, I think we should only keep 5-6 hours a day for 7-8 hours a day. In such a situation, students would be better able to concentrate and therefore perform. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. The quantity can be debated, but the fact is that the current overload should be reduced, the burden of the students should be reduced, because, as we have repeatedly said, less sometimes more, if there were less hours, the students could be more fresh, more prepared at home, or even recharged with programs that would be necessary for them. Zoltán expressed a legitimate question when he wrote this to us, and I quote: "I asked, who intended the name of Kunó Klebelsberg to name the institution-supporting centre, how well they must have been aware of why the original owner of the name worked. I would like to offer the political leaders a quote from Kunó Klebelsberg, not politics, but the idea of a new generation of public health, cultural, scientific and literary, economic and social policy. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. [[23.20]] Kunó Klebelsberg saw that our country can only succeed if we invest our energy in increasing our knowledge. His way of thinking and actions have also resulted, as so many Nobel Prize-winning scientists of Hungarian origin, inventors were brought up in the Hungarian school benches. I ask myself, a simple student, the obstacle of schools, teachers and students in acquiring and transferring knowledge how Klebelsberg follows Kuno's spirit. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I think it is a worthy end to today's speech that a young student already refers to Klebelsberg Kuno, which is certainly joyful. That's all you could afford for today's speech. I am also encouraging everyone to take this opportunity to express their views, either through our activists, who are looking for young people across the country with leaflets, or through the Jobbikit.hu/hallasdahangod website. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2016-05-23-368	Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speeches after the agenda. Thank you for your work. Parliament will resume its session at 9 a.m. Meeting day's closed. Good night, everyone. [[Meeting ended at 11:21 p.m.]]
