u2016-10-17-0	[[The people in this room stand up and greet the voters' community. When the chairman of the meeting takes his seat, the people in the room will sit down.]] Dear Parliament, The 12th day of the autumn session of the Parliament is hereby opened. I would like to inform you that László Földi and István Szávay, notaries, will be in charge of the meeting. Welcome to our guests and to all those who monitor our work. Dear Parliament, Before the agenda, Mr Bernadett Szél, Member of the LMP Group, spoke with the title of the government of tax increases. I give you the floor, Congresswoman.
u2016-10-17-1	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Parliament, We can get used to believing exactly the opposite of what the Hungarian government says. It is written on the posters that Hungarian reforms work, while we see that Hungarian health care has practically collapsed. They claim that they have eliminated systemic corruption, and what we're seeing is that they're stealing the country. They claim that they would be a government for tax reductions, while everyone knows precisely that Fidesz-KDNP is practically the government for tax increases for the majority of the population. Chips tax, transaction tax, utility tax, telecommunications tax, insurance tax, accident tax, energy tax, bank tax, 98 percent special tax on severance payments - all products of Fidesz-KDNP. You're taxing everything that's taxable. But what really hurts the Hungarian people, which really hurts the governance of Fidesz-KDNP, is that you have introduced a tax system that is a very significant withdrawal for the majority of Hungarians. There is one feature of this tax system that is to take from those to whom it should be given. What we see is that the now 15 percent szya, along with everything, is a 33.5 percent withdrawal for the smallest wages. With the government's so-called tax reform, 2.5 million taxpayers - 60 percent of taxpayers - suffer ill, these people pay more taxes on an annual average of 75,000 forints. The one-key tax that you have introduced, and what, as we hear, some people do not like on the opposition side, has taken 134 billion forints a year from those in the lower seven-tenths. You took 134 billion forints from these people and gave 500 billion to the best 10 percent. What's the problem? Well, it's called perverse redistribution in economics for a reason, because this means that Hungary currently has a government that takes money from those most in need and gives it to those who are supposed to be able to do better on their own merits than the poorest. So you are doing exactly what common sense would dictate, and which would be good for the majority of Hungarian people. Let me say, however, that this is a special speech from the point of view that I know exactly what the representative of the government will say. Now, as I stand here, I know exactly what you're going to say. Therefore, I would like to warn all my fellow Members in advance, and if there is a mediation from this Parliament, we would also like to warn the viewers, the taxpayers, that a member of the government is expected to lie to your eyes soon. He will lie that he would tax the Hungarian people more than Fidesz if he went to the LMP government. So that's the lie. State Secretary Csaba Dömötör, who is still here, lied to us last week when we asked his boss about his helicoptering habits, you claimed that we would tax more than Fidesz-KDNP. Well, then I would like to make it clear that, unlike your lies, the LMP government would introduce a tax system that would be good for the vast majority of Hungarians, and would be better off with us than with Fidesz-KDNP. Well, obviously, it's too much for a Fidesz Secretary of State to understand the nature of progressive taxation, so I'd like to shed some light. The May Other is thinking of a progressive, i.e. multi-key tax system. [[Bence Rétvári: Thinking about raising taxes.]] After 111,000 forints, after the first 111,000 forints, people would pay zero percent sja. How much are you paying today, Mr. Secretary? 15 percent. After the next 139 thousand forints, only 12 percent would be taxed at LMP and 15 percent would be taxed at Fidesz. And this would be accompanied by a 6.5 percent total employee contribution reduction from the LMP, which would mean that anyone on minimum wage would earn more than 24 thousand forints, who is on average, and that would be 37 thousand forints more. So the person who is now earning an average wage of HUF 250,000 gross would be able to bring home 203,000 forints instead of today's HUF 166 thousand. So, contrary to the statement made last week by the Secretary of State of Dömötör, it would not only be reduced by 20,000, but it would increase the wages of the people who are on average. That's the 57,000 forints, that's the Fidesz lie. That's your lie last week, that's what happened, so I want everyone to hear that whoever chooses LMP will be better off taking more money home. And by the way, who earns double average wages, 500 thousand forints, would still make 31,000 forints more. We sure as hell wouldn't steal, we'd put corruption on zero, and those who deserve to go to jail would go to jail. I'm sure we wouldn't be helicoptering, building stadiums, not urinating, and not lying to a civil government, and dictating the pace of Ibiza to our own fellow government. There's no such thing. With the LMP, the wage crisis would end, who left Hungary, could come home, and families would not be forced to break up. What did they say? Here's your choice.
u2016-10-17-2	Thank you, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, On behalf of the Government, Mr András Tállai, State Secretary, responds to what has been said. Secretary of State, you have the floor.
u2016-10-17-3	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear Deputy Chief of Staff, Lady, [[Dr. Wind Bernadett: Pass! I can't believe...]] I suggest we talk about the LMP lies first, okay? The title of his speech is. The Government of Tax Increases. That's a lie in itself. If you meant the Fidesz-KDNP government, then you weren't telling the truth. This government is not about tax increases. [[Dr. Pál Völner: That's right!]] the government, but the government has just been able to reduce the tax burden. When we came to government, the total tax burden was higher than 41 percent of GDP in 2010. Now, if we look at it - it's true, it's two years ago, so it's probably even more favourable than what I'm saying - 39 percent. And this is international data, so the OECD has accepted and acknowledged this. So the main figure in itself is when the tax burden is compared to GDP. [[Dr. Wind Bernadett: What about people?]] , then overall tax burden reduction comes out. Now, how does this reduction in tax burden come out? The Fidesz government said that income tax needs to be reduced. Income, i.e. corporate tax on businesses and personal income tax on private individuals. This happened. I'll tell you how. For example, by introducing a single-key personal income tax system. Before the Fidesz government, there was 40 percent, 38 percent, 36 percent, and even 40.64 percent of personal income tax, including super-grossing. Whatever you say, however you say, it's a one-key, 15 percent. But what's much more important is that socialist governments have abolished family tax relief. [[Lajos Korózs: Very well!]] This affected nearly one million families in Hungary. We reintroduced this, which meant 460 billion for the families in 2011, 475 billion in 2012, 540 billion in 2013, nearly 600 billion in 2014, and 660 billion in 2015. Overall, the family tax reduction and the reduction of the personal income tax rate in six years, whether you believe it or not, meant a reduction in income tax of HUF 3600 billion, which meant that this was the amount of money left in the family pocket. [[Dr. Wind Bernadett: Where? The Butcher family?]] Contrary to your claim. And if we add to this the impact of the reduction of the rent in the non-direct tax measure, the halting or settlement of foreign currency lending, then it is clear that from 2010 onwards, as the Hungarian economy has been doing better, they have been getting better and have increased opportunities and income for their families. [[9.10]] This is also confirmed by consumption data, as consumption has been increasing steadily for three years in Hungary. We have also achieved significant results in the area of corporate tax, since the tax rate of companies with a corporate tax base of HUF 500 million has decreased from 19% to 10 percent. This left significant resources in the business, which could be spent on development and investment. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and I would like to tell you that the government has also made significant reductions in the area of turnover tax. [[Dr. Wind Bernadett: Very clever.]] The VAT of the medical aid, live and half-swine will be reduced; the VAT of the pork, new residential properties, the VAT of the Internet will be reduced; the key to the VAT of basic foods, poultry meat, eggs and fresh milk, which will leave hundreds of billions of HUF in the pockets of families. In total, the government is able to produce significant results both in terms of income tax and in terms of the overall turnover tax burden. Unlike you - and I would like to turn to your second lie when you claim that you would not increase the human income tax rate, since you said that you would introduce a progressive tax rate. This will obviously mean an additional tax burden for hundreds of thousands of people in Hungary. [[Interventions on the pro-government side: That's right!]] However, in your speech, when you spoke about LMP's tax policy, you did not mention one thing: what about the family tax reduction? [[Dr. Wind Bernadett: There will be more.]] Would you guys like to keep the family tax relief or cancel it? I suspect that the reason you didn't speak in your speech is because, in addition to increasing your personal income tax rates, LMP also cancels the family tax reduction. [[Dr. Wind Bernadett: Lies! The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] Thank you very much, we don't want any of this. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-10-17-4	I thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Mr Lajos Korózs, MSZP Group, also spoke before the agenda, with the title of Social Processes. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2016-10-17-5	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Dear fellow Members, Today is the International Day for Combating Poverty. We see that for 70 years the Hungarian society has not lived in such deprivation and desperation as it did in the autumn of 2016. We see that the situation is worse in scale than in the years after the crisis. Let's see how the government's reign has fought poverty in six years. First of all, hundreds of billions of forints were withdrawn from the social security system. As a result of their blessed activities, there has been an increase in the number of people living below the minimum level of living, an increase in the number of people living in poverty and social exclusion, an increase in the number of people living below the minimum pension, an increase in the number of people living in poverty, and an increase in the number of people living in housing poverty. I would like to note here that the Socialist Group will once again present its proposal for a reduction in food VAT. And from here I would also like to welcome the editors of Népszabadság, who joined in this week's week's edition of the week's week's week without the Cover, because this is the newspaper that helps the homeless. Let us also look at the measures taken by the government in the last six years. The greatest villainy that could be committed against a democracy was the abolition of the constitution. The Fundamental Law, which is only a fabrication, please, has even deleted the word "social security" from the Hungarian legal order. There is no official social security in Hungary today. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: Only rising pensions.]] Today, Hungary is a country among the Member States of the European Union where there is no protection, constitutional protection of social rights. I think it's a XXI. This is unacceptable in European democracy of the century. The government's further steps were to tax the minimum wage, reduce the public wage, take away 20% of the subsidy to replace employment, abolish housing aid on 1 March 2015, abolish the debt management service, abolish the regular social assistance, abolish the municipal aid, abolish the public health care system, abolish the equity care fee, and remove the kindergarten allowance from September. They didn't spare the pensioners either, Honourable House. Today there are over 900,000 pensioners living under the minimum wage. The worst situation is the disabled. Not only have they been humiliated, but they have taken away or reduced supplies from hundreds of thousands of people. They couldn't even finish the inspection, they failed because they couldn't find any frauds. In fact, in recent years, we have twice proposed an increase in the old-age pension minimum. The Fidesz majority voted against both times, referring to the fact that it affects so few people that it is not worth dealing with. Dear fellow Members, I would like to tell you that we wanted to raise the pension limit to 50,000 forints. I would like to stress that there is no way to make a living from this, only until then were the subsidies that you abolished and abolished in March of last year. Both have been erased by reference to the fact that it is not worth dealing with. There are 73,000 people in Hungary today, whose retirement pension is less than 50,000 forints. And then let's continue to see what they've done in retirement. Pre-age benefits have been abolished. There are no early retirements in Hungary, early retirements, reduced early retirements, early retirements without reduction, miners' pensions have been abolished, and artistic pensions have been abolished. In another section, the service pension was abolished and the invalidity and accident disability pension to the shame of Europe was abolished. In return, however, young people who have to take care of their elderly parents and pay twice for the services that would otherwise be payable to older people, since these people, who need care and care of the state, have paid social security contributions for decades. I can see there's money for stadiums, but there's no social security. There's money to move to the Castle, but there's no way to reduce waiting lists. There's Paks II, but there's no funding for the school. There's Rogán to Antal's Ministry, but there's no medicine for cancer patients; there's the Lakitelek Foundation, but there's no help for foreign exchange credentials; there's the invisible public media, but there's no for starving children; there's Lőrinc Mészáros hotel, but there's no for the elderly. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] No fairy tales, you must fail! Thank you very much.
u2016-10-17-6	Thank you. Dear Parliament, On behalf of the Government, Secretary of State Bence Rétvári responds to what has been said. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2016-10-17-7	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Honourable Congressman, Dear House, It could also be answered in a sentence and in five minutes and, of course, in several hours. [[Lajos Korózs: Are you resigning? Interviews in the benches of MSZP.]] When you think about what the best social policy in a country is, what it is that can best help people who are deprived, who do not have enough income, you can say that giving an unemployed person a job is. There's no better social policy than this. [[Intercoms in the benches of the MSZP.]] If we look at what the socialist government has done about this, we can see that 250,000 people have fallen. [[Moraj in the benches of opposition parties. The president's ringing the bell.]] the possibility of working. And if we look at what happened during the Fidesz-KDNP period, we see that there are 600,000 more people working today. [[Zoltán Grimlock: In London!]] 600,000 more people have the opportunity to provide their family with wages and salaries, guaranteeing a safe living for themselves and their families in the long run. 600,000 more people have the opportunity to do this than they did in 2010, and you have already taken that opportunity away from 250,000 people. [[Zoltán Grumpy and Ágnes Kunhalmi intervene several times. The president's ringing the bell.]] And besides, I believe that what you have listed here, honourable Member, what you have done in connection with the foreign exchange loan, putting hundreds of thousands of families on the edge of the bank, the Fidesz-KDNP government has also had to put in place, solve, and save these people from the horror of eviction. [[9.20]] That you speak of pensions and pensions as socialist representatives, while you stand up here in Parliament individually in a roll-call vote, and all of you loudly and clearly said a big yes to take away a month's pension from pensioners, to reduce the value of pensions by 8.3 percent, and then you stand up and say that there are few increases in pensioners, because there were only 8.6 percent - while you took 8.3, we gave 8.6 plus you minus - and you stand up and say that the situation of pensioners is more difficult, while your expenses have been reduced by tens of thousands of HUF, and that you can spend more on the rest of your livelihood, well, you will then speak up on social support. Honourable Congressman, The funds you have listed, you know very well, have been absorbed in municipal subsidies, to which the government will give 30 billion HUF more than the last socialist government has offered. And if you look at the unemployment figures that we can treat as facts in the past, I can see that you are very at odds with the facts: the unemployment rate has dropped below 5%. Then, in a year, the number of employees increased by 148 thousand, the gross average salary now stands at 257 900 HUF. These are all steps that give people at risk of poverty, both in difficulty and in difficulty, the opportunity to make a decent way of life without material deprivation. With regard to health, honourable Member, do you speak of a health crisis when you have offered one thing in the field of health in response to the problems that arise there, the visit fee, which would have kept precisely the poorest people away from both the general practitioner and the hospital daily allowance, so that they would not heal themselves? It was you who reduced the amount of the Health Insurance Fund from 1700 billion to 1500 billion. We have raised this from 1,500 billion to over 2,000 billion. And now you're telling me that hospitals are in difficulty? ! They're exactly 500 billion less difficult than they were at the time of your government. Only then why did you reduce this? Why did you defend even in 2008 when the Socialist Government reduced the amount of both the raised and the basic social normative by HUF 30 and HUF 100 thousand? Then he didn't stand up in Parliament, so he didn't speak. When we gave sectoral wage allowances and sectoral wage supplements to social workers, making an average of at least HUF 16,000 more than they earned three years ago, you do not support or accept these bill proposals. Just as they didn't support any of our laws that have increased the wages of teachers by 50 percent over several years. They did not support the increase of the doctor's wages by HUF 107 thousand from 1 September this year, and by another HUF 100 thousand from 1 November next year. You didn't get away with it. You took away a month's wages from these people. But they also did not support the increase in the wages of nurses this year, next year, after and after, and double between 2012 and 2019. What else could be done to ensure the sustainability and good functioning of the health system than to make these pay increases exactly? You have not stepped up, but have voted against the increase of half a million people in the human sphere in the last few years. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-10-17-8	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. My fellow Members, I would like to say that we are not having a dialogue in Parliament right now, but that we are listening to each other. Dear Parliament, Speaking in advance of the agenda, Congresswoman Rózsa Hoffmann, KDNP Group has started to address the heating season. You have the floor, Congresswoman. [[Socialist representatives leave the Chamber.]]
u2016-10-17-9	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, With the lines of Sándor Petőfi, I would like to briefly refer to the subject of my speech:, Here's the autumn, here's the new one. / And beautiful as ever, to me. / God knows why / I love him? But I love him. Yes, we like to enjoy the bright colors of autumn, the mist in the fields in the morning, and we like to listen to the soft sound of the falling leaves of trees. However, we do not like to get ready for the winter zimanko, and so we heat our apartments well and light the lights against the expanding darkness, which, as we know, costs a lot of money. Several years ago, the returning sad news of the coming of the cold days was that poor people froze here and there in their own homes, because of their small incomes, they could not afford to buy firemen to pay the money needed to prejure warm and light. And those who managed to manage it somehow had to tighten their belts to it. It's been like that for years. By 2010, due to the high and constantly increasing expenditure on wages, the financial scope of Hungarian families was simply so limited that it made their livelihood almost impossible, deepened poverty, increased inflation, reduced the value of wages and pensions, and hindered consumption, thus also the economy. In 2010, we were saying that the most expensive gas was for Hungarian families in the European Union and the second most expensive electricity price in the European Union. They spent a quarter of their income, half their poverty, on rent. The heating season started on 15 October. Warm radiators and heated stoves have never been given for free, so the household costs increase. After the change in government in 2010, one of our first decisions was to freeze overhead costs, and then in 2013-14 we made a radical reduction in overhead costs. In the first step, the prices of natural gas, electricity and district heating decreased by 10 percent from January 2013. In the second step, a further 11.1 percent reduction was achieved from November 2013. In the third step in 2014, the price of gas was further 6.5 percent, the price of electricity was further 5.7 percent, and the price of district heat was further 3.3 percent lower. This was accompanied by reduced firewood operations, also significantly reducing the burden on families. With an average reduction of 25 per cent, families can save 110 to 200 thousand forints per year depending on the size and heating of the property. Between 2013 and 16, the savings amount is already HUF 821 billion, of which this year's savings amount to HUF 179 billion. We must not forget that during their governance, the socialists tripled the price of gas and doubled the price of electricity, even though they promised the opposite, and said slowly that everyone would understand. And then, of course, it didn't. While the families have suffered constant austerity, the foreign utility companies have made a profit of HUF 1040 billion. The then governor left not only to let it happen, but also to help it. Also at EU level, the reduction in the demand after 2010 has brought radical change and improvement. Today, according to August 2016, in the European Union, electricity is the fifth cheapest and the second cheapest price of natural gas in Hungary. Over the past four years, backlogs over 30 days have decreased significantly by 40-50 percent for various services. Disengaged retail consumers are down by 30 percent. The objective remains to preserve the results of the reduction of the rent so far, and the government is examining whether there is room for further reductions in household energy prices. Today, the reduction of the rent will still protect families, and this will continue to be the case for a long time. I wish everyone a winter and a beautiful autumn without dampness and frostbite. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-10-17-10	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. On behalf of the Government, Mr András Aradszki wishes to respond to what has been said. Secretary of State, you have the floor.
u2016-10-17-11	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and It has very nicely summarized the activities of the last six years in terms of the reduction of the rent. When the Hungarian government was founded in 2010, it observed and correctly appreciated that the prices of electricity and gas in Hungary are one of the highest prices in Europe. [[9.30]] As you have mentioned, the socially sensitive socialist government - I am trying to turn my back on whether they are here, but they are not here - has established a price structure that, before 2010, in nominal terms, the poor English citizen, the poor Dutch citizen, the even poorer Czech and Cypriot citizen paid less for gas and electricity, electricity, than the Hungarian citizen seeking for electricity in the prosperous Hungarian economy. This was the time, as Parliamentary Secretary of State Rétvári mentioned before me, when part of the pensions were taken away when money was withdrawn from health care when they tried to shift the burden of health to citizens instead of reducing the costs. So this was the time when the socially sensitive socialists who didn't do their parliamentary work governed the country in this way. So the Hungarian government, the civil government that was established in 2010, was right at that time to use a freeze as the beginning of the reduction in the rent, i.e. freeze prices, not allow them to increase more than inflation. Then, from 2013 onwards, to this day, it gradually affected a 25 per cent reduction in electricity and gas. I think it is very important to mention that this reduction is sustainable. Although, when we introduced this in 2013, many of the benches behind me, quote, shouted, they said that they argued that this reduction was not sustainable. We are now talking about the fact that the energy supply system is indeed sustainable, secure and that citizens' lives have become noticeably easier. Another positive impact of this reduction was on the economy as a whole, helping to keep inflation low, ensuring stability for residents, citizens, able to plan and contributing to the growth of real earnings with low inflation. We must say that today, the accumulated debts have also fallen significantly. According to data from the Energy and Utility Service Office, from 2012 to 2016, the backlogs for electricity beyond 30 days decreased from HUF 29.1 billion to HUF 16.7 billion, with a reduction from HUF 44.7 billion to HUF 23.4 billion for natural gas. In this context, there is also a decrease in the number of off-line consumers. While a total of 139 thousand retail customers were turned off in 2012, this figure decreased to 101,000 in 2016. It's not always that someone couldn't pay the due fees, it's also that his life condition has changed and that he may be using other services in the field of heating. On this basis, I can say that we intend to continue to reduce the costs. It is also a prerequisite for this that the universal service market, as opposed to the profits of over a thousand billion dollars mentioned by the Member, is now operating on a non-profit basis in such a way as to ensure security of supply and ensure that it is an accessible and secure source of energy. I think this direction is good. If all of our calculations that can be assessed from the data before us, and this is possible, we want to continue with the reduction of the costs. But, of course, the first priority is to ensure sustainability and the pursuit of sound stability. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-10-17-12	Thank you very much, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Member György Szilágyi, Jobbik Group also spoke before the agenda with the title Quaestor, offshore, declarations of assets, hidden Fidesz affairs. I give you the floor, Congressman.
u2016-10-17-13	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, The Jobbik Movement for Hungary has been struggling for years to create a clearer, more transparent public life. Yes, he is struggling, especially with you, because you are blocking by every means a clearer and more transparent public life in Hungary. This was also the case in the case of the Quaestor case, when the representatives of the Jobbik Hungary Movement immediately declared that they and their family members had no investment in the Quaestor, and they did not withdraw any money before the case exploded. We asked you to comment on this, and you didn't. That's how it was with offshore companies when the offshore scandal started. The Jobbik representatives have declared that neither they nor their family members have offshore companies, and we have asked you to comment on this. They didn't, because they probably had something to hide here. This was the case in the case of property declarations, when the representatives of the Jobbik Hungary Movement published the property declarations of family members living with them two years ago. We've asked you to make your family's property statements public, which you haven't done in over two years, so you haven't done that either. The question has been raised as to why you do not support these initiatives, and it was clear that you have something to hide in these matters, in the Quaestor case, in the offshore case and in the declaration of assets. In the previous week, a payment list of the last day before the Quaestor scandal exploded was published on the national television website. Forint 6.5 billion was taken out on the last day. It was 6.5 billion forints, which was probably very well felt by someone or had inside information, and was taken out of the Quaestor. What was among these names? We can clearly find the company of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the Hungarian National Trading House Ltd., which took out nearly HUF 4 billion. Then we find a lady who was the spokesperson for Quaestor at the time, and her husband took 15 million forints off the last day. This lady, by the way, was your Fidesz advisor before him, and you can call it a relationship close to you. Then we find a driver who worked at the High Prosecutor's Office and took out 200 million forints on the last day. This driver saved 200 million forints. I suppose there are a lot of drivers in Hungary today, who have savings of HUF 200 million. Or it could be that it wasn't his money, that he only treated someone's money as a strom, and that's why he was able to take it out. This, again, is the last day before the scandal. We're curious to see if there's any more of these lists out there, and let's just say we could find out the list of payments for the last two weeks before the scandal. I wonder how many Fidesz prominents, fidesz relatives, friends, Fidesz-related names we could find if we could find the list of the last two weeks? So that's how you guys acted in the Quaestor case. How did they handle the offshore cases? They said they didn't have to sign any statements here, because you weren't involved at all. Then the names came out in a row: Zsolt Horváth, János Kerényi, Imre Pogácsás, István Mikola. There were some pretty serious names in the offshore scandals. It was clear that you had something to hide here too, so you refused to sign that you didn't own an offshore company. How many other Fidesz guys can hide keeping their assets in offshore companies? ! How many other Fidesz politicians or prominents have created offshore companies just to damage the Hungarian state? - when it's your job to increase government revenue. And then there's the question of property statements. To our great surprise, János Lázár said on the government briefing the previous week that, to his knowledge, there have been two people in the last 20 years who have published his spouse's declaration of property, he and Viktor Orbán. So I'm going to tell him once again that two years ago, we made a declaration of wealth to family members living in our homes, and we did it last year, and in both cases we called on you to do the same. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: Did Béla Kovács make it public?]] You will now go to the Jobbik.hu website, and you will find the property declaration of each of our Members' spouses and children there. We asked you to do the same. We have nothing to hide. If you have nothing to hide, then do it. They haven't done it to this day, because you probably have something to hide. So don't bullshit, don't try to get back at me with non-existent cases created by you, like Béla Kovács or János Volner on several occasions, but finally take action! Once again, we call upon you to comment on the Quaestor case, to comment on offshore companies, and to make public with you the property declaration of a household. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik. Interjection in the same place: That's right!]]
u2016-10-17-14	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, On behalf of the Government, Mr Csaba Dömötör wishes to respond. [[9.40]]
u2016-10-17-15	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. The Member has mentioned a number of questions, so allow me to respond more. As regards the compensation of the Quaestor victims, this is done on the road designated by the Constitutional Court. 32,000 victims receive some HUF 124 billion in compensation in these weeks and months, as opposed to Baumag and Hajdú Bet cases, where the victims were abandoned. One thing is certain, the civilian government has closed decades of financial corruption and cleared the brokerage market. As far as the offshore issue is concerned, the civilian government was the first to make it mandatory that public procurement firms should be transparent. It is now public for everyone to know who is running for public procurement and who is getting mandates. By the way, the Panda company close to Jobbik couldn't get an assignment in that sense. There's still a lot to do, but you can't say that the government has done nothing to fight offshore. As far as the issue of declarations of assets and transparency is concerned, I understand that Jobbik has a proposal for declarations of assets. I find it very interesting that this proposal does not extend to members of the family, and it would not apply to relatives that you have stuffed out of the group funds with contracts. [[Dóra Dúró: Interview from Jobbik's benches: Why lie?]] For example, I would like to remind you that you know very well that the father of one of the party leaders has written studies on cemeteries; [[Ádám Mirkóczki: Where is it in the Btk. that it is forbidden?]] the brother of another one gave advice on agricultural matters; the third one received money from the party foundation from his grandmother's company. I'm not even talking about how the party president's kinship is related to Jobbik and Jobbik's jobs. And then you'll be talking about hidden assets and transparency. In fact, his speech is another proof that Jobbik's popular party is in fact nothing but a well-grown desire to include the former national party in the left-wing alliance. [[Dóra Dúró: Adam Mirkóczki: Did you write this?]] Be a man on his feet who can distinguish Jobbik from a select left party. [[Dóra Dúró: Ban the Communists from public life! Noise, interruptions.]] It's not without a history. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] Before the referendum, like the left, Jobbik did nothing to encourage the Hungarians to vote. They didn't have a campaign manager. Instead, they went to tabloids. [[Dr. István Apáti: Speak nicely! Maybe we'll like you.]] However, a referendum is an issue that can determine the fate of Hungary for decades. Allow me to briefly refer to Jobbik's brand-new consultation. I am doing this because in this consultation you are also concerned with matters that you have just referred to me. It is a good thing that your party finally realized that it is worth keeping in touch with the electorate, that it is worth considering their views. It wasn't always like that. Earlier, our fellow Member, Mr President, wanted to set up a committee of inquiry because the government had launched a consultation. [[Dóra Dúró: The Data Protection Commissioner has condemned you!]] But if we watch the current better consultation, if we watch this consultation, we feel like we're reading all of MSZP or some kind of tobias József-Molnár Gyula weed book. [[Gábor Vona's intervention.]] I don't know why they're blaring about things they've already done half a dozen left-wing parties. Their consultation, however, is extremely confusing not only in its content but also in its background. Typically, while Jobbik announced this consultation, the consultation sheets are already being collected by a completely unknown Ózdish association, which has never been heard by a living person. [[Dóra Dúró: It's not true! Interview from the benches of the governing parties: Oops!]] Thus, it is not known who the consultation data will eventually land with. Don't mislead the electorate. I suggest that this issue be clarified, even today. [[Dóra Dúró: I'll do it in two hours.]] If, by the way, you really consider the protection of public funds important, then the consultation will also discuss why, among other things, Csanád Szegedi is being investigated for suspicion of fiscal fraud. I know that he is no longer a Member, but it is worth clarifying this matter because many Jobbik-close employees and many better politicians may be involved in this fraud case, so it is worth clarifying. [[Adam Mirkóczki: A sentence from the head!]] If this is not clarified, or if the espionage scandal is not cleared, or if there is no answer to the accusations of VAT fraud, then Jobbik will prove to many times that he can do anything for money and power. [[Adam Mirkóczki: It's good that you don't!]] In this sense, it is very understandable why the former national party was brought into the same fold with the left. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from the benches of the governing parties. Adam Mirkóczki: 30 seconds left!]]
u2016-10-17-16	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Mr Lajos Kósa, Head of the Group, Fidesz Group, asked for a pre-meeting address on the situation after the referendum. You have the floor, Mr. Group Leader.
u2016-10-17-17	Mr. President. Dear House, On 2 October, the Hungarian electorate sent a clear message to Brussels: Hungary does not request a compulsory resettlement quota, and Hungary rejects Brussels' migration policy. It is also quite clear that this new alliance, this new community, which stood for Hungarian freedom, has not only put a ,, no, in the right place, but has also given Parliament full authority to start today the debate on the fundamental law amendment in which the majority of Parliament excludes the compulsory resettlement quota. We have all the political, legal powers to do so, and the greater part of Parliament is involved in this debate. The left-wing opposition does not participate, and they have already left the room, although, by the way, it is not yet on the agenda, but before the agenda, so they went home a little sooner than they should. They did this to Daca because their President, Gyula Molnár, said several times during the election campaign that the referendum was unnecessary, because in Parliament, even the socialists voted against a quota bill. There are two cases. A quiet internal coup is taking place against Gyula Molnár, and he has already weakened so much that the faction, of which he is not a member, bravely contradicts him and does not take part either in the vote or in the trial, as Bertalan Tóth said. Another option is that coordination has not yet been organised to ensure that the party president's press statements are properly interpreted. But I think, given the position on the left, this is now a minor episode of the whole case. It is much more important to consider and talk about what will happen at the European Council. And on the basis of the information given at today's European Grand Commission meeting, Parliament should be aware that, at the European Council, compulsory resettlement quotas, legislation on them continue to be on the agenda; and not only that part of European countries and the European Left are unwilling to take this issue off the agenda, but also that they believe that migration and immigration are good. At the most, they're willing to argue whether this uncontrolled form is good or something else to do. We see, we understand, that the European Left and some of the European countries have no other answers to their various internal problems. Let us not now discuss the elites of countries that choose a solution to the problem of their own countries that clearly endangers their culture, identity, value, and society as a whole. Let's not discuss why they can't recognize that. However, one thing must be stressed: Hungary is of the opinion that if someone is helped by immigration to solve their internal problems, but do so in the European Union, it is forbidden to impose this on other countries. Do this on your own terms. We will say in the debate at the most that this is right, wrong, and what the consequences of the Schengen agreement, the consequences of the Dublin treaties, the consequences for certain countries of granting visas. But one thing is certain: Hungary, the Baltic States, the Visegrád countries and a number of other European countries strongly reject the idea that compulsory resettlement quotas could be imposed on any EU State and that this should also be expressed in the amendment of the basic law. Therefore, I invite my fellow group leaders with great respect to continue the five-party dialogue on Thursday at 10 a.m. after today's general debate, at the end of which it is possible to accept a unanimous text to Parliament by means of an agreed TAB amendment. Hungary does not request the introduction quota. Hungary rejects the introduction of foreign populations. Hungary does not ask for Brussels' violent migration policy. Thank you for your kind attention. [[Applause from the benches of the governing parties.]] [[9.50]]
u2016-10-17-18	Thank you, Mr. Group Leader. Dear Parliament, On behalf of the Government, Mr Csaba Dömötör wishes to respond. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2016-10-17-19	Before I answer, it is worth mentioning that, like the Democratic Coalition, the representatives of the Hungarian Socialist Party do not participate in the work of the Parliament. It's called avoiding work. Dear Chief of Staff, In the referendum on 2 October, a new unity for Hungary was indeed established. Despite all the cynicism and intention of debauchery on the left, it is clear that this is a community that is not organised primarily on the basis of party affiliation, because otherwise, how could it happen that one million people voted against more than the government parties were supported in 2014. This community has a clear will: 3.3 million people want no forced resettlement. This intention is stronger than the will expressed in any other previous referendum. It also shows that this is a national matter. This new national unity obliges the government. That is why the Cabinet has tabled a constitutional amendment, which can be discussed in detail in this House today. The point is that, in the future, group resettlement will be prohibited in Hungary, there will be no way around Parliament on this issue, we cannot allow Brussels to bypass the nation states. Not only is there a need for action at home. It is clear that the Brussels institutions would also speed up the implementation of resettlement programmes. The European Commission has already made it clear in the days before the referendum that it will not withdraw the quota package. The President of the Commission also called on the Member States of the European Union to respect the Brussels decision on the distribution of immigrants, so he also called it a decision. Unfortunately, at last week's meeting of the EU Home Affairs Ministers, there were once again EU politicians who threatened the Member States that rejected resettlement. Otherwise, similar threats do not rarely take the form of extortion with EU funds. These experiments are particularly outrageous if we know that EU funds are not a kind of charity donation, but compensation for opening up our markets. The European Union earns very well in Hungary, everyone knows that. It is therefore clear that the mandatory quota will not be off the agenda, and therefore the Hungarians' will must be enforced, the next location of which is this week's EU summit. The good news is that in Brussels, Hungary will be the only one who will be able to take a referendum against compulsory resettlement with the united will of 3.3 million people. So far, only Hungary has initiated a referendum on the issue of resettlement, which is an important thing. If Brussels takes seriously the democratic principles to which it constantly refers, it will understand the outcome of the referendum and will withdraw this undoubtedly wrong and dangerous proposal as soon as possible. It is clear now that the referendum is not the end of something, but the beginning of a story. The October reference was not only about Hungarians, but also about what kind of Europe we want to live in. We want a strong Europe, a Europe that protects its communities and builds on what the founding fathers of the Union have built on. We expect a long political battle, and we therefore hope that the opposition parties sitting here can put aside their raw party political considerations and consider themselves bound by the 98 percent majority of the referendum. If they don't, we already know what one of the stakes of the 2018 elections will be. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-10-17-20	I thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speeches before the agenda. The speech following today's agenda was submitted by Mr Benedek, Mr LMP; Mr Zoltán Magyar, Mr Jobbik; Mr István Szávay, Mr Jobbik; Mr Dániel Z. Kárpát, Group of Jobbik. Dear Parliament, President János Áder sent a transcript to Parliament on the appointment of President and Deputy Presidents of the Economic Competition Authority. I would ask Mr László Földi to present the transcript of the President of the Republic. Mr. Messenger!
u2016-10-17-21	Mr László Kövér, President of the Parliament. Mr President, I would like to inform the Parliament that the 1996 LVII on the prohibition of unfair market behaviour and restrictions on competition. Law 35. As of 2 November 2016, Dr. Miklós Juhász was re-appointed President of the Hungarian Competition Authority, Dr. László Bak was appointed Vice-President of the Hungarian Competition Authority for six years with effect from 1 November 2016, and Dr. András Tóth was re-appointed Vice-President of the Hungarian Competition Authority for six years with effect from 1 November 2016. Budapest, 10 October 2016 Sincerely, János Áder is President of the Republic. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry.
u2016-10-17-22	Thank you, Mr. Notary. Dear Parliament, Allow me, on behalf of the Parliament and myself, to congratulate the President and Vice-Presidents and wish them every success in their work. Dear Parliament, The agenda for our meeting starting today is coming up. We shall decide on the agenda, the duration of the meeting, the speaking time limits on the basis of a proposal put forward by the President. Please take your seats and check that your card has been placed in the voting machine. Dear Parliament, Parliamentary resolution on certain house rules 37. Pursuant to Article 1 (1) of the Rules of Procedure, Parliament may decide to negotiate certain items of the agenda in a time-frame. The proposal tabled on the basis of presidential powers initiates the T/12458 on Amendment 7 of the Fundamental Law of Hungary. The Parliament will discuss the number 1 in a 10-hour time frame. The agenda recommendation shall include a time frame allocation. I would like to ask Mr István Szávay, notary, to present the motion to divide the time frame.
u2016-10-17-23	Dear Parliament, The proposed 10-hour timeframe is divided into 206 minutes for the Fidesz Group, 114 minutes for the MSZP Group, 103 minutes for the Jobbik Group, 94 minutes for the KDNP Group, 61 minutes for the LMP Group and 22 minutes for the independent Members. The time limits provided for the factions include the 30-30 minutes lead speakers.
u2016-10-17-24	Thank you, Mr. Notary. Dear Parliament, Now it's time for the decision. I therefore ask the Honourable Parliament whether it agrees that the presentation will be discussed within a 10-hour timeframe. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the proposal by 112 votes in favour, 24 votes against and 1 abstention in the time frame. Dear Parliament, The Fidesz Group has proposed that the T/12458 T/12458, entitled The Seventh Amendment to the Fundamental Law of Hungary, be held before the interpellations are discussed at today's Parliament meeting. The opening of the general debate on the legislative proposal No.3 in such a way that the interpellation will be discussed after the speech of the first independent Member to take place following the speech of the speaker. The general debate shall continue and be concluded after the hour for immediate questions and answers. Anyone who agrees with that, please vote by raising your hands. [[Vote.]] Thank you. I declare that the visible majority of Parliament has accepted the proposal. Dear Parliament, We are now deciding on a proposal on the agenda put forward by the President. I therefore ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts the recommendation on the agenda with the amendment adopted above. Please vote by raising your hands. [[Vote.]] Thank you. I declare that the visible majority of Parliament has adopted the agenda. Dear Parliament, A decision on a personal proposal will not take place today. Dear Parliament, A general debate on the seventh amendment of Hungary's Fundamental Law will be launched. Government referral T/12458. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. I declare that the presentation will be discussed as an EU item on the agenda by the Parliament. First, I give the floor to Prime Minister Viktor Orbán, the rapporteur of the item on the agenda. Prime Minister, please.
u2016-10-17-25	Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, The government considered it appropriate, given the gravity of the case, for the Prime Minister to present you with his expo. It would be appropriate for me to listen to the group's voices and answer them in substance, but I am now asking you to excuse me from this duty and to allow me to leave after my speech to open the debate - just to avoid misunderstandings from today's sitting. [[Defiance.]] This afternoon we will hold a joint commemoration in Bavaria on the 60th anniversary of the 1956 Revolution. Therefore, after my speech, the Government will be represented in the debate by the Minister of Justice. I ask for your understanding. [[10.00]] Mr President, Ladies and Gentlemen, This is a continuation of what I had to say in the last part-session following the referendum, so I will not repeat what I said earlier here. Why has the proposal to amend the Constitution been tabled? My proposal comes from the fact that a new unit was created for Hungary after 2 October. The aim of this unit is to keep Hungary a Hungarian country; to preserve what our country has struggled with so much sweat for itself. I see this new unity overrides party political boundaries, not right- or left-wing, but simply Hungarian. The question is whether it should be, and if so, why should this new unity be expressed by means of a constitutional amendment. Our answer is that the referendum, beyond the migrant issue, was actually about our constitutional identity. Ladies and Gentlemen, The issue of constitutional identity is one of the important issues of the future, but it may also be the most important question and the summation of our debates with Brussels. Thank you to the Minister of Justice, who summarized the issue of constitutional identity for us in a great book. Ladies and gentlemen, I believe that the new unity was created to express the basic demand from the Hungarian people's souls that, without our consent and consent, no one can decide who and how we intend to live with. In my opinion, the new unity for Hungary is so broad, diverse and strong, because people feel that Hungarian independence is in danger again. He is in danger because once again international action has been taken by those who believe that nations are no longer needed; those who believe that the world must be globally inclusive; those who believe that borders must be removed; those who dream that the world, or at least Europe, will merge into one huge mass that will make national traditions, cultures, languages and laws disappear. Ladies and Gentlemen, Mr President, There is a struggle in Europe today. This struggle has become sharp because of modern migration, but in fact the migrant crisis is a symptom, but it has revealed a fundamental and undecided question: when we are talking about a common Europe, do we want to preserve a Europe of nations or build a European empire? Our community, the new unity for Hungary, wants the nations to remain - in fact, we confirmed this in 98 percent agreement - we insist that every nation can decide its own destiny, and we want to preserve Europe's diversity. On the other hand, the united states of Europe, the adherents of the new European empire, want to eliminate nations, give Brussels the key, replace responsible and democratic national decision-making with a directorate of faceless bureaucracy. Ladies and Gentlemen, CHAPTER XX All over the century, it was the national idea that prevented the experiments of imperial tyranny. Hungarian history proves with sufficient force: a nation can sink back to simple nationality at any time with the deterioration of the political and geopolitical situation. Quoting Kossuth, I can say that we Hungarians want to remain a European nation and not be a national in Europe. We Hungarians believe in the alliance of free nations and countries in Europe, and we do not believe in an empire governed by Brussels. This is what the current amendment of the Constitution is all about. I call on honourable Members to put aside their political aspects for a short time. [[An intervention from Jobbik's ranks: But so are you!]] On 2 October, 3 million 300 thousand voters from the left, liberal, fidesz, Christian Democrat and Jobbik stood up for Hungary. I suggest we follow their example. Please support the government's motion. [[Applause in the pro-government benches. Viktor Orbán is leaving the Chamber.]]
u2016-10-17-26	Thank you, Prime Minister. Dear Parliament, I would remind you that the Parliament has decided to negotiate the general debate on this proposal within a 10-hour time frame. I would like to ask Mr László Földi to explain the time frame.
u2016-10-17-27	Dear Parliament, The time frame is divided into 206 minutes for the Fidesz Group, 114 minutes for the MSZP Group, 94 minutes for the KDNP Group, 103 minutes for the Jobbik Group, 61 minutes for the LMP Group and 22 minutes for the independent Members.
u2016-10-17-28	Thank you, Mr. Notary. Dear Parliament, I would like to inform you that Members of the European Parliament with a political background, if they have indicated their intention to speak to the particular faction, may speak against the time frame of their group. Members of the European Parliament who do not have a political background and who sign up directly may use a speaking time equal to the speaking time for an independent Member. Dear Parliament, It is now time for the speeches by its representatives. The first round of these will be the speech by the lead speaker in a 30-30-minute time frame by group of representatives. The Fidesz Group indicated that two speakers presented the group's position. I give the floor to Mr Lajos Kósa. Here you go, Mr. Group Leader.
u2016-10-17-29	Mr. President. Dear House, The Fundamental Law and its amendment are always an exceptional moment in the work of the House, and it is hardly possible to say that any amendment of the Fundamental Law would be irrelevant or irrelevant, but for the first time, it is necessary to express our attachment directly and directly to the Fundamental Law in order to protect our constitutional identity in relation to the Hungarian constitutional tradition, the constitutional acquis, Hungary's history, customs, value choice and order. It is no coincidence that this is the seventh amendment, which, as we know, is an exceptional and special number in the Hungarian legendary. This seventh amendment takes place at a time when Europe and Hungary face fundamental, fundamental challenges, which, if we fail to answer, for many decades, if they cannot change the country forever, the Hungary that we know will change. [[10.10]] That Hungary will no longer be what we like it to be, the way our parents gave it to us, and the way we want to leave it to our children. If one does not believe only his own eyes, now, using the rights given by the Schengen Convention, very little money can make sure what it means when we say that migration threatens the fundamental identity of Europe and its peoples and countries. All we have to do is go to South France, go to Sweden, go to Holland, Germany, Berlin, and see with our own eyes, which only bureaucrats destined for the ivory tower in Brussels refuse to notice, even though we may now be there to open the window for them and look out, because the capital of the European Union reminds us of Tunisia, Egypt or Syria more than in Brussels in some districts. Where are the chocolate-cracking streets? He may still be present as a skanzen in some regions, although there is less and less frequent. It is no coincidence that one of the candidates of the Austrian presidential campaign wrote the following sentences in his Facebook post, accompanied by a photograph; the photograph showed Oktoberfest, which was organized surrounded by barbed wire and soldiers in Munich, and wrote: What has become of the world? The borders are not guarded, the borders are defenceless, and Oktoberfest is surrounded and guarded by soldiers. We believe that Hungary must remain the country we know it to be. The fundamental rights of Hungary, which were fitting even when it became a member of the European Union, and when it came to membership, we did not have to face the fact that at some point we would have to face the fact that we had to live together and share our country with people we do not know who they are, we do not know who they are, we do not know on what authority. At the time when the Hungarian citizens decided to become a member of the Union... - now let's ignore the incredibly stupid campaign! Do we remember him? László Kovács here in Parliament: vote for the Union, because you can have a coffee shop on Mariahilfer. In particular, everyone should go through Mariahilfer, not a single Hungarian has a café - Turkish is more so; parentheses are closed. But apart from that, when we entered the European Union, we did not give up a series of fundamental rights. There was no such thing as suffering what Hungary had already suffered in Hungarian history; it was true that they were at least, as usual, dictatorships - putting in the usual quote sign - because the Soviet Union of Stalin had made so-called exchanges of populations and evacuations, and it had removed entire nations from the map of the Soviet Union, or even from Central Europe, we have experienced this. Who the devil thought that so many years after the passing of the Stalin dictatorship, so many years after the disappearance of the MSZMP dictatorship, we would face the same phenomenon in a community of free countries, but now it is not called evacuation and population exchange, but a quota and distribution mechanism? But regardless of what we call this phenomenon, coercion change in mass sizes is prohibited even under UN statutes. No matter what kind of word flowers they try to characterize this, friendly visit, study trip, temporary stay - we remember that the Soviet army was also temporarily stationed in Hungary until the end of time, and the rest, and the rest - the UN's statutes prohibit this, as the Hungarian ombudsman himself so plasticly drew attention to. It is good, after all, that we have such an institution, as opposed to other European countries, which are otherwise extremely democratic, where the Ombudsman as a phenomenon is unknown, but we have also been drawn to our attention by the indisputablely independent Ombudsman that this intention is completely contrary to other international law. Mr. President. Dear House, When we are discussing the amendment of the basic law and we are looking at the specific text, of course, there are many aspects to be addressed. However, one thing is quite certain: the whole amendment was based on the new cooperation for Hungary, which led 3 million 360 thousand people in the referendum on 2 October in the direction of saying no, saying no to Brussels for the mandatory quota, its resettlement policy. This is the political basis for the fact that, if Parliament now accepts and I hope that it accepts the amendment of the basic law, no one in the whole world can question the legitimacy of this and the political will, even if the socialists are simply not present now. It is painful to say that the left in Hungary could never be expected to protect Hungary. Now that the 60th anniversary of 56 is approaching, we know precisely that the Hungarian left fought with the former Prime Minister, Gyula Horn, in the lead, in favour of the Soviet occupying army, rather than with the Hungarian freedom fighters. Now, when it is quite obvious that Hungarian identity, independence and identity are threatened by a new challenge, the socialists are not present. They are not present in spite of the fact that they lied - we know now - that they lied to everyone in the campaign that they considered the referendum irrelevant, but they will say yes to the debate and vote on the anti-quota law, because they do not like the quota and they also object to it, so it must be decided in Parliament. Dear fellow Members, This is the moment. Can you count on them? I can't. "The fact that they lied in the morning, at night and at night," said their former prime minister, their couple president, "is no surprise, but the fact that they are so obviously, so brutally fooling everyone, and on one of the most important issues, the issue of Hungarian identity and Hungarian freedom, I think, can surprise even the more hardened Members of Parliament. We thought in the campaign that, oh, my God, there was a new president, Gyula Molnár, maybe they'd come to their senses, break up with that tradition, maybe break up with the tradition of always stabbing Hungary in the back at the last minute. No. This is an important moment: the Hungarian Socialist Party is once again the successor of the Hungarian Socialist Workers' Party in legal and political terms. He is the successor of the Hungarian Socialist Workers' Party, the successor of the implementation of the party state dictatorship; he is faithful to this political tradition, he is not here now, he cannot be counted on. Dear Hungarian Elections! Dear Hungary! Honourable Members, Let us remember this moment; if we have to fight for Hungarian freedom, we can also be happy if the socialists do not stab us in the back, but we may not even be able to hope for that, but they cannot be counted on, that is for sure. Mr. President. Dear House, Of course, we will be debating the text submitted by the Government for a long time, and of course it can be improved, because there are some wordings that can be clarified, and it is also a very important political issue, precisely the Hungarian left-wing emphasizes the aspect that Jobbik has raised, namely that, in addition to the amendment of the Fundamental Law, when we grant the power for Parliament to settle in a sectoral law the conditions under which it can live in Hungary - not a Hungarian citizen or a non-EU citizen, or even citizens of a few other countries with whom the Union has a contract in this regard, Switzerland, Norway - so when we decide on this law, let us tie this to a fundamentality. Entrepreneurship, because we really believe that democracy is in place, and I am quite sure that other parliamentary parties can get a majority in an election campaign. [[10.20]] But let us not risk that this majority or the electoral struggle should be equivalent to the life-fight that Hungary will lose or not be what we have known it to be. It is therefore quite obvious that a compromise can be reached with Jobbik on this issue, in addition to the fact that, of course, it is a question of wording, whether we should now make a specific law to the fundamentals, or whether we should make a regulatory circle to the fundamentals, in order to prevent deception. But I do see that, and the first inter-group consultation has revealed that there is no fundamental fundamental obstacle to the compromise that is irresistible. I would like to thank those of the parliamentary factions who took part in the conciliation and are willing to join forces to defend Hungarian freedom, putting aside party policy considerations, such as KDNP, Jobbik and, of course, Fidesz, for supporting me in this matter. We would like to create a good text, and we would like to draw attention to the fact that if someone thought that we were fighting ghosts, fighting non-existent things, then look at what is happening in the European Commission and in the European Parliament. The committees of the European Parliament are discussing the legislative proposal on the compulsory resettlement quota. Even though we think, together with Slovaks and others, that this is a procedure which is legally unfounded, it could fail in itself, we see that constitutional protection is not enough. We see that the European statute, the European Treaty, is not enough to do so, because Brussels is loosely ignoring its own rules. It is no coincidence that there is a Member State in the European Union whose basic law already excludes the introduction of a foreign population in black and white, i.e. the compulsory resettlement quota. It will be very important in the debate that these statutes, these constitutions and fundamental laws have not been questioned so far. So if someone gets caught up in this in connection with the Hungarian Constitution, then all you have to say is that, please, years ago, European countries whose basic legislation, its basic law, ruled out this, namely the relocation of the foreign population on the basis of quota. If this is not an excuse for others, then there can be no excuse in Hungary for the majority created with a new cooperation. And how real the European threat is, the European threat, about which József Szájer, a Member of the European Parliament, will speak to you as another leading speaker of the Fidesz faction. I thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2016-10-17-30	Thank you, Mr. Group Leader. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr Szájer, Member of the European Parliament, another lead speaker of the Fidesz Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2016-10-17-31	Mr President, Dear Minister of Justice, Dear Members, Ladies and Gentlemen, Thank you for the opportunity and perhaps the fact that a Member of the European Parliament is speaking at the beginning of the amendment of the Hungarian Fundamental Law, shows that there is a chance and there is a possibility that the Hungarian national and European Community institutions will understand each other when we return to the ground of rationality and dialogue. The adoption of the Hungarian Fundamental Law and the history of the last ten years, when the constitutional relationship between Hungary and the European Union was clarified, is a very interesting story. Allow me to include those who may have forgotten about this in the midst of domestic debates. The story began by establishing a rule in line with Article E) of our current Fundamental Law, which, in fact, regulated the relationship between the European Union and Hungary, the Hungarian institutions, in accordance with our understanding today. What's the point? Many people spoke at the time, when we joined the European Union, about handing over our powers, giving up our sovereignty, giving up part of our sovereignty. This is not the path we chose. At the time, the Hungarian constitution clearly stated that Hungary will not renounce or surrender its sovereignty to another country or group of countries, but that we will exercise part of our sovereignty together with other institutions of the European Union. This is the European Parliament, the European Commission, the Court of Justice. Of course, many people can say that this is a game with words, because we are actually involved in the functioning of the European Union in the same legal sense as, say, Denmark, Austria or France, which did not include such a clause in its constitution. At the same time, in reality it expresses that the people, the nation, the Hungarian nation are the source of sovereignty and power in this regard. If nothing else, it should serve as excellent reverse evidence that, where appropriate, a European nation, such as the British, has decided not to become a part of the European Union, so that it does not wish to participate in the joint exercise of these common powers. Hungary does not plan such a thing. Many people have been alarmed by this in recent weeks' electoral campaigns, but in reality we are not planning to withdraw from EU powers, but to clarify the legal relationship between the European Union and Hungary. Believe me, this is a process, and in this, in our relationship with the European Union, Article E is at the moment a key issue in Article E of our Fundamental Law. After all, it is quite clear that sovereignty remains with Hungary, but there is a missing item in this article that states that there is a limit to the common exercise of power, the common exercise of authority beyond which we do not wish to go. This is where the item that the Prime Minister has just spoken about comes in, and the Minister of Justice has merited the fact that he has brought this aspect into Hungarian public-law thinking in a sharp and clear way, the question of constitutional identity. The constitutional identity contains the most important magic of a state, a nation. This includes the territory, the population, the state form. In fact, the European system recognises that it has introduced the very clear wording of the Lisbon Treaty that calls for respect for the constitutional identity of nations. This is right at the beginning of the contract. So a process started in 2004 by Hungary, which is now being carried out by this amendment of the Constitution in the sense of determining the size of the circle if we wish to exercise powers together and which we do not. This struggle is, by the way, taking place all over Europe, and it is actually a product of the last ten years. This has lots of stations. No one, if we go through this story, I'm not gonna bore you with this, but if we go through this story, we can see that there are steps forward and steps back. This is a real struggle, a real struggle in which nations seek to defend their own sovereignty. Here is the example right now, the struggle of the German Constitutional Court in the most influential and with the greatest population in the Union, which has no longer taken a decision in the sense of protecting the core of German constitutional identity, parts of the German constitution which form the centre of this and in which the European Union or any other external body has no competence and cannot interfere. A further step in the constitutional history of both the Union and Hungary is an important step in this current constitutional amendment, and I must say that, in terms of current European relations, it is quite clear that this is both in line with today's trends and with the current EU rules of competence, the Treaties establishing the European Union, the Lisbon Treaty. [[10.30]] Of course, there is a debate about this, there is a political debate both in the European Parliament and in Europe, in individual capitals, absolutely natural. After all, we do not look forward to, let us say, the Court of Luxembourg of the Union, which we know is to regularly apply the item which the British were about to take out - but they did not take out the item, but they took themselves out of the European Union - which is about an ever closing union, an ever-increasing alliance. The British simply asked that, in order for them to remain in the European Union, they do not have to apply this rule, while the European Court of Justice continues to apply these rules and, in many judgments, we can see the wording of these rules. That is why it is important that we clearly define the boundaries that are important to us in this regard at the national state level and as far as we want to go. Accession to the European Union was a learning process in this respect, and obviously at the beginning - we decided by referendum at the same time - we were pleased to be able to participate in the work of this great community. We respected them, for many decades we looked at the West as an example of democracy, the rule of law and prosperity for Hungary. The past thirteen years have taught us that the stone of wise men is not in their pockets. The fact that they are more experienced is largely due to their wealth and luck, but they may not be smarter than we are. In this sense, therefore, Europe - I would also say - is uniting, because the kind of distinction that there are who are in the direction and who will follow it. Hungary gave up this aspect a few years ago and decided that from now on we will not always follow the ideas that are formulated in Western Europe. Don't get me wrong, it's not that we don't follow European Union law, we often get this accusation, but the stormy history of recent years shows that we have always respected European Union law, and we thought it important that if someone is a member of the club, then the rules of the club must be respected. But when legislation is born, or when these laws are applied and there is doubt as to the application, it is clear that there are choices, and in these situations, we must use our own brains. And I don't have to go into detail, because many words have already been said in this House, here is the case of immigration, on which I think it is right for Hungary to use its brains and not to be addicted to ideological entanglements, as we see in many places in Western Europe. And Lajos Kósa has just said that I will report on what is going on in the European Union - I will do so briefly, because I am talking more about constitutional parts. But believe me, Communist, socialist, green or liberal Members of the European Parliament still stand up in order today, but even in the People's Party there are people who say that they should let everyone in, and everyone who is allowed in, immediately guarantee all rights, even in certain more extreme wordings the right to vote and to choose, because otherwise, those who do not do this are inhuman, they are not Christian, they are not worthy of the label of Europeanism. These are debates, we do not have to accept these labels, because we have a rational and clear position, which is reflected in the Fundamental Law itself. And if we go on with the amendments, we can clearly see that the Fundamental Law is creating a new category of legal constitutional law in Hungarian law, as Lajos Kósa has already said, with the ban on the introduction of the foreign population, and that there is one in the law of other countries. This is also due to the principle of constitutional identity that the population, a country, a nation, a Member State, an EU Member State is the most fundamental condition for ensuring their identity and normal life, and that decisions on this matter are within national competence. But if someone doesn't understand this, because there are people who don't understand it at home, and when I hear it, I read the newspapers, there are politicians who can't make this clear to themselves, for example, the issue of citizenship, with which immigration, asylum, has a very close relationship, clearly does not fall within the competence of the European Union. Many people talk about European citizenship, but this category does not exist in virtually any of the practical elements of the Lisbon Treaty other than a secluded passage, this is a question that needs to be debated for a long time whether it should be so, but these issues, these matters, at the moment, fall within national competence. There is not a single body in the European Union that can give citizenship to anyone. Only the Member States, only Hungary, France and Spain, can provide these rules. The other issue, which I believe is correctly recorded in this draft, and I would like to express my opinion on this, is the relationship between the various international treaties on asylum and the Hungarian Fundamental Law. In this respect, too, there is a huge confusion, because there are extremists who make the above mentioned, let everyone enter their ideas without any condition, and, of course, there is another one that does not take account of international treaties. Hungary has been a member of the Geneva Convention for many decades and we strive to comply with it. However, the Geneva Convention has nothing to do with this idea, not even the Dublin Convention, which sets out the treaties of the European Union in which the European Union already provides a higher level of protection for asylum seekers and refugees than in Geneva, even lower than what Brussels policies represent today, for example, or the new draft Dublin Convention, which is also on the table of the European Parliament. Therefore, I think it is right that we should create a law that can ensure long-term asylum issues and that clarifies the relationship between international treaties and Hungarian legislation, which cannot be changed from one minute to the next according to political winds. So if the rules for granting refugee rights, asylum applications, for which Hungary is otherwise bound by an international treaty, we do not want to leave these contracts, we want to change them at the most in the right direction based on the experience of the past years... - it provides the right guarantee if the Fundamental Law also has and builds safeguards in this respect. Ladies and Gentlemen, The constitutional issues of accession to the European Union are very complex issues, but at the same time they are deeply political issues. The Hungarian people decided in a referendum, a referendum where if it had taken as many outgoing votes in its proportions to succeed as in Britain, Great Britain would still be a member of the European Union today, as some 40 percent of the Hungarian population decided to do so. Compared to the population, only thirty percent decided to leave the British, so the Hungarians voted in greater unity. If the same story had taken place in Great Britain in accordance with the conditions here, then Great Britain would have remained a member of the Union - some people would have liked it. Ladies and Gentlemen, This is therefore an issue of public interest, which interests people, citizens, and therefore constitutional lawyers, lawyers, are obliged to explain these questions to Hungarian citizens. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] I would like to congratulate the Hungarian Government on this presentation and wish Parliament good luck in this discussion. You will make an important decision with European impact, fellow Members. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-10-17-32	Thank you very much, Congressman. I would like to inform the honourable Parliament that the Member has made his speech as a speaker at the expense of the time frame of the Fidesz Group. Dear Parliament, The MSZP Group does not participate in the debate. Mr Gábor Vona, the lead speaker of the Jobbik Group, will be here to speak. I give you the floor, Mr. Group Leader. [[10.40]]
u2016-10-17-33	Mr President, Dear Parliament, I would like to start by saying a fact which, I think, is crucial for the whole debate, and that is that multiculturalism, as a social arrangement, has failed in Western Europe. That's what we need to start with. In Western Europe there have been demographic, economic, social security and other reasons why multiculturalism has been attempted to develop society, and it has now been proven that this does not work. In the United States, the present and future of multiculturalism is, of course, quite different from that of Western Europe, but in Western Europe, and therefore in our number it is important to say this, multiculturalism is not working. Here, I note only in parentheses that the vision of the European United States, which can be such a vision of the European Union, is also thought to be a way for us at all, since it is clear from this question that what is functional in the United States or how it works in Europe is not necessarily closed - parentheses. The Western European question is therefore not whether or not to be multiculturalism, which is a Western European question of how to live with multiculturalism; whether there is a national concept, whether there is a social link that can hold such a heterogeneous, such a complex social environment together, where there really is no common basis that would guarantee it. What is the answer to this question, whether this is possible or not, is not for this Parliament, it is not for me to determine, this is the problem of Western Europe, of course we are pressing for them to solve this problem, but our situation here in Eastern Central Europe is quite different. We can decide whether we want to live in multiculturalism or to preserve the monocultural social arrangement that we inherited throughout history, and for which, by the way, if we are approaching the 60th anniversary of 1956, let us say that the Hungarian nation has fought a great deal in its history. There are also minorities in Hungary, but living together with minorities is harmonious, even with Gypsy minorities in many ways problematic or conflicting coexistence is a very different situation and is much less problematic than a compulsory quota or compulsory resettlement which would upset this monocultural arrangement of Hungary. This compulsory introduction would be violent, and would be of international legal concern, a sudden decision, the historical perspective of which is essentially unthinkable and would put Hungary on a completely inorganic social agenda. Let us also be very honest about the fact that Hungary also has an economic and social imperative that we have to face, whether in terms of demographic or labour market data. But it is clear to all of us what Hungarian society thinks about this issue. The overwhelming majority of Hungarian society - and we shouldn't have held a referendum for this, as we knew without it - reject multiculturalism and reject mandatory quotas and compulsory resettlements. So politics, we here in Parliament, have nothing to do but to picture the position of Hungarian society and the opinion of Hungarian society here in the legal order. Let us briefly consider what has happened so far, how we have come to be standing here now, discussing the amendment of the Fundamental Law. I'd go back to last fall in my flashback. Last autumn, the idea of quotas will be raised in the European Union, and not only will it be raised, but there will be serious work to be done to introduce mandatory quotas in the European Union in various bodies, and Jobbik will come forward immediately, and I myself will come up here, in this place, with a proposal to hold a referendum on this issue. In Hungarian society, the idea of introducing quotas has caused great indignation; think about the events in Röszke. I think that at the moment when we raised the idea of a referendum, the social atmosphere was absolutely right to hold an effective and valid referendum. Then, by the way, I would remind the Fidesz and KDNP groups, under the leadership of the Prime Minister, they came up with a rather foggy proposal for a world quota, which, I think, was more of a dead political product in the hamva, but unfortunately, your initiative in the referendum was rejected at the time, even though once again, it was in the air to hold a successful referendum. Then time passes, we get to spring of this year, and in the spring of this year, a scandalous series of events took place in front of the National Election Office - I'm not telling you exactly what we are, because we can all remember it. Let me add, however, that it has not been clarified exactly what happened there in front of the National Election Office, but on the very next day, Prime Minister, instead of investigating this matter, fled ahead and announced the idea of a referendum, he announced it when, on the other hand, the social impact, the social atmosphere, was not necessarily sufficient to make this an effective and valid referendum. In this Parliament, I and my fellow Members have drawn attention to this on numerous occasions. We have repeatedly warned you that the referendum in this situation, in which Hungary is now in place, can harm Hungary in the event of nullity rather than use it, but you have not really listened to our arguments. We also suggested that the best solution might be a fundamental law amendment for Hungary, but you rejected this, even though you rejected 15 billion forints, an invalid referendum, the effects of which I would like to talk about later, and we could have saved Hungary six months. It was a typical moment of this time when the cameras were on before the Justice Committee meeting, but one of the television crew recorded the conversation of our fellow Member György Rubovszky there, from which we learned that our fellow Member could be at the cost of house violations, but he would prevent Jobbik's basic law-modifying proposal from getting to Parliament. [[Intruder from Jobbik's ranks: Shame!]] 'Cause then we shouldn't have a referendum. I remember, still here, Minister Antal Rogán sat across from me when I said how happy the amendment of the basic law was, but then I didn't really see the joy in his face, and I haven't been able to see it, of course, since then, but how much easier and how much better it would have been if you had accepted it from us then and didn't force our fellow Member Mr Rubovszky into such an unworthy situation. Even the legendary sentence that Viktor won't allow it was said, didn't it? This may be one of the ten most embarrassing moments in the political history of Hungary after the change of regime. With so many events we have come here to discuss the amendment of the Fundamental Law here, we are past the referendum, and let us say that after the referendum Hungary was in a worse position than before the referendum, in several respects - on the one hand, internal policy. We have heard of the creation of a new unity here on behalf of Mr Lajos Kósa, Prime Minister. I'm not the Fidesz communications consultant, thank God, but I'm asking you to remove this disk now because it doesn't cover reality so much that I don't even think it works for Árpád Habony to transfer it to you as a communications panel in the long term. It's really a political product, but it doesn't ring a bell. They did not create a new unity with this referendum in Hungary, but a new division, unfortunately. The overwhelming majority of Hungarian society, millions of people, not 3.3 million, but many more people think that there is no place to introduce this quota in Hungary. You've managed to split this number in half at least. Many people have not gone to this referendum, although they agree with the rejection of quotas, because they disagreed with the campaign, the party political goal and the political exercise of Viktor Orbán, with which you tried to push it down the throat of Hungarian society. In essence, all you have done with this question is try to achieve political success for yourselves alone, and at the cost of this or the altar of this, you have been able to do a great harm to the whole country. The other, with which we have also stepped back, and let us talk about this, because the Socialists are not here, but you have given them an argument with this invalid referendum, because, one thousand more, between us, we say that what they say has a constitutional logic. So the question is, after an unsuccessful referendum, how much we have the right to amend the Fundamental Law here. Unfortunately, this idea has a logic. There is no moral basis, and I also reject the attacks on the left in this direction, but the fact that the left can even say that it can raise such an argument is precisely due to your failing referendum. The third, perhaps the most serious, consequence of the nullity of the referendum is the collapse of the foreign policy position. After all, as we have repeatedly said, even before the referendum, we have warned about this, and we can give Brussels an invalid referendum, well, unfortunately, this has happened. Here you can say the new unit, you can say the unprecedented collaboration and 3.3 million people, which, of course, is very nice and very good, but Brussels will not be interested in this. Brussels will be interested in only one thing: in Hungary the referendum was invalid. That's what he's gonna argue with. [[Interviews from the Fidesz ranks.]] and that Brussels can argue with this, we owe it to you, your failing referendum, while despite our countless warnings, you have not changed your mind. [[10.50]] Unfortunately, the domino effect is also missing - and this is still part of the international consequences - what we were hoping for, because after what happened in Hungary, we cannot expect that the Eastern Central European Member States, where quotas are also rejected, will start dumping referendums on quotas. Unfortunately, this domino effect is cancelled, and this is again due to a failed referendum. In fact, I do not want to paint the devil on the wall, but it can turn back, because in Brussels they can also say that if Hungary has not rejected the introduction of quotas in a valid referendum, it means that quotas can be introduced in Hungary. After all this, after the damage caused by your referendum to Hungary, I think it would be a completely political or tactical attitude to say that we will not be involved in this debate, we will throw their basic legislative amendment proposal back on the table, go to hell with it, eat what they have cooked, and then somehow somehow, they will fail. That would be a political attitude, a tactical attitude, but that's not how Jobbik behaves on matters of national importance. I think that deciding the fate of a country here in Parliament requires such responsibility and competence as to be able to decide when there is room for politics, tactical action, and when there is room for cooperation for the nation. I think it is such a situation, and Jobbik here is not taking part in this debate on the basis of political and not tactical considerations, but because he thinks it is his patriotic duty. What is the purpose of this amendment to the basic law, honourable Members? I have already mentioned that we should start this debate at a symbolic time, since we have turned to the week at the end of which we will commemorate the 60th anniversary of 1956. Perhaps it is not an exaggeration to say that if the compulsory quotas were introduced in Hungary, we would lose all the meaning of our fight for freedom or our struggle for sovereignty. Everything we commemorate on our national holidays would essentially be in parentheses. I am also saying this because if we agree on this, and I trust that we agree on this, then it is very regrettable to have the left-wing attitude that we are now experiencing. What is the logic of left-wing parties? I think that this is also an unworthy attitude for left-wing voters, which is not worthy of patriotic-minded left-wing voters, because the left-wing parties are saying that Viktor Orbán has done wrong, and even though it would be possible now to amend the basic law to alleviate the damage, we are doing wrong or trying to do wrong with Viktor Orbán. The fact that we're doing bad things to the country doesn't interest them. What an attitude! I have spoken long and hard about how irresponsible your referendum initiative has been, but I think that the answer to government irresponsibleness is not opposition irresponsible. We want to replace you in 2018, and we will replace you anyway. We are the strongest opposition party. [[Defiance on the pro-government side.]] I thought this would inspire you immediately. I could have told you that either we were gonna relieve you or no one, but we're gonna relieve you. We are here, and we are putting up with your sometimes unkind comments or shouts, so we are here because we believe that this is our patriotic duty, and this debate is not about party politics. Hungary under Article 21 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union There will be countless challenges in the century, just as in the previous centuries, our sovereignty has been constantly challenged. Don't get any illusions, it's the 21st. It's gonna be the same in the first century. And what we will be able to do with these challenges, these probable attacks on our sovereignty, depends on our ability to build bridges towards each other instead of walls. The only chance we have is to try at least on national matters, on national issues, by putting party political affiliation aside. This would, of course, also require that Article XX should be amended accordingly. We're finally closing down the company. I have already said that we are approaching 1956 on 23 October; it would be very good if, 26 years after the so-called system change, we finally made the list of agents public and helped Hungary to get into the catharsis so that it could finally get started and finally cross over to XXI. It's a century. It is also worth considering the question that, approaching the tenth anniversary of 2006, because we will not only reach the 60th anniversary of 56 but also the 10th anniversary of 2006, whether it is fair that on one side people were severely punished in the first instance of the Hungarian court and on the other side there was no accountability or justice. So, we should move on now, and it would be worth moving on from left to right divisions, because this is creating an artificial division in Hungarian society that does not lead us forward. The cooperation of people who love their homeland will be needed in the 21st century. This is why we are here in this debate. That is why I said at my press conference after the referendum that Jobbik also wants to represent those who went to the referendum and voted no, but also those who did not leave, but who also reject quotas, but who remained at home because of the government's referendum campaign. The point, and a word, as a hundred, is the most important message that we are here today and in the coming days to create Hungary's strongest, safest, most effective basic law protection to protect Hungary from the challenge of quotas. Allow me to say a few words about constitutional issues in the debate. József Szájer, MEP, spoke about this. Allow me to add a few sentences to that. The debate is essentially about the conflict between EU law and the law of the Member States and will be about in the future. In this, Jobbik's group mainly studied the work of the German Constitutional Court more closely and considers it to be a guide for itself. I would like to point out that there is only a secondary source of EU law on quotas, so it makes sense to amend the Hungarian Fundamental Law. We must reject the accusations that say that the amendment of the Hungarian Fundamental Law will not be able or cannot currently be able to defend Hungary, because we believe that what is happening on the part of the European Union, on the part of the European Union institutions, is an excessive exercise of competence by reference to secondary sources of EU law. In such a situation, Hungary has several rights and multiple grounds to oppose the amendment of the Fundamental Law. I think that we have not only moral superiority, but also legal justice in this fight. The task of the Hungarian Fundamental Law is, according to our position, to determine the minimum sovereignty that can protect Hungary in this situation. That is why we consider it important that we take part in this debate, which is why we consider it important to make constructive proposals to contribute to the final form of the fundamental law amendment. I would ask the pro-government groups to treat our constructivity in this debate with similar constructivity, to consider the proposals that we have tabled, including our proposal already mentioned by Lajos Kósa, which would make the law that Parliament will establish into a two-thirds fundamental law. I think that this is a very important proposal, and I would specifically ask for the support of the pro-government groups. But in our other proposals, I also ask that constructive parties of government be your response to the constructive opposition. In recent times, as I said in the first half of my speech, it has been confirmed several times that Jobbik was right. In this debate, I think it would be advisable not to sacrifice six months or billions of forints to make them realize once again that Jobbik will be right. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2016-10-17-34	Thank you, Deputy Group Leader. Dear Parliament, The KDNP Group indicated that two speakers presented the group's position. First, I give the floor to Congressman Imre Vejkey.
u2016-10-17-35	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, On 10 October 2016, Prime Minister Viktor Orbán submitted the seventh amendment of the Fundamental Law to the Parliament on the basis of the results of the quota referendum on 2 October 2016. The new unity created by the referendum is the unanimous will of Hungary, which, by more than 98 percent, clearly stated that there should be no forced resettlement in Hungary. The Hungarians, empathizing with their responsibility for the future of the nation, have never voted so uniformly since the change of regime, so the Hungarians have an obligation to keep their will in mind at home and abroad, and we Hungarian MPs must do everything in addition to the above in order to establish the nation's almost 100% one-way will by law. Ladies and Gentlemen, The main objective of supplementing the Fundamental Law is to prevent the compulsory group resettlement of migrants to Hungary in order to protect the sovereignty of our country. The amendment of the Fundamental Law clearly states the message of the referendum, i.e. categorically forbids the resettlement of a foreign population from Brussels to be ordered. [[11.00]] Furthermore, the amendment of the Fundamental Law makes it clear that Hungary's constitutional identity cannot be limited, that its inalienable right to dispose of its territorial unity and population as a result of its sovereignty cannot be called into question. Ladies and Gentlemen, In substance, the amendments concern four points of the Fundamental Law. The first amendment, in connection with our National Creed, states that it is a fundamental obligation of the state to protect our constitutional identity, which is rooted in the historic constitution. The second amendment point states, in order to ensure Hungary's participation as an EU Member State, that the exercise of joint powers must be consistent with the fundamental rights and freedoms enshrined in the Fundamental Law and should not restrict the inalienable right of Hungary to dispose of its territorial unit, population, state form and state. The above provision is a constitutional core which is a limit to EU law, while Hungary remains committed to its membership in the EU, because we consider European values to be important. Ladies and Gentlemen, At the same time, the amendment of the basic law states that the protection of constitutional identity is an obligation of all the organs of the state, and therefore, due to its legal nature, it applies to all branches of power, including the Hungarian courts. We also note that no foreign population can be deployed to the territory of Hungary; foreign citizens can only live in Hungary if the Hungarian authority has assessed and explicitly contributed to the request in the police procedure created by the Parliament. This provision shall not apply to citizens of the European Economic Area. Ladies and Gentlemen, The first referendum on the issue of forced resettlement in Europe was initiated by the Government of Hungary. While Hungary has become more democratic with this referendum, Europe has issued an anti-democratic certificate of itself. Thus, while Europe is, on the one hand, becoming more and more undemocratic today, on the other hand, more and more unviable, especially because its political leaders have continuously and systematically eradicated Christian values from the everyday tissues of Europe's economic and social life over the last decades. Ladies and Gentlemen, The future of our continent, thus the future of the so-called Western world, is largely based on whether Europe will succeed in stepping out of christophobia, or questioning the Christian roots on which it is based. Europe is not viable today because its political leaders have wiped out Christian values from the everyday fabric of its economic and social life. Today, Europe is feverishly ill, because fakehumanum and immorality are disrupting the expansion of freedoms, while an organized invasion is taking place against our continent, the indigenous population itself. By means of the Juncker and the other crowned bastards of Europe, Western Europe is increasingly transformed into a potential for desperate and adventurous people, while Islam is spreading like wildfire, which directs its total ideology against Christian culture. We are beginning to think that migrants are no longer pretending to want to fit into European society, but are immediately taking up space and creating a parallel society according to their laws, because they do not share the European value system. The leaders of the European Union do not notice or want to notice that if they continue to play confrontation, we will all end up failing. Ladies and Gentlemen, We Christian Democrats cannot assist in this, even if the Holy See wishes us to see the invasion only from the side of individual migrants as victims, not from the side of Hungarian and European people's right to life, protection and security. Ladies and Gentlemen, The proper response to today's challenges cannot be given either by the European Union or by its institutions. Over the past years, it has been pointed out that the way in which Europe is going is only increasing and that conflicts will increase even more in the future. Return to the basic thesis of the founding fathers of the EU: Europe will be either Christian or not. In the book of the prophet Ezekiel, we read that if the watchman sees the armed enemy coming, but does not blow the horn and warn the people, God will ask of him for lost human lives. Ladies and Gentlemen, God ordered us to be watchmen, and we blew the horn. We have highlighted that there is not a simple refugee crisis in the world today and in Europe, but that the world is being reorganized. Today, as in 2015, hundreds of thousands of migrants are heading back to Germany, England, Denmark and Sweden, and Austria, which is now one of the richest ten countries in the world, is no longer suitable for many of them. Millions are preparing, including an undetermined number of military youths, many of whom are extremist Islamic warriors. They need to know that only one million people from Libya want to cross our continent, while in Turkey there are three million people waiting for this in different camps, and for now it is only up to the good of the Turks how long this crowd will be held back and when it will be allowed to go to Greece. And Greece is already raising its hand in advance, saying that it was not part of the conflicts that caused the migrants to be here. This means that Greece will release the millions of migrants to the Balkans without a word, where individual countries are also busy with their own problems, i.e. the flood could be here soon at our southern border. Migration pressure is therefore increasing and will only increase in the future. Ladies and Gentlemen, Thus, while medieval, bloody religious wars are raging in the Middle East and North Africa, certain actors in history, especially from overseas, are not only encouraging the wave of migration, but also putting it in their own service, i.e. extending the theatre of war to Europe, even exporting Shiita Sunni, Turkish-Kurd, and other national and tribal conflicts. As a result of the mass, organised, aggressive and illegal migrant invasion, the free interoperability of the Schengen borders without controls has become more than questionable. For a large part of the Member States have re-established the abolished internal border surveillance and carry out regular depth checks. This violates one of the fundamental principles of the European Union, the free movement of labour between Member States, as a longer waiting day at internal borders makes it impossible to work freely. The increase in migration will lead to an increase in European destabilisation. The current political leadership of Europe does not recognise this. Europe's current political leadership has basically failed because it is unable to protect its own citizens and its external borders from the refugee chariots rolling into Europe, and they do not realize that the second-to-last act of Europe's death dance has begun. The curtains are already up, and the characters are on stage. Ladies and Gentlemen, We therefore need to stop the recent refugee flood, which threatens European identity by seeking better living conditions for migrants in Europe, but does not want to change their attitude and culture. The free movement of labour between Member States must be restored. People's migration is a humanitarian issue, but its true nature is spatial reservation. The demographic difference between immigrants and the indigenous population in Europe is so great that if we allow them into our continent without limit, there will soon be more than us and their supply will be unlimited. [[11.10]] Europe must therefore stop the unlimited resettlement, with the aim of completely redefining the continent's religious, cultural and ethnic map in order to create a European united states over nation states. Ladies and Gentlemen, Today, the rights of Christian Europe, European peoples and nations, Christian people, based on freedom and security are being violated and even worse: they are corrupting souls, because a tyrant ideology is coming, on the one hand, based on saria, which knows nothing but its own law, and on the other, forcing its subjects to run to the ground in order to steal the goods of Christian Europe; first, only in the form of aid and support, and later directly. Europe is sick and puts its head in the sand because it lets its people and its Christian values perish. So we must try to heal it, and the way to do that is to lead Europe back to its roots, to Christian values, by recalling the great fights it has fought for the protection of heroic Christian values and freedom. We Hungarians must be aware that this fight was once successfully fought by the sons of other peoples than the Hungarian people. CHAPTER XVI Pope Benedict taught us at one of his last audiences in St. Peter's Basilica that we Hungarians should take care of St. Stephen's heritage, the Christian Hungary. You can't be a citizen of the world, you have to be at home somewhere. We Hungarians are at home in the Carpathian Basin, and we are responsible for each other, for the fate and future of the nation before God. Ladies and Gentlemen, In history, aliens have never entered Europe so easily. Today's leaders in Europe have also given up on stopping aliens and asking them who they are, where they came from and why they came. We Hungarians, by means of our freedom fights, also know that not only alien invaders can cause the loss of a nation, but also helpless and incompetent leaders, who, because of their own weakness, are able to betray or sell their own freedom. Europe is today full of such incompetent leaders, helpless ones, who, because of their own weakness, are able to sacrifice their own nation and their own people. Today's leaders in Europe demand unconditional solidarity, inclusion, and tolerance for peace. Today's leaders of Europe violate the sovereignty of nations when, without authority, millions of foreigners are invited and distributed among countries, not to think that the iron curtain they speak of has created slavery and the technical border lock is a pledge of our freedom. Today's leaders in Europe have forgotten to ask European people whether they want Europe's composition, culture, order and faith to change forever. Ladies and Gentlemen, Europe's powerful leaders, together with Brussels, are therefore building a new dictatorship, because they do not seek the opinion of their own and EU citizens on fundamental rights issues, and bypass national parliaments, they also take binding decisions on matters outside the competence of the European Union. They should know that the European Union has already decided on a whole quota package above our heads, because it wants to have immigrants in place in individual Member States. Remember, our future, our security and our culture are at stake here. Unfortunately, the fact that Europe's security situation has fallen dramatically over the past period because of inadequate European leaders is de facto the result of the migration invasion and the ever-increasing threat of terrorism and the deterioration of public security. Ladies and Gentlemen, Do you think this is the kind of Europe the founding fathers, Adenauer, Schuman, De Gasperi, dreamed of? The answer is no. The Hungarians' answer is 98 percent that it was enough. Hungary protects itself, its freedom and protects Europe. Hungary believes that the EU cannot build its future on immigration instead of families, as there is no less at stake than the survival of European civilisation and culture. On the basis of the above, we are strongly opposed to the compulsory resettlement quota system, instead of the distribution of immigrants, we are in favour of measures to eliminate immigration, because the EU does not have the right to install people in Hungary or in any Member State, and no Member State has delegated such powers to the Union at the time of accession, and no EU treaties have installed such powers in EU bodies. At the time of accession, no Member State transferred its constitutional identity to the Union, and the treaties also state that national identity is respected by the EU. One of the key elements of constitutional and national identity is the composition of the population living in that area, as well as its linguistic, cultural and ethnic aspects. The Union is deliberately and misbelievingly exceeding its powers, as international treaties clearly state that even decisions in the common asylum policy should not affect the competences of a Member State to maintain public order or to preserve internal security, and the last year and a half have shown that there is a direct link between migration and the situation of European security policy. Ladies and Gentlemen, The construction of the Brussels dictatorship must therefore be stopped, and the referendum was the best way to do so, because the opinion of Hungarian and European citizens must be sought. Untenable and unacceptable is Joachim Gauck's position, who says that the problem is not the elite, but the people who do not accept the problem at present. We need to make it clear that no one can avoid people, no one can ignore the opinion of a nation's citizens. Ladies and Gentlemen, On this basis, please support the seventh amendment to the Fundamental Law. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-10-17-36	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congressman Miklós Soltesz, another lead speaker of the KDNP Group. You have 10 minutes and 50 seconds for the congressman.
u2016-10-17-37	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, The seventh amendment of the Fundamental Law requires a clear decision in the face of a serious global political crisis. The referendum on 2 October gave the power to do so, and in vain some parties played for failure, invalidity, the fall of the Fidesz-KDNP party alliance, Gábor Vona and Jobbik for the resignation of the Prime Minister, and I add, with whispering boycott for failure, but 3 million 360 thousand people in common did not say that there was enough of Brussels' policy, 98 percent of the valid votes voted in a single direction. I'll add: those who say it wasn't valid. [[Adam Mirkóczki: Why, was it?]] It is worth noting that in most European states this referendum would have been valid [[Dóra Dúró: You think this is how it should be. Márton Gyöngyösi: So much for sovereignty!]] It is also worth knowing that 3 million 56 thousand people voted to join the European Union in 2003. People have clearly said enough about Brussels' mandatory resettlement policy. The Hungarian people said that they wanted to protect their country, and many, many forums sent a message to the government that solidarity, assistance should be practiced locally, problems should be dealt with at the root. This is the clear will that the left is facing, ignoring the message of the voters, including the left-wing voters. The fact that Ferenc Gyurcsány is not here, he declared a boycott, and I don't really think he's bothered anyone, he hasn't been to Parliament before, and it's irresponsible to be their behavior. That LMP can't remember a meeting date, messing up locations, and then playing an offended kid, acting like a pouty kid. [[Dr. Wind Bernadett: We're here! We're here! Have you been able to read what the LMP looks like?]] , frivolous, and from this point on, every decision of the LMP, every single message of it, indicates that any example and subject it brings up here in Parliament is that they are frivolous. [[11.20]] Dear Parliament, There's no social media anywhere. While they continue to think of themselves as leaders of the left, they are pleased, but they are cowards to participate in the debate. They ignore the will of their constituents. They ignore the news, which, within a short period of a year and a half, reported a more ignominious and terrible act on the behaviour of migrants across Europe. There have been hundreds of reports in the last year and a half, hundreds of reports showing more terrible acts across Europe. Last year, they tried to kill a priest in Malmö. Unfortunately, this summer, in France, we've already succeeded in massing. More than 120 people were killed in the terrorist attacks in Paris. All over Germany, there was a wave of migrants committed on New Year's Eve, reported by more than 150 women. In Sweden, ten - year - old boys were raped by migrants. Juvenile asylum seeker killed the refugee shelter worker in Sweden. Old Germans were attacked by migrants in Munich. He raped a ten - year - old boy in a spa in a migrant Vienna. Drunk migrants attacked a diner in Győr. On the Greek-Macedonian border, the refugees beat to blood the one who gave them a donation. In his own home, they beat the migrant professor to death in Germany. Migrants could have raped a 12-year-old boy in Germany. A student was raped in Vienna. A Hungarian girl was attacked by migrants with a knife. And what is probably the most horrible and disgusting: a few days ago, he also raped six women in a migrant wheelchair in Sweden. Dear Parliament, Before that, in the last year and a half, the politicians of the left have made statements, saying that they have Bagatellized this huge problem. The politicians on the left tried to make their voters believe that everything that was happening was a fake problem. And while the government and the country protected Europe - and I add our country - they continued to report the country to Brussels. It is worth knowing the names of some of their representatives who want new taxes and fines and voted against those who do not accept the compulsory resettlement quota: Tibor Szanyi, István Ujhelyi; Péter Niedermüller from DK, Csaba Molnár; Tamás Meserics from LMP; Benedek Jávor from Együttt. They're worth remembering. In addition, it is worth looking at what left-wing parties have said, either last year or this year. There is no real problem with immigration in Hungary today; there is no problem; it is a fake problem," said the Socialist Ágnes Kunhalmi. This is what Márta Demeter said: a single decision of 1,200 people is going to the European Court of Justice - the right and the government - and they are launching a real communication campaign. Then, a few months later, László Szakács - also a socialist representative - refutes the same words: there is no compulsory quota, there is a voluntary quota, the Hungarian government is fighting against what is not, and what no one ever wanted, is the mandatory resettlement quota. Bertalan Tóth, the new leader of the group: the Socialist Party is a fan of common solutions, because of common border protection and common asylum procedures. Compared to that, I have to say, they're not doing anything. Ladies and gentlemen of the Left, On December 5, 2004, 12 years ago, you denied our Hungarian brothers and sisters our Hungarian blood. They did not want them to be attached to Hungary, to receive dual citizenship. Now they want to take in strangers. In September 2006, the Autumn speech was subsequently pronounced as a truth speech. Also ten years ago, on 23 October 2006, peaceful celebrations were beaten to death and young people were abducted. They always go up against people. Now it's your chance to stand next to them and do a little damage control. Dear Parliament, Thank you very much for Gábor Vona's suggestion. I think our communication experts will consider it. But it has to be said that a new unit has been created in Hungary, and this new unit has set up many things. He's got the left-wing boycott on top of it. He's got the Better Whispering Boycott on top of it. And he has set aside the idea of people who believe there can be no unity here in Hungary. But we must also say that solidarity must be worn locally, in the Middle East, in Africa and in those countries, where there is great trouble, and especially in Christians. Here, let me quote the thought of Archbishop Balázs Babel, who says that while we listen to the story of the Samaritan, we read it and make it our own; but if the Samaritan goes back to the same place for the fifth time and finds a man beating the brains of a man there, isn't it his duty to report to the authorities that there is a band of robbers? Isn't it your duty to protect the next wanderers from what those bastards are doing? It's the same thing here. However, it is absolutely natural - and thank you very much for the work of all those who are now speaking in the debate on the Fundamental Law, thank you to the authors - that the Christian Democratic People's Party will support you. I would ask the factions either from the left or from the other side to do this: put a little above their previous policies. Thank you so much for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-10-17-38	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, The LMP Group indicated that two speakers presented the group's position. First, I give the floor to Congressman Ákos Hadházy. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2016-10-17-39	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, I went to three clinics last week, none of which had soap in the bathroom or toilet paper. [[György Balla: What does that have to do with anything?]] No wonder they want to talk about something else, and the problem that you could not solve in six years is another problem - which is undoubtedly a problem and crisis - they are trying to cover it up with the refugee crisis. When we talk about immigration, we should and should talk about three things. One is the refugee crisis. A real crisis, a real problem, a lot to think about, and real solutions should be given. The second is the same huge problem that you have brought out of this, and the agitation propaganda campaign, which basically quotes the darkest communist times: they have been able to generate a great deal of fear out of what is really right. The questions raised by the refugee question are justified. But the great fear that has developed in Hungarian society is already your product, your responsibility. I have an acquaintance, a highly qualified musician, who does not dare to go to Europe because he has heard that his life in Europe is already in danger. I have a party member who, when we announced a public event in Brussels, was desperate that we announced this on Facebook, so afraid of terrorists that terrorists would appear there. This is a real thing, and you know a lot of these phenomena. We think that if we talk about something, we talk about laws, then the most important thing right now is not the Fundamental Law, but the law that prevents you from doing it again, the law that prevents the press close to you and the business community from creating a huge fear on state money, of course, out of billions of forints. The bad news is that what you're doing here, this amendment to the Constitution with this fear, it's practically not going to know what to do. I do not believe that one of these people who, by the way, makes a living touring Europe and does not dare to leave, because you have been able to generate such a fear, such a constitutional amendment will bring him to his stomach that he will rest from such a constitutional amendment. How can we think that he will be relieved by the amendment of a constitution that the Prime Minister himself most likely wrote on his desk? At least, as many lawyers as I asked, they all said they were so poor and contain concepts that have no legal relevance. [[11.30]] How can they think that a constitutional amendment that is supposed to be a granite-solid constitution will calm these people down, and practically doesn't even consider its strength to be salt-cake, because it can be modified at any time. This friend of mine might say that if it could be modified now, it would be possible to modify it backwards, if necessary. Who thinks he'll protect anything from anyone? How do you think the amendment of the Constitution protects anyone when you know very well that the Constitution, like a government decision or a much smaller legal act, cannot be above European Union law. You know that very well. We can talk about constitutional law issues here, we can talk about the fact that the core of the Constitution and the constitutional identity may be above European Union law, but you know very well that the amendments that you have made cannot, in practice, be above European Union law and otherwise not stand, harmonise the Constitution with European Union law. It is certain that this constitutional amendment will not solve anything, it will not solve any of the challenges facing Europe, it will not solve any of the challenges facing Hungary, and of course it will not solve it, because it does not want to solve anything from the problem of refugees and asylum seekers. My bad news to those in whom you have caused fear is that it does not even provide a solution to the quota issue, because the proposal before the European Union at this moment is about transferring people and asylum seekers to judging their asylum application, judging their asylum application individually. According to the text of the constitutional amendment, this can be done, and the asylum application can be assessed individually. I think that if we talk about soothing people who are in panic at your will, because a man in panic will think much less, and will think much less of that, that when he goes into the hospital toilet and finds no hand sanitizer, not even soap, not toilet paper, he will not think about getting a hospital infection that could kill him. He's not gonna think about having a government here for six years, and he couldn't figure out how to get toilet paper and soap in the hospital bathrooms. But if we're talking about security issues, because you have beautifully enhanced it, it's not gonna solve that either. We should be thinking, not about the constitutional amendment, but about how the Ministry of Interior could have bought hundreds of thousands of SIM cards in Hungary, and no one noticed that certain circles... How come the bomber from Paris was here and we didn't see it? How could hundreds of people have been at Eastern Station for days, and we don't know who they were, they didn't check, they didn't look at their identities? If there is much talk about Hungary's sovereignty and about Hungarian security today - I don't know, do you know how many soldiers we have? Do you know how many soldiers there are in Hungary? How much? How many do you have? [[Interviews from the Fidesz ranks.]] Say it because they like to talk so much. Hungarian soldier, how many soldiers are there in Hungary? [[Intercoms from Fidesz, among them: Fighter none. This isn't a conversation.]] Who's fit to fight. Tell me because they say so much, they say so much, tell me how many soldiers you have. [[Noise.]] There are 5,000, 5,000 soldiers in Hungary. He's got 5,000 soldiers and about a dozen tanks. Why can't you solve the problem if Hungarian freedom is important to you? At the time when we decided to make a decision on this issue, we decided not to press a button. Two things had to be considered. A party must, of course, look first at the interests of the country, how it decides what is in the interests of the country. On the basis of the country's interest, it is possible to press yes, because it is a completely independent draft law, which solves nothing, but we do not press a button, as this draft law may reduce Hungary's ability to agree on the European Union. There is already concrete evidence of this, as we have learned and voted here last week that the Canadian and European Free Trade Agreement will be passed without further delay. If anything, this really limits Hungarian sovereignty. [[Defiance and interrogations in the ranks of Fidesz, among them: Who are you? Rendezvous? So it wouldn't be the last thing to do to see what we voted for. You're so stupid.]] Please tell me who's stupid... I don't know your name. Say, somebody said I was stupid. [[Noise, public comments from Fidesz. György Balla: But we didn't vote for anything... the president is ringing the bell.]] Tell me your name. I don't know your name. Says you. [[Noise. Critics and information in the Fidesz so.rai, among them: This is not the interrogation room, this is the par.lament!]] I'm asking you to put it on record. [[Noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] Let's put it on record. [[Dr. Szél Bernadett: Are you guys making fun of the speaker?]] Let's ask who said I was stupid and put it on the record. [[György Balla: Let the record show that he's stupid. Noise. The representative turned aside:]] What's her name? What's the name of the one with the glasses?
u2016-10-17-40	Congressman! Dear Parliament, May I have your attention, please? There is no need to disturb the Chief Speaker, but there is a situation in which I have to inform the Member, there is a record-keeping process, and every word is recorded in writing by the Chief Reporter. Please, please continue, Congressman.
u2016-10-17-41	Thank you very much. So György Balla was a congressman who said that I was stupid and that I was... [[Definitely. Interviews from the ranks of Fidesz, among them: tell your father! The president's ringing the bell.]] I don't know you yet, I don't know. I don't even understand you. [[György Balla: This short period of damage. Fidesz ranks of Fidesz.]] So on the basis of the country's considerations, we could vote against it, we will not do it, as it reduces its ability to reconcile interests, its ability to assert interests for Hungary. Then, when we look at the political aspects, we will not vote, we will not press a button, because of two things. One of the things I've been talking about is that this constitutional amendment is nothing but masturbation, a political masturbation on the part of the government. [[Defiance in the ranks of the ruling parties. Dr. Répássy Róbert: That's what you can say, isn't it?]] It doesn't lead anywhere, it's probably good for you, but it doesn't bring any results. On the other hand, we will not press a button, because we trust our voters, we trust our voters, who can understand that much more is needed, much more action is needed; they will understand that we have only been able to collect it in 24 points, we have been able to collect 24 serious points of action needed to protect Europe's external borders, to protect Hungary's external borders, to take into account security aspects, to take humanitarian aspects into account. It's gonna take a lot more than that. You know very well that Hungary cannot handle this problem on its own, and Europe can tackle this problem together. Then if you make a fool of Hungary, you will have no say in this. Thank you very much.
u2016-10-17-42	Thank you. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mrs Bernadett Szél, another lead speaker of the LMP Group. Here you go.
u2016-10-17-43	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, People can sense it exactly, if it's not about them, it's not about their future, it's about some kind of political reasoning and trickery. In people, even if they do not follow the complex political processes, there is a built-in radar device, and there is one thing they can infallibly sense: if behind a political action, a move is not an attitude that serves their interests, but a political self-interest. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. It could be a riddle, but it's not who said that not so long ago. This is about Viktor Orbán, the Prime Minister of Hungary, whom I was forced to quote because, unfortunately, he cannot be here now, he asked for the debate on another event. However, I would like to tell Prime Minister that he is absolutely right. This is exactly how people operate, and the Hungarian people work: they feel that they are being deceived by politicians, and that is exactly what happened in connection with the referendum. The fact is that you failed this referendum, it was invalid, and then you started to amend the Constitution and amend the Fundamental Law. I don't know what word to use, and you don't know it, and once it's called that, it's called that. One word, like a hundred, what you can see is that the government has run out of ideas, the Hungarian government has run out of strength and courage. If you had the courage, you would have been clear of the public consequences of the referendum before the referendum. They didn't do that. They asked riddles about what would happen after the referendum. I respectfully ask you to respond in the debate, be kind enough to remain here, ministers and State Secretarys, or any fidesz country, KDNP, or country, what the public consequences of the referendum would have been if it had been valid. Is it different than it's invalid? How did you put this together in the Fidesz kitchen? [[István Szilárd Németh: Egg scrambled.]] The thing is, because we are now at a time when the Hungarian nation is back from where we started last February. The amendment of the basic law after a failed referendum is a weaker message than if this had been achieved. Why didn't they do the fundamental law amendment - if they thought this was the direction - out of whack? You have a parliamentary background with the huge Fidesz-KDNP fraction, such as few prime ministers in Europe, few prime ministers. The Hungarian people also seem to think about the issue of immigration in the same way. Why did you have to get into all this? For one thing, that in the meantime you do not have to talk about the wage crisis in Hungary, education and health in Hungary have collapsed, and their politicians have been stealing like no one in the last 25 years. [[11.40]] That's the big deal. When we asked you about helicopter politicians, you started lying about LMP tax laws. That's how embarrassed they are. They can't answer our questions. The fact is, they sit here and read quotes from the Bible and everywhere, without answering the questions we ask why you are stealing. That's the question. So from here on out, I think that the referendum had only one purpose, so that the government didn't have to talk about the issues that you don't have answers to. And what shows the pointlessness of all this is that we can be sure that, regardless of the outcome, exactly the same fundamental law amendment would have been initiated if this referendum had passed. But I'm asking you, are you the ones who label us as grumpy? When the initiator of this whole amendment, the Prime Minister of Hungary acknowledged in particular that he would not say what legal consequences the referendum would have? 'Cause that's where we started. From now on, since the Prime Minister of Hungary behaves like this, how can we take anything seriously in this whole story? In addition, the amendment of the Constitution or the amendment of the basic law as an instrument is not suitable for solving the problem that you have undertaken to solve. The Union has a legal order that, if there is a Community competence, the Constitution does not have a priority. There is simply no EU legislation to prevent the constitutions from doing anything. However, we have a Constitutional Court, as do the Germans, for example, so if we are discussing the issue of constitutional identity here, then we must say that we have a Constitutional Court, which if it senses that anything that is an action at EU level does not coincide with the Hungarian Basic Law, it can take the necessary steps. But that's the way it is right now! So I'm gonna ask you again, what is this amendment to today's basic law? It's a legitimate debate - don't get me wrong - about who has the authority on the subject. What is in EU competence and what is in national competence. In this debate, the Possibly Other in Politics voted. We have said that it is part of national sovereignty who we live with. That's the big deal. But we don't have to argue with us, we don't have to argue with the opposition. So fight the battle in Brussels, be as kind as you say. But the thing is, and that's why I have to talk about it, and that's why I said, because I really want to put one thing on the table here: this is the rhetorical operation that is going on here - in public money - and you have already spent 15 billion forints of public money on this whole event, and this has a consequence, and not only in the medium and long term, but also in the short term, which is about reducing the Hungarian interest in the international arena. We are living in an era of global crises, an era of which one of the symptoms is the migration crisis. The fact is that you should work and work to protect Hungarian interests in all areas. If you are sending a message to Brussels and acting in such a way that it is completely unacceptable, you are not acting in the interests of the country, but in the opposite direction. You weaken the Hungarian interest with this behaviour, every poster you put on the street, and write that we should send a message to Brussels, it undermines our medium, long and short-term interests. It's unacceptable what you're doing! In addition, let me add that the Fundamental Law or the Constitution is worth something when it is stable. You started this industry by saying that we would have a granite-solid Fundamental Law. Instead, what are they doing with the Basic Law? According to the LMP, the constitution of Hungary, which was named the Fundamental Law, is not a game. The extent to which the Hungarian Constitution, the Hungarian Fundamental Law, has become the field of political manoeuvre is instructive. We remember that Fidesz adopted this current Fundamental Law when it was the most politically appropriate one for him. And when he couldn't solve a typically simple problem, he went straight to the Fundamental Law. And now, when the government seems to have run out of strength, courage, momentum, they're going to take the Fundamental Law out again. But you know what? Speaking of the Fundamental Law, let's talk about what is missing from the Hungarian Fundamental Law. On the one hand, it must be a basis that the principle of equal pay for equal work must be returned to the Hungarian Constitution. For example, this would help Hungarian people directly and greatly if equal pay was paid for equal work. I, for example, do my job here as a politician, and I know exactly what a deficit there is in women's salaries against men's. Yes, there is a fact that wages are not equal between women and men. When Minister Mihály Varga, who is not here now, started the ministry, he said that this market economy is due to the difference in wages between women and men, even if they do the same work. We have now come to the point that Minister Varga says that this is a serious problem and that Fidesz must work on it. Go ahead, do it, put it in the Constitution, it'll help my women a lot. But restore the organizational guarantees of judicial independence. Restore the powers of the Constitutional Court, for example on tax and budgetary matters. But I want you to do what you have to do to put it in the Fundamental Law. We will go to the trial, we will talk about ensuring that the parties are transparent, and it must be put in the Fundamental Law precisely in order to free Hungarian politics from the pressure of the oligarchs, and party politics can become a real forum for civic participation in this country. Because that's what we're talking about. But social solidarity must be identified as a constitutional baseline. We must also restore the level of protection of social rights under the Constitution. There are the rights of future generations, the right to housing, the right to access natural resources, and this is all lacking in the Fundamental Law. When do they put it in? That's what I'm asking you. We're gonna sit here and talk about this issue for hours, which you've just come up with and put on the table. What does not protect us from the situation in which the country is, the community is not the solution, but it is possible to send pompous and pompous messages to Brussels. That doesn't make any sense. It would make sense what I'm talking about: housing, social rights. It would make sense if they were fighting corruption, it would make sense if we weren't living in a country without consequences. That would make sense. It would make sense for the Prime Minister to go to Brussels and negotiate for our sake and do his job and not come home and try to explain how evil Brussels is. No one's gonna believe it. No one believes in the dictatorship in Brussels. What we do see is what Fidesz is doing out of the country, and we're sick and tired of it. So be kind to understand that the Hungarian people have questions, and the Hungarian government has to answer the questions of the people, in this situation, which they have created here, they will not be able to alibi for long. We're asking you why wages are bad. We were promised order in this country, and there will be family-friendly governance in this country. You have introduced a single-key tax that will take 134 billion forints from the poorest seven-tenths and give it to the richest: 500 billion forints in the Hungarian budget. This perverted redistribution, it was you who did it. It doesn't make any sense, it makes sense for you to secure your electoral camp. This is unacceptable! "You," I listened to the Kossuth radio on the way home, "said that the Balliberal governments had taken 200 billion out of education. Why didn't you add that Fidesz-KDNP has another 250 billion? The Prime Minister went to India and said that full employment was achieved in Hungary. And what is the Hungarian people's wages like? Mr Kósa said in the debate - I would also like to respond to this - that we could leave. Well, there's been a Prime Minister who's spoken like that, and we have to go to Sweden and Berlin and London. Well, Mr Kósa, if you come out of your computer, I will tell you that the Hungarians are leaving, unfortunately more and more. [[Lajos Kósa: When I look at my computer, my ears are not closed.]] That show you're doing here is about not having to talk about it. That I too, when I went to London, saw exactly that hundreds of thousands of Hungarians live out there, and we do not know what is going on with them. Do you take care of the Hungarians who have gone abroad? Because we saw that they made sure they couldn't vote. And that's such a load of crap. And in the whole referendum, this was one of the fundamental problems that [[Lajos Kósa intervenes.]] a distinction was made between Hungarian and Hungarian. And that's totally unacceptable. In addition to taking down wages, destroying education, destroying health care, raising corruption to industrial levels, they made a distinction between Hungarian and Hungarian. [[Lajos Kósa intervenes.]] Why can you vote in one envelope and not vote in the other envelope? Let's all vote in envelopes. But I will tell you why they didn't do it, because they know that if they had allowed it now, they would have succeeded in 2018, and the fact is that then you would have had to face the will of the hundreds of thousands of Hungarians who left this country because they couldn't make a living at home. And I am talking about serious problems that should be discussed in this house, and you may have turned the Hungarian Parliament into a puppet theatre, but we will not, and we will always be here, and we will always tell you our comments, and we will confront you that you will not spend years here alibiing and stealing and cheating and lying! We've had enough of every government in the last 25 years who's fooled voters and can only profit at the expense of each other! We need a complete renewal of Hungarian politics in order not to talk about such a fundamental law amendment for half a day, but, let's say, for one day let's talk about why Hungarian people don't have enough wages. The Possibly Other Politics put it in, put it on the table, put it on the table [[Lajos Kósa: Did you put it in the table?]] the initiative to have a political debate in the Hungarian Parliament on labour shortages and related problems, such as the wage crisis, poor wages. I wonder how many parliamentary groups will support this. Not only did the opposition get it, Fidesz got it and KDNP got it. If the Prime Minister really thinks that Hungary has full employment, then he will face the debate and will personally support this initiative by signing it, because I think that if we can talk about this Fundamental Law one day, then we can also talk about one day that Hungarian people will not have enough wages. Pay's bad! So I would like to ask Mr Kósa Group Leader and Mr Harrach Group Leader to support the initiative of the LMP and, after the Hercehurca of the Fundamental Law Amendment, to talk about how the Hungarian people will have a better wage. One thing I would like to point out is that in the salad law on migration, there was an amendment that you pushed across the Hungarian Parliament. [[11.50]] We didn't vote for it, but you voted for it. And it said that organized and mass migrant workers can be brought to Hungary; when it comes to a strategic partner, these people do not even have to work in a deficit sector. This initiative is about two things. One is that you do not have a clear position on migration. Because they are fighting against the migrants' army, as you say, I do not know what terms have been used here in the last few hours, but they would bring in guest workers from other countries in an organized and mass manner, and here is the other thing that would be suitable for breaking the wages of Hungarian workers. Because if I don't know where people would come from in Mexico, Nepal, we can see that they have already come in from Mexico and are working in Northern Hungary and do what Hungarian people are asking for for less money, then Hungarian workers will give up their wages, they will give up their wage demands, or they will just go nicely and go abroad, just like the others did. [[Noise in the pro-government benches.]] You are preparing for these assassinations against the Hungarian people. This bill from the Ministry of Interior has been passed by you, and it has been accepted. I would like to stress that when it comes to strategic partners, it is not even required that these people work in a deficit sector. So it doesn't matter to you now who works in the Hungarian assembly plants. The one thing is: somehow go to the wiener, but you don't even care if it is Hungarian or not Hungarian. And you, who are pushing such a law through the Hungarian Parliament, are here telling me about things that I can't even quote. But the thing is that it would be good if they turned themselves a little lower and started talking about what is the real problem: that Hungary may have a government that makes a propaganda campaign going down to the darkest agitprop level on migrant issues, while taking a bill package through the Hungarian Parliament that organizes and masses the admission of foreign migrant workers to Hungary. That's what it says. [[Noise and interruptions in the benches of Fidesz.]] Take a look at the enforcement protocols, and then you're in it for good. Answer these questions honestly. If you can't answer that, then I will stick to what I started this speech with. This is all about you being in big trouble, losing your strength, losing your courage, and losing your mind in the interests of the Hungarian people. [[Constant noise and interruptions in the pro-government benches.]] And that's the biggest problem. The biggest problem is that Fidesz-KDNP is just a community of interests. You are no longer a community of values, you have nothing to do with civic values. What we're seeing is that you practically sold your own honor for a bowl of lentils and we're talking in a parliament that's down to this level about issues that won't get the country one-on-one, and you're the ones who're thinking of pocketing another vote or two. This won't take long, gentlemen and ladies.
u2016-10-17-44	Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. Dear Parliament, We now have a speech from Mr Zoltán Balczó, Member of the European Parliament. Before I give the floor, I would like to inform the Member that MEPs have directly applied for speaking time equal to the speaking time for an independent Member, they can use 2.5 minutes. I would also like to inform you that Mr János Volner has informed me that the Jobbik Group will hand over two minutes of the time frame set for the Group to the Member. Congressman, you have a total time frame of 4.5 minutes, and you have the floor.
u2016-10-17-45	Mr President, thank you for the floor. I'd like to give you my personal answer to three questions. The first is: is there an existing threat to the mandatory quota for Hungary? Is the current amendment to the basic law justified and will it be necessary to continue to fight? Yes, mandatory introductions are a real threat. There is a live decision on this, the Council of Ministers adopted it in September 2015. It's on the agenda. Shocking proposals have been made to enforce it; on the Commission's part, the fact that a country that does not accept the required number of migrants has to pay EUR 250 000 per migrant is HUF 75 million. And they betrayed themselves, they said it wasn't a punishment, it was solidarity, because that's how much it costs to prepare a migrant for about five years to find a place in the labour market. On the basis of solidarity, should Hungary be in solidarity with 15 million a year? A country where the minimum wage is below the minimum wage? I don't even talk about retired people. This is completely absurd! Otherwise, we are not talking about 1,200 migrants. On-the-road it is said in the European Parliament that this should be a permanent algorithm for distribution, and at the end of 2015, Vice-President Timmermans said that only this year and a half million migrants arrived. That is why we feel the weight of this. [[Dr. János Latorcai, vice-president of the Parliament, takes the chair.]] Mr Orbán said the other day that he hoped that the European Commission would admit that the issue of compulsory quota cannot be kept on the agenda against the Prime Ministers' decision. Well, unfortunately, that's not the case. It is not true that bureaucrats are opposed to politicians, because politicians made the decision of September 2015 in the Council of Ministers, and at the end of February 2016, the prime ministers confirmed that the implementation of this is mandatory in all its elements, where Viktor Orbán, along with the 27 European leaders, accepted this conclusion. So it's much more serious. The amendment of the Fundamental Law, yes, is justified. We must complement the part of the Fundamental Law in which we have practically accepted the primacy of the law of the European Union with the passages which introduce the concept of a constitutional identity which is very important to us, and we obviously want to leave it in our own constitutional powers. Yeah, but if we accept that, is that the end of the line? Once again, I quote the Prime Minister: "The complex issue is the relationship between national rights and EU legislation. Well, yes, let us not think that this legal argument will be accepted. I see how the invalid referendum was received in the European Parliament. It was used, the socialist leader immediately stated how sober the majority of the Hungarian people were, opposed to this racist government, and referred to the majority because the participation rate did not reach 50 percent. Of course, that's not the case. We know that support is actually there, and Gábor Vona is also right about the fact that the MSZP has been given a political opportunity to criticise this constitutionalization. But here, let me say the argument made by Krisztina Morvai in the European Parliament. Legally speaking, I would not be able to make this amendment if the yeses had been majorityed in participation of more than 50 percent. And that's not what I'm saying. So here we will have to fight further hard on the European scene. And I can promise you that on behalf of Jobbik, we will stand up for this Hungarian interest just as we did on September 2, 2015 [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] at the trial of the situation in Hungary, where left-wingers demanded sanctions, and Fidesz did not attend the meeting. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2016-10-17-46	Thank you very much, Congressman. I would like to welcome my fellow Members. Minister László Trócsányi asked for the floor on behalf of the government. Here you go, Minister.
u2016-10-17-47	Thank you very much. Honourable Congressman, Dear Parliament, Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen. I wish to speak on behalf of the government. The subject is the amendment of the Constitution. When it comes to constitutional amendments, we need to speak with caution, so I would like to respond on my part to what concerns constitutional amendments. There have obviously been a number of other issues, but the Government's presentation concerns the amendment of the Constitution, so I would like to limit myself to that. Allow me to start a little further away. In 2001 I could be an ambassador in Brussels, and I remember when the European Convention in 2003-2004 wanted to draft a document that wanted to implement the characteristics of a European federal state. By the Federation, we would have meant that the contracts would have fixed that Community law precedes Member States' rights, so there is supramation. In addition, he wanted to record symbolic elements and put in place a real constitution, because at that time some people went to the Federation, and they did not want to put Christianity into it as a value and the rest. Let's remember. [[12.00]] However, the Dutch and French people rejected this; they did not want to go towards the Federation, but instead said that the Member States would remain masters of the treaties, so that the Member States have real power. The problem, however, is that, despite the result of the French, German referendum, it is clear that the Member States have the real power, they are the masters of the treaties, as you can see, in the direction that there is a huge debate in Europe today on whether we want a Federation, or whether we remain in favour of the idea of a Member State, a Europe of nations. It should be added that there are different actors here with different interests. Obviously, there are federalists, primarily in those countries, such as Belgium, and there are officials who take them in this direction; and there are definitely such as Hungary, which says that we want to live in a Europe of nations. What's the problem? We rarely change the basic law. For myself, when I took on the role of Minister of Justice, I was of the opinion that we should only touch it if we had to. This was the recording of the terrorist threat. I think it was justified to amend the Fundamental Law. However, we are now facing a situation where there really are intentions in Europe that could affect Hungary's sovereignty and independence. Hungary is an independent country within the meaning of Article B of the Fundamental Law. Of course, this should be read together in Article E, which gives us the opportunity to exercise certain powers together. However, it must be seen that the European Union is not a united European state, so there has not been a country created by a European people like the United States of America. And there is a huge debate in Europe today, namely what is the constitutional core - I can call it that - that we believe that we must preserve and protect it in Europe. That's what our constitutional amendment is all about. I must add that this debate is not new, this debate is present in all countries. Anyone familiar with the decision of the French Constitutional Council of 2004, 2006, where the expression of constitutional identity appears, the decision of the German Constitutional Court in Lisbon in 2009, the decision of the Polish Constitutional Court, the Czech Constitutional Court, the Spanish Constitutional Court and the Italian Constitutional Court, can see the current issue. What's this about? It is clear that European bodies believe that these certain rights of Member States can be withdrawn and that they are virtually free to make their decisions instead. That is why in all countries there is the establishment of a defensive mechanism setting out the powers that they refuse to delegate. This is included in Article 23 (1) of the German Constitution, referring to Article 79, the French Constitution, and I think that the time has come to record certain questions in Hungary as well. This could have been recorded by the Constitutional Court in a decision. The Hungarian Constitutional Court does not yet have a decision to establish a relationship between EU law and the Member States. However, you must see that what we put into the Fundamental Law is not from the devil. This is in line with the European trend that all Member States are developing for themselves. So it's in our best interest to put these in the Constitution. I find the position wrong that Community law always precedes national law. I also think this is definitely wrong because in several countries there is a strong legal position that the national constitution is at the top. Because if it weren't, then we wouldn't need the national constitutions under which there are treaties or EU treaties, each time... - national constitutional courts keep national constitutions as Cerberus. The national constitution is the most important document. Of course, there is a loyal cooperation within the European Union. We must, of course, strive for harmony, but we must still see that the national constitution is the most important law in force. Of course, the Luxembourg court also prefers to avoid this issue. Today, various judicial forums form a modus vivendi that none of them want to record their exact positions. The single decision of the Luxembourg court did not state that the national constitutions are above EU law. You don't want to say it, but if I may say it like that, you're mixing it up a little, you're using such vague terms. If you were to say that Community law was above the national constitution, then France, Germany - and I could list these countries - would say that that is not true. I know that very well, and I can say that in my best opinion. Obviously, the transposition of Community law, the transposition of secondary law, is an obligation. But that's what the French Constitutional Council says, except that if it's an inherent part of the Constitution, it doesn't have to be. The Czech Constitutional Court states that Community law which conflicts with the Czech Constitution cannot be applied in the territory of the Czech Republic. I can give you a ruling from the Czech Constitutional Court. It can be checked, please. So there is a kind of debate in Europe today, but this debate is quite significant now, and it has to be added, because there is a lot of crackling in Europe. All kinds of interests develop, and these interests very easily create a situation where Eastern Central Europe finds itself in the wrong place in this. So I think that this amendment to the Constitution, which lies before us in Parliament, will give us a proper grip. I'm not saying we won't have a fight. Of course, we may have a debate, but it is our job to argue in this debate. So if we look at the constitutional documents that are in another country, we collect the Constitutional Court decisions one by one, which, by the way, are in the Ministry of Justice, we add the literature, we don't underestimate who says what, I think we have arguments, we have serious arguments that are convincing. I think that on this basis we have the opportunity to defend the position of the Hungarian government. What's this about? Everyone can see that there's an ultra-viral procedure. The ultra-vires procedure means that it does not fall within the competence of the Union, but the Union makes decisions. It's one of the dangers. The biggest danger is ultravires, and we say stealth laws. The other is when legislation violates national identity. Please don't make us think someone doesn't want to do this. There's no such thing! Each country has a rightful self-defense to find protection against such acts. Let's take a look at our quota lawsuit, please. Our quota lawsuit is an ectant example of what happened to us. Hungary in the morning is a beneficiary country, a country subject to an obligation in the evening. What do you mean, we can only think of A or B? Everyone knows what happened in Hungary in 2005. There was no C-solution at all in the EU to exempt Hungary from this - when what happens in Europe? There really was a kind of migration. In this case, Hungary was placed, in the morning he was a beneficiary, and he was obliged to attend the evening. I'm asking you, is this a proper procedure? And I could tell you more about the mistakes that came out of this, and I could tell you that out of 160,000 people, they couldn't even move 6,000 people, and they're all statistics. We don't know how many of these 6,000 relocated people actually live there. 22 people were transferred to Lithuania, and 21 were not there in two days. How effective is this system? In effect, how good was the legal basis for saying that provisional measures would be taken? I know what a temporary measure means. I know it when I was young. The Soviet troops were also temporarily in Hungary. The Turks were temporarily in Hungary for 150 years. The interim measure doesn't mean I'm relocating someone, and it's going to stay there in the long run, it's not temporary, please. Let's forget about these categories. The other thing I would like to say on this point is that, according to previous case law, there has been a period of six months, financial assistance, solidarity, but there have been no compulsory group relocations. These are legally unacceptable concepts. Why is that? Human rights, too. Because I can imagine, I used to say, milk quotas and all kinds of quotas, but I can't imagine a human quota. And the other thing I would like to say here is that whoever is being relocated against his will can be called a group evacuation. Group resettlement is prohibited in Hungary. In fact, words about emigration and resettlement are all very bad words in Hungarian history and European history. Some countries have relocated peoples from one place to another. I think that we want to live in a Europe where such things cannot happen. We are indisputably dealing with European issues, we need to find solutions, but we cannot find solutions with failed means. The proposal submitted by the Hungarian Government, which concerns the constitutional amendment, is clear. It is true that the formulation of constitutional identity is a new thing that can be called constitutional identity, and which is almost impossible to list taxatically, because our language belongs here. There are others, our culture belongs here, which is ours, which belongs to our nation. These, please, must be preserved. If someone looks at the decision of the German Constitutional Court, there is a very serious list of what they hold as part of the constitutional identity. This is what we want to add to Article E, that we also want to define the limitations of the exercise of powers, which we say we have not given over this competence, and in this it is not possible to exercise jurisdiction to anyone else. This is related to Article B of the Fundamental Law, which states that Hungary is an independent and democratic rule of law. It is also clear that it is obviously the duty of some public body to protect our national identity, our constitutional identity. I can't argue with you. We can have our fights. But why are we afraid of arguing? Why are we saying we've already failed at this thing? I'm not standing that way, please, to this. [[12.10]] The other thing I'd like to say is, yes, we have an organ, the Constitutional Court. This is an extremely important body, because it is a protector of our constitutional national identity. In contrast to Ultra vires procedures, legislation which violates our national identity must, where appropriate, be declared not to apply a given Community law. Of course, it's an emergency bell. The alarm bell is only necessary when there's a situation like this. But wait a minute, if something like this happens in the Constitutional Court of another country, what are we afraid of? ! Why is it that we underestimate ourselves and say that with these tools we do not achieve results? Please, these are very serious sentences in the Constitution. These are the results that can be achieved. In any case, it is necessary to see that the EU does not want to live up to the conflict in such matters, because too many people say the same thing that we say, whether in practice at the level of national constitutional courts or in the literature; it is dangerous to open a debate in this. And you're the fourth. Article 2 (2) of the Treaty states that the Union respects the equality of the Member States before the Treaties, the identity of the nation. The Union itself is bound by this, and we define our own national identity. For a Frenchman, it's laicity. It is part of its national identity, and do you think that if there were to be legislation in Europe that would abolish the rule of law, can we imagine that France would accept the entry into force of a legislation in breach of a laid down law, the application of Community law? No way. In the same way, I can refer to the protection of the French language, the idea of equality, brotherhood and freedom. The fundamental task of each country in respect of fundamental rights is to take account of the national constitution. We have a hunch. Our presumption is that European Community law complies with the rights and obligations, rights and freedoms enshrined in the national constitution, but this is only a presumption, a rebuttable presumption. So if we see that there is a rebuttable presumption, then we can act before the Constitutional Court. Ladies and Gentlemen, Honourable Members, On behalf of the Government, I can say that this proposal we have tabled is a very useful proposal. It's not a beauty patch. If someone thinks it's a beauty patch that's not suitable for anything, I have to say that I think they're wrong. Let us take a look at the national constitutions in force. I think it's XIV. 1st article, which tells me how to live in Hungary on the basis of individual decisions taken by the Hungarian authorities, I think it is the most important sentence. The most important sentence is because who can accept that an agency established abroad decides where who will live? I have never seen or wish to see this, because I think that a Member State has fundamental rights, fundamental tasks that it must perform, both from a national security point of view and from another point of view. I think that this proposal, which the government is putting before Parliament, is in line with everything we want to achieve. Obviously, I do not dispute that interest in Europe will observe the seventh amendment of the Hungarian Constitution. There will be people who will say that what we do is unacceptable. This is natural, obviously there is freedom of expression; and a lot of people will say that the Hungarians were brave, that they put it in their constitution, and so it is right. There may be a debate in Europe. I think that if the debate, the dialogue, is in a correct process, then we can say our position, we have reference foundations, we should not be afraid of them, but in these battles, if there is one, we must step in and protect our positions. Mr President, Dear Parliament, On behalf of the Government, I would like to say that we are, of course, open to amendments. It's a serious matter, and, ergo, everything has to be considered. Whoever the amendment is from will be examined by the government, the Ministry of Justice will give particular weight to consider each proposal. We expect everyone, including those who are not in this room, who think they do not want to participate in this work, yet we are open to it, because it is a matter of the country. Whether this referendum was correct or not: in my view it was very right, regardless of whether only 3 million 300 thousand people said yes, but it is the people who give a mandate. A hard mandate was the yes of 3 million 300,000 people. After a referendum, to go there, that 3 million 300 thousand people said, and so we did the constitution, I think it's far stronger than just making a simple constitutional amendment - sorry for the expression - in a pact. It's a lot more powerful than that. So I do not think that this referendum was unnecessary. Indeed, 51 percent were not there, so the referendum was invalid in the legal sense, and the referendum was not invalid in political terms. In political terms, the government has been given a strong mandate to present this proposal. I trust that the opposition parties will give their support, improve and enrich the current proposal with their proposals, and on this basis the House will accept the seventh amendment of the Fundamental Law. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-10-17-48	Thank you very much, Minister. I would like to inform my fellow Members that the duration of the Minister's speech will be included in the time frame and amended accordingly. Now the general debate will be adjourned, continued and closed after the hour for immediate questions and answers. At 12:30, we will continue our work with the interpellations, and I will take a break. We'll start the interpellation at 12:30. Thank you. (Recess: 12.17 - 12.33) President: Dr. János LatorcaiCreater: László Földi)
u2016-10-17-49	Ladies and gentlemen, I want us to be able to continue our work, but to do so, we need you to take your seats, check that your voting cards have been properly placed in the voting machine. It's 12:33, and we're moving to interpellation, questions, immediate questions and answers. Dear Parliament, Ildikó Bangóné Borbély, representative of the MSZP - my fellow Members, take their seats, and let the pro-government representatives take their seats. - he's submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Human Resources: how long will the government of party barons continue to cripple people? Or when will the government fight poverty and not the poor? It's an address. Congresswoman Ildikó Bangóné Borbély has the floor. Here you go, Congresswoman.
u2016-10-17-50	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, Today is the World Day against Poverty. Unfortunately, in Hungary, the government can only demonstrate for a long time how to instigate social groups that have been broken down in different ways, how to make the middle class poorer, and how to bring the poor to the brink of hunger. Or how to reduce the number of people living in poverty or underprivileged children through statistical methodological adjustments, how to eliminate basic social assistance. In the last six years, the state has started to withdraw significantly from the welfare state model, which is barely increasing poverty, whatever the numbers show. Even when it comes to budgets that are inconvenient and need to be amended, it seems that every year the government spends less on social benefits and support for the poor. More than a hundred billion have been drawn from some areas of social policy by the government. Mr Secretary, you know that the situation is worse than in the post-crisis years or even in 2010. The figure showing the depth of poverty is still worse than before the economic crisis. The rate of poverty in the workforce is nearly twice as high as it was six years ago; we are talking about workers' poverty here. If we look at poverty rates according to school education, we see that even graduates have more than double the poverty rate than in 2010. The proportion of people living in poverty is 35 percent higher than those with low school education. We remember, Mr. Secretary, a year and a half ago, you said that community service instead of poverty offers decent poverty - the public wage that you reduced by 20 percent in 2011. They have the romantic urge, as if there were levels of poverty in Hungary that would be acceptable or even proud to bear. You should know what poverty is. Party barons, Ibizan partyers are not all public figures who know Hungarian society deeply, and surely see many poor people from the windows of luxury yachts and luxury hotels. Since 2010, the government has taken countless cruel measures against the poor by reducing and eliminating aid. Eventually, even the minimum of living was stopped, so of course this is the purest. The government has given up millions of people, all they care about is making it better for friends and relatives. This government will have a historical responsibility not only to incite hatred against each other, but also to oppress Hungarian society. Here's another piece of data, Mr. Secretary. According to the latest OECD report, today there are more than 288 thousand young people between the ages of 15-29 who do not work, study and are not in any care system in our country. When are you going to deal with the poor, Mr. Secretary? I'm looking forward to your reply.
u2016-10-17-51	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. The answer will be given by Secretary of State Bence Rétvári. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2016-10-17-52	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Dear House, As we have talked about here this morning, over 600 thousand more people have worked in the last six years than before, this means that the number of people who are exposed to poverty is also falling, because it is the world of work, employment and wages that can really help those who have faced poverty before. At the same time, it is clear that the Hungarian Socialist Party has a completely different social image than Fidesz-KDNP: we want to support a future based on work, family formation for those who are our partners in this and imagine their own individual vision, while the Socialist Party is interested in a broad range of aid groups. Since the mid-1990s, this was the basis for its policy of power: to have as many people as possible on the frontier of poverty who live only on aid, to be able to be lured to the ballot box during the elections, and to maintain the power of the left. This was your policy of power, which was still functioning during Gyula Horn's time, but has become less and less functioning since then, which is why you are interested in making the aid layer as broad as possible. On the other hand, we, on the part of Fidesz-KDNP, have been talking about people in a difficult situation, whether they have changed their ability to work or others, have tried to offer jobs to everyone, and we have also tried to increase social benefits and family benefits to such an extent as to encourage people to work so that everyone can feel that if they do work, if they go to work by 8:00 a.m. and get up early in the morning, they will live better than if they are waiting for benefits. Therefore, with the very large increase in the number of people active - 600 thousand plus - the MSZP obviously feels that his electoral camp is shrinking, as these people could have a better future in the operation of Fidesz-KDNP. I could give you a lot of numbers, but let me just quote a few for you. In the last six years, the proportion of those who are in the most difficult situation is called in many places because they live in extreme poverty, so according to various social indicators their situation is extremely difficult and they need external assistance, their number has decreased by 170 thousand, which means that the proportion of people living in deep poverty has decreased by 36 percent and more than one third. Of course, some need to be helped, but such a positive shift is rarely seen. You have only put in one number, Madam honourable Member, on youth unemployment, but you have failed to say that the figure of around 25 percent that was youth unemployment in 2010 has now fallen to less than 12 percent, so it has fallen to less than half. Of course, you can give me an absolute number now, but look at the fact that in your time the number of unemployed has increased by 250,000, and now youth unemployment has been reduced as well as other unemployment, and young people have more opportunities at home. In 2010, hundreds of thousands of people suffered from foreign exchange loans, the cost of the overhead rose to enormous heights, and people also accumulated billions, ten billion, and hundreds of billions of backlogs, who were in a difficult position and had difficulty getting to work. Compared to this, we have managed to resolve the issue of foreign exchange credit by way of end-payment, exchange rate barrier, National Asset Manager, and we have managed to manage it, and, moreover, people's salaries are finally climbing up. For those who have children, the cost of raising children is much lower, since, on the one hand, family-type taxation leaves more money with us and, on the other hand, by increasing the resources of free children's meals by two and a half times, the cost of extending the free textbook year-on-year is reduced. [[12.40]] And in the fact that the socialists cannot interpret the meaning of the honourable word precisely, there is nothing new and surprising for us here in Parliament. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-10-17-53	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I ask Mrs Ildikó Bangóné Borbély if she will accept the State Secretary's reply. Here you go.
u2016-10-17-54	I don't accept it, Mr. President. Secretary of State, last week your Minister, Minister Balog, said the following: this government as a body is particularly puritanical. Well, I've seen what that word means. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: Better late than never.]] Please respond, on a given occasion, to what is typical of this government: always an honest, luxurious, modest living, strict moral, simple man. Well, I didn't find a sign that I could put on you guys. There's no such thing. There's no such thing. And who dares to say that Puritan, when today there are 10 ministers, 56 State Secretary, 103 Deputy State Secretary, 60 ministerial commissioners, 16 government commissioners, 13 prime minister commissioners and 5 prime minister commissioners in Hungary. What's with the Puritan government? ! And this is how they steal money from the country? Well, I'm sorry, that's an answer you can't accept. Thank you, Mr. President.
u2016-10-17-55	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, Congresswoman did not accept the State Secretary's reply, so I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it will be accepted. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the State Secretary's reply by 108 votes in favour, 30 votes against and no abstentions. Dear Parliament, Congressman Márton Gyöngyösi, Jobbik's representative, submitted an interpellation to the Minister of National Economy:, How is a series of government measures to help immigration and settlement in Hungary and employment compatible with the high-priced government campaign to oppose multiculturalism and immigration? It's an address. Congressman Márton Gyöngyösi has the floor. Here you go, Congressman.
u2016-10-17-56	Thank you. Mr President, Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, Although in recent months the government has rightly recognised the dangers inherent in multiculturalism and immigration and launched a campaign to raise awareness of these risks, it seems that it is secretly planning a mass introduction to cover up its own economic failure temporarily. While the government media is loud about economic success, rising GDP and reducing unemployment, there is no mention of the price of tax incentives, subsidies and the ridiculous wage level and vulnerability of the Hungarian workforce to these indicators for foreign companies. However, we remember Prime Minister Viktor Orbán's words in Saudi Arabia in March 2014, according to which the advantage of the Hungarian workforce is that it is well-trained, but cheap, and the labour code is flexible and beneficial to the employer. It is clear that the government has condemned Hungarians to slave labor for appearances, while it does not want to see the harmful nature of real trends, nor that 500 thousand well-trained Hungarian workers have already given their opinion on your policy by leaving abroad, leaving a gaping demographic gap and a dozen missing jobs. However, the government does not seem to want to wake up from the world of cosmetic statistics, and will do anything to avoid facing reality. To this end, it is even willing to attempt to introduce citizens from neighbouring countries in the face of fierce opposition to migration from the South. In recent months, a series of measures have been taken to help citizens of neighbouring countries settle in Hungary, and even to qualify for CSOK to help Hungarian families. Since the legislative changes, citizens of neighbouring non-EU countries have enjoyed quasi-EU rights, they do not need a work permit in deficit trades, and the time for the necessary administration has been significantly shortened. In fact, they can now be employed as civil servants. All these legislative changes took place almost secretly. And while the government was threatening immigrants, he recruited state-sponsored immigrants. For example, in the war-torn Ukraine he financed Hungarian language courses and organized Hungarian job fairs. In the long run, letting our own citizens go, driving away and inviting strangers instead is a policy that is not leading anywhere, leading to the loss of our culture and our national identity. Is the illusion of economic success even more important than the survival of the Hungarian nation? Mr. Secretary. When do you want to offer real solutions to the problems of the Hungarian economy based on the real interests of the Hungarian people? When are you going to face the fact that 500,000 people have left the country in your policy and cannot be replaced by immigration, either from the south or from the east? I'm looking forward to your reply. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2016-10-17-57	Thank you very much, Congressman. The answer to the interpellation question raised will be Mr Péter Cseresnyés State Secretary. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2016-10-17-58	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, I would like to ask you, after your speech, that this issue, which is important for all of us, should be expressed with reasonable objectivity and responsibility. There are no cosmetic statistics, the data are public, available to everyone. However, the available statistical data does not support your excessive concern. I would therefore like to tell you that in the 2014 research report of the HCSO, there are some 350 thousand Hungarians living in the world, who have left Hungary temporarily and for a longer and shorter period since the change of regime. Not since 2010, as you claim, but since 1989. This has nothing to do with current government policy. The recovery of international mobility is clearly linked to the change of system and our accession to the European Union. Of these permanent residents, some 100,000 Hungarian citizens work in foreign establishments every month, who live in Hungary as a way of life. They typically do seasonal work in other Member States of the Union. I would like to inform you that a recently published IMF report has found that over the last 25 years, a population of workers has left Europe's Central, Eastern and South-East regions in the order of 10 million workers to work. In particular, three countries have been identified where the migration balance remained positive, namely the Czech Republic, Slovenia and Hungary. I do not think that the IMF has put the data in favour of Hungary. This shows that the international migration of labour is not a specific Hungarian phenomenon, but a worldwide process. There is a significant movement of labour among the most developed countries, for example from Europe to America. I would like to point out that there are also significant numbers of workers from the most advanced European countries, for example, going to America. I would like to say again that Hungary's migration from the region has been the lowest rate in the last decade, while it has been said several times between the walls of the House that 10 percent of people from Romania have gone, in Poland there was a migration rate of around 6 per cent, i.e. the proportion of those leaving their country to the working age population was high, and in the meantime we had two to three per cent. [[Intercom from Jobbik: Everything is relative.]] [[12.50]] According to the latest data from KSH, annual movement has become nearly null over the past year, so its dynamics have decreased significantly. We have said this several times, and I have told you personally within the walls of this House. In the case of Hungary - and at the time also about wages, as he said about it, let me say a few words about it - a dynamic wage catch-up process has started: from 2010 to 2015, real wages have increased by 15.4 percent nationwide, and the real value and purchasing value of wages have increased by 7.4 percent in the first seven months of this year. In addition, it has to be said that Hungary is also experiencing a very dynamic increase in employment, and that is why it has a strange idea of foreign workers, because there are fewer and fewer foreign third countries working in Hungary, only 5 thousand work permits were issued last year, while the quota was 59 thousand. You cannot be serious, Mr President, that 5,000 foreign workers are causing tension on the Hungarian labour market, where nearly 4.4 million people are now working. I must stress strongly that the government's intention is clear: we want to solve the labour problems of businesses not with foreigners, but with basically Hungarian workers. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2016-10-17-59	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I ask Congressman Márton Gyöngyösi if he will accept the State Secretary's reply. Here you go.
u2016-10-17-60	Mr Secretary of State talked about many things, except what I asked you about, that the new legislative environment creating a category for the neighbouring country intends to relocate cheap labour to Hungary from Ukraine. Secretary of State, your response has convinced me perfectly that the economic policy of the Orbán government is no different from the faulty neoliberal economic policy followed here by successive governments for the past 26 years. [[Agnes Kunhalmi: This is worse.]] Three times there has been an Orbán government in the last 26 years, you have won two-thirds of the elections, and you have not changed the paradigm in the field of economic policy, but have continued this misguided policy, which is about driving away intelligent and willing people from this country with declining wages. [[Intercoms from Jobbik's ranks, among them: That's right! Shame!]] And they'd put people here from the outside. Shame on you! [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2016-10-17-61	Dear Parliament, Congressman did not accept the State Secretary's reply, so I respectfully ask the Parliament whether it accepts it. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the State Secretary's reply by 106 votes in favour, 30 against and without abstention. Dear Parliament, Mrs Sallai R. Benedek and István Ikotity, representatives of the LMP, as well as Mrs Erzsébet Schmuck, head of the LMP faction, have submitted an interpellation to the Minister of National Economy: why is Andy Vajna's wealth more important than anything else? It's an address. The word belongs to Ms. Erzsébet Schmuck. Here you go.
u2016-10-17-62	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, We know from the previous response to the LMP by Mr Tállai Secretary of State that there are nearly 150,000 pathological addicts in Hungary, but 700-800 thousand people have reported the problem with their gambling activities. The data is rather frightening, conservatively estimated, that the lives of tens of thousands of gambling families are bitter, ruining, the tragedies are common, yet we do not see that the Fidesz-KDNP government is dealing with this serious social problem in substance. The actions of the completed Player Protection Regulation have been fading, the only tangible help is the game protection green number, which has not been able to reach a visible location in the lotteries for information. Calling the number will not give live, immediate help to the players, only an automatic will report. Even though the possibility of self-limiting statements was introduced, Mr Tállai's reply to us also revealed that only 37 people were introduced by the tax authority this year. There was also no requirement for a nonstop presence of Gambling Control in the arcades, providing immediate assistance and checking the cleanliness of the games. They also promised to use 3 percent of the gaming tax of gambling casinos for charity purposes, not that this 180-200 million HUF would be a serious help to these hundreds of thousands of people. Even if you look at the serious addicts, they only get 1,200 forints. But even though it was promised a year ago, we have not seen the concrete measures. The question is, what did they spend this money on? Which organisations received the aid? How has the social care system been developed? How do they help these people? What do the data show in this regard? You don't help toy addicts because they're the ones who help the Andy Vajnas get rich? It is estimated that this year, up to 1.2 million people will be in the casinos, who will leave 180 billion forints in the arcades by losing their money, yet Andy Vajna will only pay a fraction of this amount, a few billion forints as a toy tax. In addition, Andy Vajna pays tribute, instead of online cash registers, videos from the arcade control money movements, which is amazing nonsense. Of course, they have now modified the legislation in relation to online casinoing so that Andy Vajna can continue to win. Secretary of State, why is Andy Vajna getting rich more important than hundreds of thousands of addicts and his family? Why is the Hungarian state only helping buddies who are ibserving, helicoptering, casinors? Thank you in advance for your reply.
u2016-10-17-63	Thank you very much, Madam Group leader. The answer to this question will be from Mr András Tállai, State Secretary. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2016-10-17-64	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and In contrast to your claim, I can say that 2016 was of paramount importance for the development of the domestic gaming protection system, since from 1 January, a player protection system for the entire gambling sector, building on the best player protection practices in the European Union countries, was introduced in Hungary. Now, whatever anyone says, that's true, because in the last 20 years there has been no regulation in this regard, it has been entrusted with whether a player is taking a self-limiting step for himself or whether civil society organisations are volunteering to help him eliminate or alleviate his gambling addiction. The rules of the responsible game management system are set out in a 329/2015. a government decree was issued in November 2015. So it is not true for you to claim that the only tangible help is the introduction of a game protection green number. That Regulation sets out in detail the rules for the increased protection of vulnerable persons and the use of self-limiting, self-exclusive measures for non-vulnerable players, as well as other playful protection measures applied by the organizer. There are basically two main groups. The first group is a longer period of 1-5 years of entry related to the central player protection register and covering all games casino, card room and online organizer, i.e. a limit of 1-5 years, i.e. completely excluding the possibility of playing. While the other group includes these rules at the player level, i.e. the tools provided by the organizer to its own players. The central player protection register is managed by the National Tax and Customs Office. This register includes players who, on their own initiative, and with the support and encouragement of their families and their immediate environment, made a declaration that they were not allowed to enter gambling casinos and card rooms and sent it to the National Tax and Customs Office. In addition, the central register includes persons under the care of persons whose capacity to act was restricted by the court on the grounds of pathological gambling or other causes, as indicated by their families, their immediate environment. [[13.00]] With the central player protection register, therefore, honourable Member, we are protecting the players and their families affected by pathological gambling and their immediate environment. On the basis of data uploading started on 1 January 2016, nearly 1900 persons are already included in the Central Register. I respectfully inform the congresswoman that the organizers of the game also carry out various self-limiting activities and make decisions. For example, Gambling Ltd. The five-year self-limiting declaration introduced in its non-traditional online games from 1 January 2016 has been made by almost 800 people, and almost 2 000 people have already lived with the possibility of one-day self-exclamation. What I can tell you is that the accusations that the government is accused of doing nothing or at least not being effective in this area are not true. I believe that the Hungarian government has established a European level system of measures to protect players. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] Thank you very much.
u2016-10-17-65	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I ask Ms. Erzsébet Schmuck to accept the State Secretary's answer. Here you go.
u2016-10-17-66	No, I don't accept the answer. Secretary of State, the government has also promised to use 3 percent of the gaming tax on gambling casinos for charity purposes from this year. You didn't answer this question about where this money was, how it was spent, why we can't see the improvements. We also see that there are serious shortcomings in this Player Protection Regulation, which you have spoken only positively about. What we see is that it's not enough to get a green number on the phone, because that doesn't mean that people can get a live customer service for 0-24 hours. If you want help, you should not talk to vending machines, but to a specialist on the other end of the phone. This is not possible now, and we also do not consider the legal institution of self-exclusion sufficient.
u2016-10-17-67	Thank you very much, Madam Group leader. Dear Parliament, She did not accept the State Secretary's reply, so I ask the Honourable Parliament whether she accepts it. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the State Secretary's reply by 108 votes in favour, 29 against and without abstention. Dear Parliament, Congressman Vas Imre, representative of Fidesz, has submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Justice: the possibility of putting an actual life sentence in jeopardy? It's an address. Congressman Vas Imre has the floor. Here you go, Congressman.
u2016-10-17-68	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Hungary was condemned last week by the European Court of Human Rights, because the judges believe that the case of prisoners will be reviewed in Hungary after too long, because in the case of those sentenced to actual life imprisonment, it is possible to review the sentence as soon as 40 years have been completed. The international court would reduce this period to 25 years. The court also held that the Hungarian legislation is an inhumane, degrading treatment because it does not grant the sentenced person the right to hope, to review the judgment, and therefore violates the provisions of Article 3 of the European Convention on Human Rights. According to the current legislation, after 40 years, we are obliged to proceed with the pardon procedure, which we introduced last year precisely because in 2014 the Strasbourg court condemned Hungary for the actual life sentence. The pardon procedure is not intended for final release, but only for conditional release, which means that in the event of a serious crime committed during the period of conditional leave, you must immediately serve the remainder of the sentence. Dear Secretary of State, In 2010, the Parliament introduced restrictive measures, including the three strikes law, which aimed at eliminating irresponsible and harmful criminal policy. In fact, the policy of the socialists is a very good example of the consolidation of the judicial and law enforcement wallet. They tried to deal with its consequences, but they failed. Let us consider the murders against the Roma, not to mention the fact that those responsible for the socialist-liberal criminal policy line were not in a hurry to be held accountable. Remember the brutal destruction of the peaceful commemoration of Fidesz on 23 October 2006. The European Court of Human Rights may be disturbed by a consistent criminal policy, so in Brussels the person who instigated the mass murderers in Paris could escape because of his human rights, he could not be searched at night. No wonder the Belgian legislation has also been amended. On this basis, I respectfully ask the Secretary of State whether there is a danger that the actual life sentence may be put in jeopardy. Why do you consider it necessary to maintain that institution? I look forward to your reply, Secretary of State. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-10-17-69	Thank you very much, Congressman. Mr Pál Völner, State Secretary, will answer your question. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2016-10-17-70	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, Since 2011, there have been ongoing attacks by the European institutions on Hungary due to actual life imprisonment, but the government has successfully defended the most serious punishment and will continue to protect it. I would like to stress that the actual life sentence will be imposed only against the perpetrators of the most serious crimes of high material gravity. At present, this punishment has been imposed largely on those sentenced to life imprisonment due to multiple manslaughter, manslaughter under the age of 14, or manslaughter committed with extreme cruelty. There is no doubt that the perpetrators of such crimes are particularly dangerous to society, and in order to achieve the purpose of the punishment, i.e. to prevent or not to commit any similar serious crime, it may be necessary to separate them from the normal part of society to the length of life. In addition to the specific prevention of actual life imprisonment, it can also be an effective tool for general prevention. There will always be convicts who will bring their case before the European Court of Human Rights. That's your right. The government is prepared for that. However, the government will defend the actual imprisonment of life, and it will not allow cruel murderers who have killed children or old, defenseless people, innocent victims, to be released in such a way that they are still a threat to society. I would point out that the European Court of Human Rights has previously stated in the case of Hungary versus Hungary that the Member States have the right to impose a life sentence, which in itself does not conflict with Article 3 of the European Convention on Human Rights prohibiting torture and humiliating, inhuman treatment or punishment. In the Hungarian versus Hungary judgment, the court challenged only the lack of a review system. At the time, following the decision in Strasbourg, the legislator also took action, and the Parliament adopted the new regulation in 2014 on the basis of which, on the basis of the proposal of the Minister of Justice, in the case of those sentenced to actual life imprisonment, it is compulsory to proceed with the procedure of grace after 40 years, as the Member mentioned. Thus, the prisoner is not deprived of the hope of freedom, he is assured of the possibility of parole. In the design of the legislation, the legislator took into account that, in the case of Törcöly v Hungary, the court considered the determination of the earliest possible date for granting conditional leave to be acceptable for 40 years. I would like to point out that the Strasbourg Court does not now make excuses against the legal institution of effective imprisonment, but makes certain parts of the regulation an object of objection. The court ruling does not contain any requirement or imposition that would require the termination of a life sentence or the release of any of those sentenced to such a sentence. It can therefore be said that, as it stands, the actual life sentence is not in danger. The decision of the European Court of Human Rights on the matter referred to in the Member's interpellation is not final, and experts from the Ministry of Justice are already working on the necessary steps to bring the case to the Grand Chamber of Justice. [[13.10]] I would like to mention that in 2011, the government asked voters in a national consultation, where 920 thousand questionnaires returned revealed that 90 percent of respondents, i.e. more than 825,000 people, were in favour of the actual life sentence. Thank you. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2016-10-17-71	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I ask Congressman Vas Imre if he will accept the Secretary of State's answer. Here you go.
u2016-10-17-72	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. The Secretary of State's reply is accepted. I also consider it important that the actual life sentence be maintained, as the Secretary of State said, this was imposed in the case of classified cases of homicide in the courts or in the case of acts of terrorism. Obviously, the possibility of a review must be granted, but the review must be such as not to release a person who is still a threat to society. Therefore, through the Secretary of State, I am asking the Government to do everything possible to maintain the actual life sentence. Obviously, according to the verdict, if necessary, we will amend the law in such a way that the actual life sentence can be maintained. Thank you for listening. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2016-10-17-73	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, The congressman accepted the Secretary of State's answer. Ladies and gentlemen, Congresswoman Márta Demeter, representative of the MSZP, has submitted an interpellation to the Minister of the Interior:. Why is the Ministry of Home Affairs refusing to assist police and national security workers who have been injured by the bankruptcy of the Honvéd Health Bank? It's an address. Congresswoman Márta Demeter has the floor. Here you go, Congresswoman.
u2016-10-17-74	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Secretary. For more than a year and a half now, more than 27,000 police, law enforcement workers, soldiers, defense workers and national security workers have lost their health savings with the bankruptcy of the Buda-Cash Broker House. They didn't stock exchanges, but put aside this savings from their paid wages for health preservation purposes. The government has done nothing in comparison to this in the last year and a half to get their compensation started, they have not given them any help, they have only and only sought excuses instead of helping people who guarantee the country's safety by risking their lives every day. In this case, I have submitted many questions, interpellations and submissions, and we have submitted them to the Parliament. Compared to that, they kept making excuses. Yet I say that the questions made sense, because the Information Office started paying compensation in the summer. This shows that the legal form is given, that the situation is resolved. While the Prime Minister's Office has started the compensation, the Ministry of Defence is still searching for legal opportunities and alternatives, but at least it promises to the stock. The Ministry of Interior, Mr State Secretary, has not even made a promise to this day, nor is it willing to address this issue. They don't do anything to help the stock. Last time, in the debate of a law on the matter, you said:. I would like to make it clear that the Honvéd Health Bank operates on a market principle, an association that provides services that complement social security benefits, created in the spirit of volunteering, independence and reciprocity. In this regard, we have responded several times in Parliament. I have to say, Mr. Secretary, it's an excuse, it's just blah, blah, what you're doing. There can be no question that when the personnel of the Ministry of Interior, the police, law enforcement workers, national security workers are in a situation where their savings for the purpose of health preservation disappear in the context of a scandal, there can be no question that they will be compensated. Like in command, I think it would be a dog's duty to the Ministry of the Interior. I would like to add that volunteering means that this is highly questionable in the national security services, so we cannot talk about volunteering there, which is why the Ministry has a duty to think about and implement compensation as soon as possible. They have this opportunity, we know that the Ministry of Defense is also considering how this can be resolved. I want you to act now. So I call on the Ministry of Home Affairs to immediately review their position and begin the compensation of the law enforcement workers and national security workers involved.
u2016-10-17-75	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. The reply to the interpellation question of the Member will be given by Secretary of State Károly Kontra. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2016-10-17-76	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Just like Hst and Hjt. I responded to the comments made at the plenary session last Wednesday, and I can now confirm that the Honvéd Health Fund is a market-based association providing social security benefits in the spirit of volunteering, independence and reciprocity. Only the bodies specified in the fund's statutes shall be entitled to take the basic decisions concerning the cashier. The Ministry of Interior could not and cannot influence the management decision of the treasury, and the Ministry does not keep a register of its members. The Ministry of the Interior has no authority with regard to the administrative procedures related to the Buda-Cash Broker House and the BRB Buda Regional Bank. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Given the social sensitivity of the case, the Ministry of Interior is therefore waiting for the results of the Ministry of Defence in terms of compensation for members, as the highest number of members applied there. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and The truth also includes the fact that the underlying and other broker scandals could have been avoided if the socialist government had put more emphasis on controlling public funds instead of supporting the financial institution. I ask the honourable Member to accept my reply. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2016-10-17-77	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I will ask Congresswoman Márta Demeter if she will accept the State Secretary's reply. Here you go.
u2016-10-17-78	Of course, I cannot accept it, because in a year and a half it took so many answers and so many solutions. I think it's a disaster! Secretary of State, there is one question of compensation: it is a matter of political will. What are you waiting for? Don't wait for each other, the days will pass. This was a health-preservation saving. That's the money they can spend on supplemental health care, medical aids, anything other than the Honvéd Hospital. While the stock is expected to take on an amazing overload while public security is being provided at the same time by law enforcement workers at the border, we know under what conditions and to what incredible extent they are overloaded, the risk increases day by day, there can be more and more accidents and diseases. And you're waiting for each other and you're wondering what to do. It's just a matter of political will. We see there's always money for what they want. There can be no question that the most important force is the security guarantee of the stock. The state that doesn't appreciate its soldiers, police officers, national security personnel is constantly putting the country's security at risk.
u2016-10-17-79	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, As we have heard, the congresswoman did not accept the Secretary of State's reply. That's why I'm asking the Parliament to accept it. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the State Secretary's reply 108 yes, 30 votes not, without abstention. Dear Parliament, Congressman Lajos Kepli, representative of Jobbik, has submitted an interview to the Minister for National Development: - Will the government pay the sum of the late billed waste money instead of the population? It's an address. Congressman Lajos Kepli has the floor. Here you go, Congressman.
u2016-10-17-80	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, Please answer me a simple question: can the Hungarian people be held responsible for the inadequacy of the government? When the amendment of the Waste Act that created the National Waste Management Coordinator and Asset Management Zrt. came into force in March, the pro-government majority of Parliament also accepted that this organisation was only entitled to bill waste delivery fees. However, this organisation has not been able to implement it since then, or only now, with more than six months of delay. Therefore, from these about six months of garbage charges, yellow cheques were sent to households in a single amount. After the start of the school, at the beginning of the heating season, the large majority of Hungarians have a huge burden of 20-30 000 extra loads, and it is not certain that Hungarian households can pay for this. [[13.20]] In particular, this is not fair, since it was not their fault that they had to pay a return fee of more than six months. The burden should be borne by the one who made the mistake. And it is clear here that, due to a hasty, unconventional legislation, the government has set up an organization, while providing drivers with a monthly salary of millions, service vehicles, but it has not made possible the infrastructure needed to perform the basic task: it has not been able to issue an invoice by the body whose primary task was to do so. Quite simply, it shows a huge dilettantism or slyness. I think that Hungarian families have just enough on their necks, they have just had enough to start school, they have enough problems to cover the costs of winter heating, how they can buy fuel; it is unfortunate that now, during this period, even an extra load is being loaded on their necks. Meanwhile, I think the government is moving away from ordinary people's problems. As you travel and urinate by helicopter, much of the Hungarian families are slowly getting their daily food supply and creating their cover is becoming increasingly problematic. Please, Secretary of State, tell me what caused this six-month delay, that it was not possible to bill ordinary monthly garbage delivery charges for six months, that they are now charging families at the same time with this amount. Has anyone been held accountable for this? Was it because of your government's hasty legislation, because of the incompetence of the organization, or did it happen for some other reason? I am waiting for your answer, and the Hungarian families are also waiting for an answer. I would also like to draw your attention to the fact that the government and the Hungarian state should be able to withstand and pay the Hungarian families for the accumulated costs. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2016-10-17-81	Thank you very much, Congressman. State Secretary Zsolt Szabó responds to this interpellation. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2016-10-17-82	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Mr President, Honourable Congressman, If I may, I would like to begin with a rhetorical question. If you or you are so concerned about the waste charge and its framework, then why don't we get questions about how the government managed to pay a bill reduced by five years' rent? [[Intercoms from Jobbik's ranks.]] and what the government is doing to keep these achievements in the next period [[György Sziâlágyi: Allow us to ask the question.]] And not, let's say, a financial burden on the population at Western European level? As regards waste management, many of these issues have already been raised by opposition parties before Parliament. These things are usually similar to scares: they stop transporting waste, they won't be insured, they won't work. I'd like to reassure you. [[Intercoms from Jobbik's ranks. The president's ringing the bell.]] : the shipment of waste is still in operation at the moment. Until this moment, NHKV Zrt. We have issued nearly four million invoices on or from the public, and after the quarterly accounts that we have kept for the previous period as a payment schedule, we are now going to bill the second quarter, and we are going to be able to maintain and maintain the acquis that relates to the reduction of the overhead. The whole system is characterised by flexibility. I'll give you an example: we have an agreement with the Banking Association that there will be an automatic transition to collective debit payments. Thus, for example, those with such an account have such a decision, this financial burden has already been automatically imposed. [[György Szilágyi intervenes.]] Waste management as a public service has already been ensured by public services. The system is financially stable and operational. Compared to the accounting provided by the public service providers, so-called sub-period accounting will continue to take place in the next period. Just to note, in the last two months or so, there have been about 40 articles that have projected various problems, thanks to heaven, none of them have proved to be real, and I would like to reassure you, Mr President, that this system will continue to work in the next period. From arrival, i.e. from the moment the invoice was taken over by a resident, and now I'm telling you what the financial concessions we have made are: there is a payment deadline of 15 days - if you can't keep this, you can ask for an extra check and you can meet the financial performances with a deferred payment deadline; and if you ask for it separately, we can also provide a so-called payment option. However, once again, these accounts contain a value that has already been set at a reduction in the cost of debt for the purposes of the financial burden. This means that they are a much lower burden for the population, and what we are doing now, in terms of the future, we want to further increase this concession, this discount. In the event that anyone is unable to keep these achievements and achievements, both the Energy Agency and consumer protection are kindly available. However, given that this is a functioning public service, I think it is expected that the minimum financial burden can therefore be addressed by the residents. I believe - and I repeat the idea that I started with - that if you want to help the population, you should rather support the government in its intention to provide the more flexible public service by charging as little public service charges as possible. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-10-17-83	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I will ask Congressman Lajos Kepli if he will accept the State Secretary's answer. Here you go.
u2016-10-17-84	Secretary of State, I have not received an answer to any of the questions, but I have not received an answer mainly to the question of the reason why an organisation that is being created cannot carry out the task for which it was created for six months. In other words, two cases are possible: either the government is unable to perform its task, and through this the organization, which it has created, or we have to assume some kind of malice, a mischief, behind which even the aim of making service providers impossible is to create a new system. That's what rumors are about. After all, many times the service providers, most local government-owned organizations, are on the verge of transporting garbage at all. One thing is certain: either incompetence or scoundrelry, or possibly incompetent scoundrelry - you are certainly trying to collect the price on the Hungarian people now, and this is unacceptable for Jobbik, and I will not accept your answer either. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2016-10-17-85	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, As we have heard, the Member did not accept the State Secretary's reply, so I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts it. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the State Secretary's reply by 107 votes in favour, 28 against and without abstentions. Dear Parliament, Member Imre Vejkey, representative of KDNP, has submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Human Resources:.. Has the National Talent Programme 2017-2018 been completed, and what other measures are planned by the government in the field of talent management? It's an address. Congressman Imre Vejkey has the floor. Here you go, Congressman.
u2016-10-17-86	Mr President, Thank you for the floor. Dear Secretary of State, As a Member of Parliament and as a Christian Democrat politician, I consider it extremely important to improve the situation of young people, and I think it is necessary to pay particular attention to their talent, which also means our faith in our future, and our trust and hope in growing generations. At the end of 2008, with a five-party consultation, he adopted a 20-year-long decision under the name of the National Talent Programme of the House, which defined the promotion of talent as a strategic government goal. Thus, Hungarian talent management, which has a long tradition, can receive support and receive support at state level every year. It is important that the talent management of the profession and the civil sector can achieve its goal much more effectively in Hungary, as well as in the Hungarian territories of abroad, in order to help talent and to improve their knowledge. Dear Secretary of State, In the framework of the 280 calls announced between 2009 and 2016 under the two-year action programmes, 8850 projects were supported and the total amount of grants was more than HUF 12.3 billion. [[13.30]] Each year 300-350 thousand young people could participate in programmes to help them develop their talent. In view of the programmes and future developments that have been implemented so far, I respectfully ask the Secretary of State whether the 2017-18 action programme has already been completed and, if so, what it contains, as well as what possible additional measures the government plans to take in the field of talent management and what additional support it plans to support future generations. I look forward to the honour of Mrs Secretary of State's reply. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-10-17-87	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Mr Imre Vejkey's interpellation question will be answered by Secretary of State Katalin Veresné Novák. Here you go, Madam Secretary.
u2016-10-17-88	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Honourable Congressman, Dear House, I am pleased that if we can talk about talent in this House, too, because I think that it is important for all of us to send a message to our young people that if they are talented in something, they will also receive the support they need from the government. If they feel talented, they can know that they have someone to rely on, that they can rely not only on teachers, talent-care professionals, but also on a complex long-term program that they can rely on from a very small age to adulthood. What's this about? Here there is a unique national talent program in Hungary, which has long-term goals, and we provide funding from several sources. Indeed, there is the commitment of taxpayers in this national talent programme, as 1 percent of the tax can also be offered to support the national talent programme, and we are very happy to find that more and more citizens are offering 1 percent of their taxes to support the national talent programme. So in this form, this program is becoming increasingly popular, and so we can provide support for more and more talented young people. As the Member mentioned, a 300-350 thousand children per year is a huge number that we achieve through this programme. We have also raised government funding, since we add twice as much money as before. We now spend 2.8 billion forints a year to support the national talent program. This means that the government will add an additional HUF 1.4 billion to the 1.4 billion bid. In addition, we have also invested additional resources for talent management, as we have already launched a development programme, a programme running from the current operational programme for human resources development, which envisages HUF 6.5 billion for talent management. So, in addition to domestic resources, HUF 6.5 billion has been added to the management of talent. It is also important that we have a coordination body where, in addition to government actors, the citizens, representatives of scientific life, the chairman of the Cultural Committee of the Parliament, so the experts make the proposals in a very broad discussion and consensus. The previous programme runs until 30 June 2017, and now this council, this committee, this forum, has adopted the programme for the next two years. From this, I would like to highlight two important elements, which is a novelty, which was asked by Mr President. On the one hand, we put more emphasis on early talent care than before, so we want to reach children in kindergarten, we also address talented preschool children, and we launch kindergarten talent programs, and we also have a new element to focus on girls separately. So in areas where girls are typically less present, or not so popular, these professions, these sectors, these fields of science for girls, we also launch talent programs for young talented girls. It is also a novelty in the national talent program that we place special emphasis on the characteristics of the Carpathian Basin, so all our programmes are something that does not stop at our borders, but we also reach and address Hungarian talented children living outside our borders. So there are also a number of new programmes to be expected for the proposals announced next year, which we will announce at the beginning of next year. This two-year action plan is currently being discussed, and we are confident that thanks to both the national talent programme and the EFOP programme of talent Hungary, we will be able to support more and more talented young Hungarians. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-10-17-89	Thank you very much, Madam Secretary. I will ask Mr Imre Vejkey if she will accept the reply of the Secretary of State. Here you go, Congressman.
u2016-10-17-90	Mr President, Thank you for the floor. Dear Secretary of State, On the one hand, I thank you for your reply and on the other hand for the fact that EMMI has prepared the latest programme of action for the implementation of the National Talent Programme for 2017-18. As a result, it was clear to me that Hungary is able to provide significant financial support for talented students and young people and talented professionals in 2017-18, and indeed, as the Secretary of State said, not significant but much more significant support. Thank you very much for introducing early talent. I think it's extremely important that we can focus on little children in a kindergarten environment. Dear Secretary of State, By accepting your reply, thank you for your kind attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-10-17-91	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, As we have heard, the congressman has accepted the Secretary of State's reply. This brings us to the end of the interpellation period. Now we're going to move on to the questions. A half-minute technical break in order for those who leave the meeting room now to do so without delay so that we can continue our work without delay. [[It's a short break.]] [[Attila Móring József takes his place in the notary seat.]] Dear Parliament, Ms Ágnes Kunhalmi, representative of the MSZP, wishes to ask the Minister of Human Resources:. The winter is coming. Has the government and the homeless people system been prepared for the cold months? It's an address. [[Noise.]] Colleagues, please allow Congresswoman to ask her question without delay. Congresswoman Agnes Kunhalmi has the floor. Here you go.
u2016-10-17-92	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, Although we had recently enjoyed the summer of old women, in early October we had some where it froze and snowed. Even later, meteorologists predict a colder autumn than usual. Many have already heated up in their homes. Unfortunately, some people can't do that. Some because they start the heating season with debts already in the past, they have a debt to pay. Today, this affects hundreds of thousands of families in Hungary. In fact, some people lose their homes because of it, and some people have been homeless for a long time and spend their nights on the streets because they cannot or do not want to sleep in hotels. Every year, unfortunately, we hear of people dying because of the cold. Cooling affects both the people on the street and those who sleep in an unheated apartment. There is not one place in the capital today where children are put to sleep in their coats, Mr. Secretary of State. The fact that this situation today is also due to the government's actions in Hungary over the past six years, since social aid has been abolished, reduced and no meaningful strategy has been developed to reduce the housing crisis. Private bankruptcy is a government bankruptcy, and CSOK is only available to higher incomes. Thus, families living in poverty remain in debt spirals, lack of prospects, eviction, eventually being put on the street and the family falling apart. Unfortunately, this is reality today. In view of this, I would like to ask the Secretary of State whether the homeless people system is prepared for the cold months. Has all material and material conditions been ensured so that professionals can help the people and families concerned as effectively as possible? What do you do to support people at risk of housing after a year and a half ago the housing support and the debt management aid, which has not been replaced by any other form of support? Will sufficient resources be provided for the firewood support programme? How much money was there last year, and how much is it this winter? Thank you for your reply. [[13.40]]
u2016-10-17-93	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. The answer will be given by Secretary of State Bence Rétvári. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2016-10-17-94	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Dear House, I think it is better that a Socialist Member does not rise from the backlog of the rent here in Parliament, because you are the ones who have doubled or tripled the price of electricity and gas under their own governance. [[Agnes Kunhalmi: They've been ruling for the seventh year!]] Then they didn't realize how many people that meant they couldn't heat up their apartment. On the other hand, Fidesz-KDNP has launched a reduction in overhead costs: in 2013-14, it was worth 373 billion savings to Hungarian families. [[Agnes Kunhalmi: The children are freezing!]] the 2015 estimate is HUF 268 billion, that's all that's left in the pocket of Hungarian families. [[Agnes Kunhalmi: Okay, but this isn't real!]] , so much less people have to worry about whether they can heat up their apartments or not, but this has also been reflected in other surveys, as according to Eurostat's survey, the number of people in Hungary who have had problems with the lack of adequate heating of the apartment has decreased by 450 thousand in the last two years. So this is a noticeable decline, just like the number of people with any kind of backlog in relation to the apartment has been reduced by hundreds of thousands. In the case of homeless people, aid applications were announced in time again this year, which means HUF 360 million in support of various services and assistance: medicines and blankets, food, crisis cars, street reconnaissance services. 3 billion HUF is available for social fuel support, which will be decided by the Ministry of Interior by 31 October. The eviction moratorium will continue to apply from 1 December to 1 March this year. I can't deal with your comments, Madam honourable Member, when you say that the CSOK can only be used by high-income families. If a family receives ten million forints of non-refundable subsidies for housing purchases as non-refundables, regardless of income conditions, I do not know where this benefits the rich. Everyone, rich or poor [[The President shall ring a bell to indicate the expiry of the time limit.]] , 10 million forints will receive non-refundable grants for three children. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-10-17-95	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Congressman István Szávay, representative of Jobbik, notary of the Parliament, wishes to ask the Minister of National Economy a question:. Would the Government support the introduction of the four-day working week more widely in Hungary? It's an address. Congressman István Szávay, notary, has the floor.
u2016-10-17-96	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, Nyakigláb Kft., which operates in Zemplén. a few years ago, he switched from five to eight hours of work to four times ten hours. Last week, I met one of the company's managers, who told me about the satisfaction of his employees, the increase in their efficiency, the savings on their overhead costs and the increase in the profits of their business. As a responsible national party prepared to lead Hungary, we know, of course, that from the employee side it is inevitable to raise wages as soon as possible, and from the employer's side, there is a legitimate need for urgent reductions in taxes and contributions to work. We have spoken on several occasions on this issue, but the government has not accepted any of our proposals. At the same time, Jobbik also tirelessly explores opportunities that can make domestic jobs more attractive and improve employee satisfaction by also increasing the efficiency of our businesses, thus contributing, for example, to the reduction of catastrophic exodus. We believe that a day off can help families not only by reducing the time they travel to work, but also in terms of administrative administration, training and learning or recreation, while the three-day weekend can contribute a little to the recovery of domestic tourism. At the same time, we are also aware that many people are still forced to take 10-12 hours or even longer shifts, so that it is not possible to change the working order in many areas. For example, it is difficult to imagine this in the public sector, but it seems easier to achieve in the producer sector or in the case of small and medium-sized enterprises. Jobbik therefore considers that a more thorough discussion of the introduction of a four-day working week based on mutual agreement between workers and employers and the promotion by state resources should be considered. On the basis of the above, I ask the Secretary of State whether the Government would support the wider introduction of the four-day working week in Hungary. I'm waiting for your answer. Thank you. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2016-10-17-97	Thank you very much, Congressman, notary. The answer will be given on behalf of the Government by Secretary of State Péter Cseresnyés. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2016-10-17-98	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, As I listened to you, and if I didn't know who was asking the question, I might as well have remembered which left party, MSZP, or DK. But if what you said was true that you were prepared, then you must know that the Code of Work provides a wide range of possibilities for the application of the four-day working week. The employer may set up a four-day working week taking into account its operational schedule. The working schedule may be determined by dividing working time for four working days of the week if it meets its operational characteristics and ensures its effective functioning, as the example you mentioned shows you can do. There is no obstacle to employers in a different working order, with unequal working arrangements, for example, to spend four times a week ten hours on a working time or in a settlement period. In the working time frame, the employer can manage working time flexibly and create favourable conditions for the employee to use rest or leisure time. In this way, I can inform the Member that the legislation in force encourages flexible organisation of working time and provides an appropriate framework for the establishment of a four-day working week, so that a specific measure by the government is not justified in spreading this measure, because it would result in excessive public intervention in the employment relationship. I think it is enough that the opportunity has been created, and that the employer who wants to take advantage of this opportunity can do so in a different way, thus dividing the employee's working time. Once again, I would like to refer you back to it, and you can see the example that there are employers who can use it and apply it. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-10-17-99	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Congressman Sallai R. Benedek, representative of LMP, would like to ask the Minister of Agriculture:. What substantive steps will the government take to strengthen Hungary's nuclear safety, in particular with regard to the extension of nuclear power plants in Ukraine? It's an address. Congressman Sallai R. Benedek has the floor. Here you go.
u2016-10-17-100	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, I am fulfilling my professional duty when I address today, in addition to the amendment of the Fundamental Law, Hungary's concern for the future of what is actually happening in Ukraine. The Hungarian government is not deterred by anything, by the breakdown in 2003 or by the fact of the failure in July, to break off with the atom, and it seems to connect the country to the atom for a long time, but I am at least so concerned by the fact that there are 15 reactors still operating in Ukraine, from which they have already expired, and by 2020 the planned operating time expires. I asked the Minister with a written question during the summer, and asked whether the Ministry would like to take action with regard to the various developments with cross-border environmental impact, whether Hungary intervenes in relation to the Espoo Convention, expresses its concern, participates in the opinion on the extension. The Minister's written reply shows that he shares my concern and believes that it is necessary for the government to take action on this matter. Unfortunately, I have not seen any action taken on this matter since they did anything to the Ukrainian party. At the moment, Ukraine claims that it can extend the operating time of these reactors in its own power, it claims that this is an internal environmental issue, although it is obviously a reactor that threatens the safety of Hungary in the long term by a way similar to former Soviet technology, Chernobyl. With all due respect, Mr Secretary of State, if any consultation has already been carried out. If so, with what result? If not, why not? What steps do you intend to take towards Ukraine and the Espoo Convention? Slovakia and Austria have already called on Ukraine and informed its request and of its concern to the competent body of the Espoo Convention. Is Hungary taking any measures to protect Hungary's citizens? Do you have information on how the Ukrainian legislative amendment stands, which would finally recognise that such activities should be authorised from an environmental point of view? [[The President shall ring a bell to indicate the expiry of the time limit.]] In this case, I would be honored to have your answer. Thank you.
u2016-10-17-101	Thank you very much, Congressman. Mr István Nagy, State Secretary, will answer the question of the Member. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2016-10-17-102	That's right. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear Congressman, I do not agree with you that we are waiting passively for the Ukrainian party's steps, because we have already summarized in detail our activities regarding the extension of the life of the Ukrainian nuclear power plants in August, even when we were informed in writing. The Espoo Convention governing the international environmental impact assessment referred to by you provides the framework for procedures between the two countries. As you mentioned, the Convention Compliance Committee called on Ukraine to inform neighbouring countries. [[13.50]] I would like to inform you that Ukraine has notified our country by letter in August 2016 of the Rivne nuclear power plant I and II. the expected authorisation of its blocks in 2017-18. In response, we asked for authorisation documentation to be provided on the basis of the provisions of the Convention. Our further aim is to make the Ukrainian party aware that our interest is ongoing. The facts therefore show that Ukraine has an intention to cooperate, that the contacts between the ministries of the two countries are ongoing. As regards the state of Ukrainian legislation, if you will allow me, honourable Member, I would not give you a detailed analysis of Ukrainian environmental legislation, but I would like to make one point in any case: Ukraine must comply with the provisions of the said Espoo Convention. This is currently being examined by the Convention Compliance Committee, in which Hungary's representative is also a member. International accountability is carried out by this forum, not by ministers or parliamentary representatives of each country. Since we are present in this committee, we can also see a sufficient guarantee that we know what is happening there, and that we will intervene in due course and at the right time. Thank you very much for asking. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-10-17-103	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, Congresswoman Gabriella Selmeczi and MEP Lajos Szűcs, representatives of Fidesz, would like to ask the Minister of National Economy:. What wrong decision of the Socialist Government do we still have to correct in Ferihegy? It's an address. The answer will be given by Congressman Lajos Szűcs, notary of the Parliament. [[Interjection: The question.]] Sorry, the question. [[Defiance.]]
u2016-10-17-104	Honourable Court of Justice. This is The Witness movie... [[Defiance.]]
u2016-10-17-105	Dear Congressman, If I may, I'd like to introduce you again.
u2016-10-17-106	Thank you very much.
u2016-10-17-107	The question will be raised by MEP Lajos Szűcs, the notary of the Parliament, and then the secretary of state, András Tállai, will answer the question after it is said. There you go. You have the floor.
u2016-10-17-108	Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, The question is more serious. Back in 2005, the Gyurcsány government privatized Budapest Airport Zrt., which operates Ferihegy, in disregard of national interests, whose consequences the Hungarian State still suffers. The next step in restoring a broken balance is to increase the national economy, to strengthen the desire to improve the once squandered area, which the government intends to achieve by establishing a positive cooperation for all. For this reason, Prancad Ltd submitted an application in February to make the area outside Vecsés a priority for the national economy. In the context of the Cargo City investment, Airport is planning to set up hotels, offices, conference and logistics centres with a HUF 150-200 billion amount. The land in question consists of 26 parts registered with different local map numbers, but in fact, the number of owners is much more than that. To be honest, the use of the zone has so far been hampered by the fact that it is undivided in common ownership. In the event that the government declares the procedures for the approval of the investment as a priority, it may help to implement it by providing even faster administration, by obtaining out-of-court authorizations. I'd like to say a few words about the company. It is an Irish company whose 100 percent Hungarian subsidiary is Prancad Hungary. The project will be carried out under the leadership of Hungarian and foreign professionals and with various contributors. I would like to draw attention to the fact that this is linked to the government's plan to create over a million new jobs in ten years. I ask the Secretary of State: what wrong decision of the Socialist Government do we have to correct even in Ferihegy? Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-10-17-109	Thank you very much, Mr. Notary. The answer, as I have already mentioned, will be given by State Secretary András Tállai. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2016-10-17-110	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, Indeed, Malév became a company established in 1992, the ownership of the State was 99.9 percent prior to privatisation. The Malév group gave 2600 people a job, 500 Hungarian small businesses paid about 600 billion forints per year based on orders, so hundreds of people here too. However, in January 2003, the socialists and free democrats decided to privatise it. There was a scenario in which the company was first deprived of its revenues and resources and thus significantly reduced the value of the company, and then in 2004-2005 the ÁPV Rt. issued three times. sales, privatisation, this was unsuccessful. Then, contrary to the privatisation concept, decisions and decisions were taken, so AirBridge Zrt won. privatization, of which - very interesting - among its owners an ÁPV Rt. he was a former supervisory board member who gave up on this and then appeared as a buyer. This company, AirBridge Zrt. did not comply with the privatisation contract, did not invest capital in keeping Malév alive, so later the committee of inquiry set up by the National Assembly clearly stated that there was no advantage in privatisation, and the fraudulently concluded financing contracts and the three-year robbery management completely destroyed Malév financially, making its independent operation virtually impossible. This socialist privatization, it was waiting for the Fidesz government, and it had to be fixed later. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-10-17-111	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Congresswoman Anita Heringes, representative of the MSZP, would like to ask the Minister of the Interior: "What should the poorest heat when the firewood runs out? It's an address. Congresswoman Anita Heringes has the floor. Here you go.
u2016-10-17-112	Thank you for the floor. Dear Secretary of State, Unfortunately, the government has not increased the framework for the firewood programme this year, although more and more are in need. A few days ago, Minister of State said that, indeed, the programme is popular, since 2185 municipalities submitted applications for this option last year and 2291 municipalities submitted applications this year. We do not think this is so commendable, as this is a sign that poverty in Hungary is increasing. Many settlements can't apply without self-esteem, even though there's a lot of poverty, especially in villages. The government spent billions on posters instead of raising, for example, the framework for firewood support. Maybe they'd like you to heat with posters in the country? Last year the municipalities received the available framework on 19 October 2015, and this year you will decide on the proposals only at the end of October. Firewood information is also available on the government's website, and firewood is only available wisely! 10 points, the first point of which is to make sure that everyone buys their firewood at the beginning of the summer. How can a local government buy the necessary amount of wood at the beginning of summer if the aid is only received in the autumn? The social situation of those living in poverty is also aggravated by the fact that the government - and you - abolished housing support a year and a half ago. Today, there is only one form of support that is largely provided as crisis aid in these settlements, if they can provide anything to the population. My question, Mr. Secretary: what does the government do to ensure that no one stays unheated? Why doesn't the government spend more money on the firewood program while they spend a lot of it on propaganda? You don't have to chopper. You have to give firewood to the public. I'm looking forward to your reply.
u2016-10-17-113	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. The answer will be given by Secretary of State Tibor Pogácsás. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2016-10-17-114	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and I have to argue with a number of your findings. The indicators with which poverty is characterised have improved since 2013. By 2013, we managed to reverse the trend of increasing poverty, and since then we have taken action and achieved results in the fight against poverty. During this period, the number of people who had no adequate heating in their homes decreased by 450 thousand, based on measurements. With regard to the provision of housing conditions and the necessary assistance, I must also say that the municipal support provided by the municipalities always gives the municipalities the opportunity to grant the necessary support, knowing their own population, knowing those in need. I have to say that, following the restructuring of the aid scheme, only 167 municipalities out of the nearly 3200 municipalities have applied to supplement their social assistance, so the municipalities can fulfil this task. [[14.00]] I also have to say that we are now providing enormous help to low-income people in the feeding of children, because every child in need can get free food from the time of day, and in the system going up to school they receive textbooks for free, so I think that all families in need will receive significant help not only for their winter livelihood, but also for their annual livelihood. By the way, every settlement under 5 000 inhabitants can participate in the social firewood programme, and these settlements are now using this tender and can deliver the firewood in time. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-10-17-115	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Member Balázs Ander, representative of Jobbik, would like to ask the Minister of the Prime Minister's Cabinet Office a question: "Do you think it is compatible with civil virtues to rob a corpse?" If not, why aren't they separated from him? It's an address. Congressman Ander Balázs has the floor. Here you go, Congressman.
u2016-10-17-116	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Secretary. Heresznye was a small settlement in South Somogy, a hundred years ago she had over seven hundred inhabitants, most of them Croatian, and now she's had more than two hundred people living there. Unfortunately, the press did not name this small settlement because of the positive events. But let's see what's on the news. The court ruled against the mayor and his accomplices in fidesz colours the other day. The Fidesz mayor was sentenced to two years in prison for perjury and forgery, and 7 million forints were confiscated. Since we have encountered a case where a Fidesz councilman beat him to death and then poured his victim into concrete, we could say that the current story is a bagatel case, let us shrivel our shoulders, for it is not worth talking; the perpetrators were now at least so restrained as to wait for their victim's natural death and then cast an eye on its legacy. By the way, the mayor of Fidesz, who obtained the fortune of the elderly man who died without an heir by fraudulent means, has not yet resigned, so we look forward to the reaction of the Fidesz leaders and the government. In the ranks of any party there may be a common lawful villain, but you, like a good Pharisee, always notice the splinter in another's eyes, but not the beam in your own. With the monotony of a hypocrite parrot, they iron, volner, and drag out the affairs they say. As an overzealous hypocrite, the country's strongest opposition party is being spewed on their Habony propaganda bullshit, while billionaires, with their systemic downfalls, provide a harmful pattern for their own small fish, who sometimes get caught. [[Sándor Lezsák, vice-president of the Parliament takes the chair.]] So I wonder if you feel responsible for what socialisation schemes you're providing, when you're secluded in the specific case, but what I'm curious about is when you're finally going to get involved. Thank you. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2016-10-17-117	Thank you very much, Congressman. I give the floor to the Secretary of State, Csaba Dömötör.
u2016-10-17-118	Honourable Congressman, I do not regularly follow what happened in the Heresnye settlement, but the style in which you speak of a man's death is unworthy and devoid of the slightest spark of grace. If I understand correctly, this is a first-rate decision, which is why justice is the responsibility in this matter, not the government, and certainly not the legislation. An ongoing trial does not fall within the government's jurisdiction, however, if a person commits lawlessness, he must answer. That's what I think. If I recall correctly, you were talking about socialization schemes and civil virtues. While we're here, let me ask you a few questions. [[Dr. Gergely Bárándy: We're the only ones who can ask questions here, and you have to answer them.]] How does it fit in that an older representative of Jobbik made contact with a minor young girl? The matter was even discussed by the party's ethics committee. You know very well what this is about. How can it be that, speaking of rural settlements, there is a model mayor with a crane feather near Jobbik, who is being investigated in at least five cases? These include embezzlement, infidelity, and harassment. This is the man you parade around the country. You talk about a clean public life in your speeches, but while you're lying around in dirty matters, you're chasing the left-wing parties, including the SZDSZ, which has constantly called everyone away. You must know very well why you're doing this. Thank you for your attention. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2016-10-17-119	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, We'll move on to immediate questions. Congresswoman Ágnes Kunhalmi, representative of the MSZP, wishes to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question: "Does Kehi really have a manual guide, Prime Minister? It's an address. The Prime Minister has appointed Minister János Lázár to respond to an urgent public task. I ask the congresswoman if she accepts the person who is responding.
u2016-10-17-120	Mr. President, I won't accept it. I'll wait for the Prime Minister.
u2016-10-17-121	Thank you very much. Prime Minister will have to answer at the hour of the second immediate question. Dear Parliament, László Varga, a representative of the MSZP, wishes to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question:. Why do you distinguish between two identical medals, two equally successful ones? It's an address. Prime Minister János Lázár has appointed Minister for the response. I would like to ask the Member if he accepts the person who is responding.
u2016-10-17-122	Mr. President, I'd like to wait for the Prime Minister.
u2016-10-17-123	He'll wait. Thank you very much. Prime Minister will have to answer at the hour of the second immediate question. Gergely Bárándy, a representative of the MSZP, wants to ask the President of the Hungarian National Bank an immediate question with the title "Friends, Friends and Others." Mr President has appointed Vice-President Márton Nagy as a response to an urgent public task. I ask the Member if he accepts the person who is responding.
u2016-10-17-124	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Looks like there's not ten million times a day today either, so I'd like to wait for Mr. President. Thank you.
u2016-10-17-125	Thank you very much. Mr President will have to answer at the hour of the second immediate question. Dear Parliament, László Varga, a representative of the MSZP, wants to ask the Minister of Human Resources an immediate question: Mr. Minister has appointed Mr. Bence Rétvári as Secretary of State to respond to an urgent public task. I ask Congressman Varga if he will accept the person of the response.
u2016-10-17-126	I accept, Mr. President.
u2016-10-17-127	Thank you very much. Then you have the floor, Congressman Varga.
u2016-10-17-128	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Today is the World Day for Combating Poverty, in this connection I would like to give you some information, which I hope you will see and perceive the reality of Hungary, and then I would like to ask you a few questions. [[In the notary seat Attila Móring József will be replaced by László Földi.]] Today, some 35 percent of children in Hungary face severe material deprivation. This data came to light about a year ago. This situation is better in Romania, and only worse in Bulgaria in the European Union. There are well over 4 million people living below the minimum of living, which affects about 1.4 million households. What was your response to this situation, this terrible situation in Hungarian society? By not publishing the minimum living data from here on out, they're trying to solve this issue by sweeping the problem under the carpet. Almost half of the sija confessions earn under the minimum of living. It's unacceptable. So workers' poverty is indeed present in Hungarian society. VAT is still a Europe peak, 27 percent, and this is the case for most basic foods. There have been very limited attempts to reduce this. It is clear, therefore, that Hungarian society is split in two. You're forgetting more than 4 million living below the minimum living limit. Their situation has become worse in the last six years, and you are only benefiting from a narrow, privileged circle with your actions. So the question arises: when do you want to deal with the everyday problems of the Hungarian people instead of building your helicopter, urizing and grating clientship? I'm waiting for your answer. Thank you, Mr. President.
u2016-10-17-129	Thank you very much. I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári. [[14.10]]
u2016-10-17-130	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Honourable Congressman, Dear House, After 2010, the government considered it one of its priorities to provide children with the best possible opportunities to live a full life. Therefore, families raising children are one of the biggest winners of the past six years. Forint 1100 billion is the amount that we left in the family tax scheme to spend on children, with 1100 billion more on children in Hungary than they could have spent if the socialist government continued, as we left more money than families. In the case of child poverty, you did not mention, Mr President, that according to Eurostat data, since 2012, the number and proportion of children who are at risk of any kind of income poverty has been falling nicely, year after year, in Hungarian: their parents earn little, and therefore they are more difficult to manage. Even because the family-type tax system is working accurately, fewer and fewer families live without working, with 600,000 more people working. Obviously, their work income is higher than they could have lived on aid before. So for children, poverty or deprivation are not so common. The fact that, in the case of the youngest children, when they were talking about children, compared to the 92,000 in their time as a practice in kindergarten, 318 thousand children are now given free to eat in nursery and kindergarten for free, shows that we are trying to compensate for these disadvantages in nature as well. Not to mention that in school, these children in the first four classes receive the book package free of charge, and then they continue to do so later. As for your attitude, let us not forget that while the minimum wage rose by an average of HUF 2,900 per year under socialist governments, in recent years by HUF 6,300. Three times more than you did, the wages of the lowest earners in our time. Who, then, is solidarity with the most low earners? Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-10-17-131	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. You have the opportunity to respond in return, Congressman.
u2016-10-17-132	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, At least you wouldn't have said this minimum wage issue at the end, since the minimum wage was tax-free before 2010 and you taxed the wages of the lowest earners. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: Families with children do not pay taxes.]] About 600,000 people have wandered from Hungary, and I can't interpret it any other way, if you don't see this huge and deep social problem, then you're probably living in another Hungary. It is not confused by the facts or the Hungarian reality. Along with emigration, many people are forced to work for the price of hunger. Their situation has fundamentally changed or deteriorated in recent years, and this causes not only deep social problems, but also very serious economic problems, because the lack of skilled labour is preventing the development of the Hungarian economy because of their emigration. Not to mention that this divided Hungary is thus forced to live in social unrest because of your politics. I am definitely saying that we need a change. Change your policy or leave. Thank you very much.
u2016-10-17-133	Thank you very much. The rejoinder also applies to the Secretary of State.
u2016-10-17-134	Thank you very much. Fate or God will prevent Hungary from getting government back in the hands of the socialists, because we remember what you did then. But, Congressman, for your example: in the case of a family with children, if parents are looking for minimum wage, not only do they not pay taxes, they do not pay contributions. [[Dr. László Varga: Young people starting the course.]] The young people who started the course, the way he yelled it out. How many young people were unemployed at your time? Every fourth. How much now? Now it's only 11-12 percent, about every eight. One in four is one in eight, honourable Member. [[Dr. Szél Bernadett: Every second youth wants to leave Hungary. The president's ringing the bell.]] This is the process that would be halted if you were re-governmented, your high taxes were dropped again, the job protection action was lifted again, with which we were able to offer young people a job at home. But since LMP is the second loudest screamer, their tax system would slowly reduce this level of employment, as living work would be subject to such high taxes, which would also pose a huge risk to Hungary. Dear Members, Ladies and Gentlemen, I think we should be proud that now 600,000 more people can make a living out of their family's income. Thank you very much.
u2016-10-17-135	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, György Szilágyi, a representative of Jobbik, wishes to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question: - Hasn't it been enough, Prime Minister? It's an address. The Prime Minister has appointed Minister János Lázár to respond to an urgent public task. I'm asking you if you'll accept the response.
u2016-10-17-136	It's an honor, Mr. President, but I'll wait for Prime Minister. Thank you very much.
u2016-10-17-137	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, Ádám Mirkóczki, representative of Jobbik, wishes to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question: "Will they ever be worthy of the memory of 1956?" The Prime Minister has appointed Mr János Lázár, Minister of the Prime Minister's Office, to reply to an urgent public task. I'm asking you if you'll accept the response.
u2016-10-17-138	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Minister, Istova is 26 years behind, and Istova is 60 years behind in the country itself. I would like to begin with a finding that all governments of the last 26 years are responsible and historically, morally indebted and guilty if we think of the spirit and objectives of the victims of 1956. One does not become worthy of the spirit of our 1956 memory by spending millions, tens of millions, hundreds of millions or billions on various events, memorials, it is necessary, joyful, but in itself few. It will not be worthy of being the loudest of all political parties using the vast propaganda machine, nor will it be worthy of pointing out to others and forgetting the personal responsibility that may have been given to him, but has not taken advantage of it or allowed others to live with it. I think that today neither the Fidesz-KDNP nor a politician in the ranks of the MSZP is a worthy commemoration of any event of 56 in the country, who have been part of any governance of the past 26 years in some way; who have had the opportunity, once and for all, to take down the entire state security past in a clear way and to join at least the Polish, Romanian or Slovak model, in which they are already significantly ahead. I ask you, when will you become worthy of the spirit of 1956, when will you take down the history of state security once and for all? I'm waiting for your answer. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2016-10-17-139	Thank you. I give the floor to Minister János Lázár.
u2016-10-17-140	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear Parliament, First of all, I would like to start by saying that I share my fellow Member's view that the 1956 Revolution and the fight for freedom, and especially with the 60th anniversary approaching, is not the most important thing, whether the state or other communities are organising events. The most important thing is the way in which the revolution and the fight for freedom of 1956 is lived, and the system of retaliation for citizens who belong to this state and to the Hungarian community. I consider the memory and memory of ordinary people more important than the state memorial. And in this, I believe that reminder, exploration of the past, and education have a crucial role to play. Here, however, I would like to draw your attention to a basic sentence. Perhaps in connection with the 60th anniversary, there is no point in warning and raising awareness that today, by asking Hungarian voters in Hungary, there are an overwhelming majority of those who write János Kádár and his oeuvre on the glory wall of the country. It follows that there is a very high proportion, a high number of those who find the man who ordered the murder of at least 400 people himself, who is responsible for the emigration of hundreds of thousands of people and the imprisonment of tens of thousands of people, and who have carried out one of the toughest dictatorships in Hungary. So there's a reason and a place for remembering and reminding. There are two things about dealing with the past of state security and not having it. One of the things that József Antall said was that they would have liked to have made a revolution. The fact that the transition in Hungary was bloodless, not a single slap in 1989-90, obviously has a price. One, I think, is the price. There is no argument between us that we have paid a huge price for this. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-10-17-141	Thank you, Minister. Congressman, you have the right to a rejoinder.
u2016-10-17-142	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Minister, It is that any actor or leader of the previous system or of any dictatorship is judged, in particular, as your responsibility. That's the way they see it because there's no record of state security, no publication of agent lists, and the folk tradition that says everything was good for other countries can live longer. [[14.20]] If the past were properly revealed, it would not be the opinion of these people. I think the fact that you guys keep talking and stalling can give you very bad answers, and there's a very bad explanation. Either they're up to their necks in the previous system in the sense that the former people of the network are still among you today, or they have outside support from these people, whether the economic operator is a backup person today or in politics. You don't read well. The only thing you want to be worthy of is 1956. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] then they'll stop sabotaging this case, they'll release the agents' files, and they'll create the possibility of a Lustration Act. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2016-10-17-143	Thank you very much. The rejoinder is also due to the Minister.
u2016-10-17-144	Thank you very much. If there is a political movement and political force whose commitment cannot be claimed, it is Fidesz, because it was Viktor Orbán who, on 16 July 1989, told the sentence, which is unprecedented in Central Europe, and the defining sentence of Hungary's history during these decades, that was the sole demand of Hungarian political actors of that time to leave this country. I do not dispute Mr President's claim that the involvement of state security officers in the police work distorts quality and raises democratic questions. And I also do not dispute that the publication of the agent lists should take place, of course, with the consent of the observers, as the victims cannot be excluded from this story. I did it myself, that in my own town, I made the names of a hundred thirty-something agents public. What I can tell you is that it was good for the city and good for public life, and that doesn't change the opinion of János Kádár. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] [[Mrs. Loránt Violin will take her place in the notary's seat.]]
u2016-10-17-145	Thank you very much, Minister. Dear Parliament, Mr Bernadett Wind, representative of the LMP, wishes to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question, "Do you know the government is bigger than 3.3 million?" It's an address. The Prime Minister has appointed Mr János Lázár, Minister of the Prime Minister's Office, as a result of an urgent public task. Do you accept the response, Congresswoman?
u2016-10-17-146	Thank you, Mr. President. I'll wait for the Prime Minister.
u2016-10-17-147	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, Ákos Hadházy, representative of the LMP, wishes to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question, "Blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah." It's an The Prime Minister has appointed Minister János Lázár to respond to a public mission. I'm asking you if you'll accept the response.
u2016-10-17-148	Thank you, Mr. President. I'd like to wait for the Prime Minister.
u2016-10-17-149	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, Member Ákos Hadházy, representative of the LMP, would also like to ask the Attorney General an immediate question:, is this a success for you, Mr Attorney General? It's an address. Congressman Ákos Hadházy has the floor.
u2016-10-17-150	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, Dear Attorney General, Last week, the Quaestor case, which you said in Parliament, was a real success for you. I think it's a pretty cynical statement, even in the light of the fact that they were close to failure this summer, because they couldn't really bring the indictment into a readable and processable form until the trial began. But it's also cynical because we know that people in this case have been ruined, fates have been ruined, and compared to that, the investigation itself and the indictment leave a lot of questions open. It would be a long time, two minutes is not enough for that, and so is the answer. I'd like to ask you three things. Why doesn't the indictment deal with the responsibility of the supervisors? I mean, apart from you and the representatives of the government, I think everyone knows how much responsibility the supervisors have in this matter, that it may have developed. Second question: According to the indictment, Csaba Tarsoly took a total of HUF 1.2 billion out of the company group for private purposes as a result of a long process. This HUF 1.2 billion is a very large sum, and obviously the victims are also very interested in where this money is. The victims are interested, but you don't seem to care, they didn't find out. I think if this investigation were successful, you could also tell me where this 1.2 billion is. The third question is why Mr Tarsoly's secretary, Zoltán Mikuska, had not been heard, because I think that if someone had, he could have had significant information. I hope it's not because you asked your daughter, and she said Mr. Mikushka doesn't know anything. Thank you very much.
u2016-10-17-151	Thank you, Congressman. I give the floor to Attorney General Péter Polt.
u2016-10-17-152	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, If the congressman were really interested in answering these questions, he would probably have asked the question differently, as the title of your immediate question is:, Is this a success for you or is this a success for you, Mr Attorney General? There is much to think about, not exactly the Quaestor case, because it is also a success, but even the accelerations that are gaining ground in criminal matters, whether the number of crimes is falling year after year or even the prosecution's indictment. However, you did not take the trouble, deliberately or unintentionally, to give your question any kind of content. [[Intercoms from the opposition benches.]] Therefore, I could say that you will now receive the answers to your questions in writing, but allow me to say something about what can be said here immediately for the remaining two minutes, one minute and one minute. One is that it really is a success. In a year, to investigate such a complicated case of economic crimes against wealth is a success. And press charges: success. That charge is inside, the court will negotiate, and we have every hope that there will be a judgment in it that corresponds to objective truth. The other is the role of supervision. I assure you, Congressman, the Central Investigator's Attorney General is certainly looking into the role of supervision in criminal proceedings, because it could have been explored in 2005-2006, but for some reason this did not happen. We ourselves wonder why. Thank you very much, I'll continue. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-10-17-153	Thank you, Attorney General. I give the floor to the congressman in return.
u2016-10-17-154	Mr. Attorney General, you didn't answer any of this, not the last one. It's quite amazing that you're saying that you're looking at something from 2005, but in 2010 you're looking at something 12 and 13 about the role of supervision. He still didn't answer whether they had found or searched for the 1.2 billion forints that Csaba Tarsoly recorded according to the indictment. I'm sure you know; if you don't know, that's a terrible problem with a case like this. Or he didn't answer why Csaba Tarsoly's secretary wasn't heard. They didn't listen because your daughter said she didn't know or why? I think you can answer those questions in a minute, but I'm sure you could have done it in two if you wanted to.
u2016-10-17-155	Thank you very much. The rejoinder is also due to the Attorney General.
u2016-10-17-156	Unfortunately, I don't seem to be able to deal with the skills of the congressman, and two minutes or four minutes in a case this size is not enough for me, just as it would be very difficult to explain the contents of the 1500-page indictment. For the record, there was an investigation into the missing money. What could be discovered, I suggest you read the indictment, it's available. And as far as your last question is concerned, I refuse. That's a personal, rude and very low-key question. I don't think it's appropriate for this House. Besides, they were listening to anyone who knew anything about the case. Obviously, it's the investigating authorities who could decide that, not me. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-10-17-157	Thank you, Attorney General. Dear Parliament, Mónika Dunai, Member of the Fidesz, wants to ask the Minister of Human Resources an immediate question:. The number of disadvantaged children is decreasing! It's an address. [[Dr. Wind Bernadett: Can we answer? Depletion in the lines of the LMP.]] The Minister has appointed Secretary of State Bence Rétvári to answer. Do you accept the identity of the responder? [[For signal:]] It says yes. You have the floor, Congresswoman Mónika Dunai.
u2016-10-17-158	Mr President, Thank you very much for the floor. Dear Secretary of State, Dear House, The important objective of Fidesz is to reduce the number of disadvantaged families and children every year. [[14.30]] In the end, we want to achieve the goal of not having any disadvantaged children in Hungary in Hungarian families. Six years ago, because of the misguided decision of left-wing governments, twice as many children and young people were in a bad situation as they are now. Since then, there have been significant changes in the financial situation of families. Many of the parents are getting jobs, wages have increased in many places, and children's children are paying much less taxes today. Together, these effects have helped to significantly reduce the number of disadvantaged children and make more young people more hopeful. We now spend more than 4 percent of GDP on family support. This is much higher than the OECD average of 2.4 per cent and has been rising steadily since 2010. Family support will increase almost one-and-a-half times by 2017. The family tax allowance will increase to HUF 277 billion, which will be 8 percent more than it is this year. This means that only 110,000 families with the lowest income can retain their gross income in their entirety. Dear Secretary of State, All of this - and we could list family policy measures for a long time - shows that we are on the right track, but we cannot stop until, as I said, there is one disadvantaged child in Hungary. Dear Secretary of State, What are the results of family-friendly governance, how do we help Hungarian families raising children, and what are the plans of the State Secretary? Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties. Dr. László Varga: You just told me!]]
u2016-10-17-159	Thank you very much. I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári.
u2016-10-17-160	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Dear House, As you pointed out, it is outstanding at OECD level that Hungary spends on families, while the average of the most developed countries is 2.5 percent, the average of family subsidies compared to the national total product, this is now over 4 percent in Hungary, 4.5 percent, and next year's budget continues to grow, 4.7 percent, and in the last six years there has been no more family support than in the previous year. Every year, Hungarian families received new subsidies and discounts every year. Remember, when the duration of the child has been increased from two to three years until it can be used, thus increasing by 1.5 times the amount that families can use, but who wanted to work sooner is of importance to those who want to take up work, the ged extra is important, as they will be able to work faster while maintaining the various child-rearing allowances. The maximum gross amount of the gyed rose from HUF 102 900 to HUF 155 thousand. In the case of your graduate, we have seen an increase of 20-30,000 forints in recent years. Newer types of institutions have been created for families who want to have their children in a nursery, as they also have a mini-cradle, a family nursery and a nursery at work from 1 January next year, with very strong state support. The amount spent on children's meals increased from HUF 29 billion to HUF 74 billion between 2010-17. This is a two-and-a-half-fold increase, ensuring healthy food for children every day in kindergartens, schools and nurserys. Not only has the number of beneficiaries increased by hundreds of thousands, but the amount of money that can be spent for one day has also been increased, precisely so that children can receive healthier food and those who go to school and kindergarten from the age of three should not be prevented from learning if they do not get enough and quality food at home. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2016-10-17-161	Thank you very much. The rejoinder shall be granted to the congresswoman.
u2016-10-17-162	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, In a few minutes, it is very difficult to summarise the measures taken by the Fidesz-KDNP governments since 2010 to ensure that the welfare of families and the care of children and the improvement of the child's disadvantaged situation can be fully achieved. However, what Mr Secretary of State has not been able to say in the absence of time is worth noting how much more money has been spent on children's meals in recent years since 2010. In 2010, a total of HUF 29 billion was spent in the last socialist budget, which we have already doubled so much - even more than double - that we have accepted this year's HUF 72 billion and next year's HUF 74 billion for this purpose. Thank you for the measures that the Ministry has taken to this end, and we would like this to continue. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2016-10-17-163	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, [[Bence Rétvári wishes to speak.]] Nándor Gúr... I'm sorry. We'll hear the rejoinder from the Secretary of State in a minute.
u2016-10-17-164	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, There was another major philosophical shift in the government's operation. We have been trying to make more and more support for families that this should be subject to the right not to be a social support, not only for those who are among the most difficult families, but also for everyone who has a child, to be guaranteed that neither the provision of children's meals nor the provision of textbooks should be subject to expenditure, as the state will surely pay for these costs. And obviously, we have tried to support even more those who take on jobs and have children, because the proportion of different family allowances that are tied to work has increased from 25 percent to 51 percent. So those who work can receive much more support, so we are confident that we can support both goals, greater employment and greater childbearing. For those who chose both, the discounts are much greater now than they were six years ago. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2016-10-17-165	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Nándor Gúr, a representative of the MSZP, wants to ask the Minister of Human Resources an immediate question:, Why have doctors been tricked with the promise of false pay? It's an address. The Minister appointed Mr Bence Rétvári Secretary of State to respond to an urgent public task. I'm asking you if you'll accept the response.
u2016-10-17-166	Secretary of State Bence Rétvári, of course.
u2016-10-17-167	Thank you very much. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2016-10-17-168	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Third - world conditions prevail in several hospitals where doctors, nurses, and patients work together to survive. Secretary of State, specific situations, specific situations, I can only mention these in the headlines: after inspections, co-ed placement, infusion on the coat rack, near an emergency room, there is no access to water for the patients to be provided, few and you know, loaded medical staff. Healing should be addressed, but even after the on-call, doctors continue to carry out this activity with decrepit decency. The waiting benches are lying here and there, sick, vomiting on the floor, and I don't want to stick to the story anymore. That's what you have to deal with when you're inside the hospital. And what do you do? What are you going to do about it or all this? They don't appreciate doctors, nurses, or those who fight for our lives and health. They don't appreciate it because they're being deceived. They've been tricked in the last few days, weeks. You know, they talk about raises, and as an example, interns lose 150,000 HUF scholarships while receiving a salary increase of 107,000 HUF. Minus 43 thousand forints, you can now say that, of course, we will put the mistakes in place; of course, if the opposition, the media notice, they will put them in place, otherwise they will deceive people. But the emergency workers were worse off, the emergency professionals. They protect their money by actually stealing it from them. Paychecks confirm that. They raise the salary by reducing it. Shouldn't we be doing something about it? Shouldn't we take action to prevent doctors and nurses from leaving this country? Isn't that how they're supposed to work? Mr. President, thank you very much.
u2016-10-17-169	I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári.
u2016-10-17-170	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, It is quite simple to draw a distinction between the health policy of your governance and the health policy of our governance, because in your time the number of emigration doctors and nurses has increased year after year; fortunately, the number of people asking for permission to work abroad is now decreasing year after year. You have reduced the amount of the Health Insurance Fund from HUF 1700 billion to HUF 1500 billion, and we have increased it from HUF 1500 billion in the next year's budget to HUF 2000 billion. [[14.40]] You introduced a visitation fee and a hospital allowance, in exchange for hospital safes. We have abolished these in a referendum with the electorate in unity with them. You took one month's wages from all healthcare workers in 2008. They called from Brussels to tell you that healthcare workers are making too much money, too much pension for pensioners, take it away. Ferenc Gyurcsány and Gordon Bajnai presented this amendment at that moment, and you, socialist Members, voted in favour of this because you were not interested in the national interest, but also in the field of health. Their main goal was privatisation. Compared to this, we tried to develop for 500 billion forints, of which 104 billion forints for the development of medical instruments and 320 billion forints for the development of hospital buildings. We were able to do this mainly in the country. You abandoned health care in 2010 with a debt of HUF 1200 billion for the municipalities, with the social and educational sector, which had to be paid, among other things, for health institutions. On the other hand, we have decided to spend much more money on health care. Next year, we will spend about HUF 81 billion more on wages in health care. We have already spent 75 billion in a wage increase once in 2012-13, but now the wages for doctors have increased by 107 thousand forints, and the doctors have already received this, and next year with an extra 100 thousand forints. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] If someone doesn't get this plus because of individual cases, they should report to us, and we will solve all the situations, because everyone will get paid in health care this year and next year. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-10-17-171	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Congressman Nándor Gúr will take the floor in a minute.
u2016-10-17-172	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, it's unnecessary. There's no point in doing what you're doing because the situation speaks for itself. The conditions of which I have outlined only a fraction in Parliament are the mirror of reality and reality. You've been robbing, robbing health care, not making extra money for health, but taking money out of health care instead of extra resources. Whatever you may say, these factual figures amount to hundreds of billions of HUF. You know, the tools that came under the heading of development can't even be operated. So you'd have to stand up for what you're saying. You don't have to lie, Mr. Secretary. No! You don't have to steal money from doctors' pockets, no! For what you have promised, you must endure, you must give. You know, it's not the inventor, party baron, helicopter people who need to get rich, it's these doctors who are fighting for our health that have to pay decent wages. But not by taking money from him under previous contracts. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2016-10-17-173	Thank you, Congressman. You have a one-minute rejoinder, Mr. Secretary.
u2016-10-17-174	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. It is very fortunate that a hundred years ago strong walls were built for this building, I believe, when we hear the socialists speak in the field of health. Honourable Congressman, Just so we're clear, you took $8.3 per cent of a month's wages from every health worker. In 2012-13 we increased 27 percent, from 1 September this year we increased by 107 thousand forints. This is the basic wage, the mobile rent element increases in the same proportion. Next year it will grow by another 100,000 forints. That's a total of 207 thousand forints. It's an amount that doctors and others can feel on their salaries. The kind of growth you didn't stop, you did exactly the reverse: you took your wages. Then they stand up here and say that the government will only increase the salaries of doctors and specialists in hospitals by HUF 207,000 in two years, and that is not enough. Honourable Congressman, You, who have taken the salary, do not talk about a small increase of HUF 207,000 in the case of doctors! [[Nándor Gúr: So why are the interns' money less? Talk about that. The president's ringing the bell. Applause in the pro-government benches. Nándor Gúr: You're messing with my head!]]
u2016-10-17-175	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Dóra Dúró, Member of the Jobbik, wants to ask the Minister of State at the Prime Minister's office an immediate question, "When are we going to clear the air?" It's an address. Congresswoman Dóra Dúró has the floor.
u2016-10-17-176	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Minister, In last week's government briefing, you said that you knew about two politicians who have also published their wives' property statements since 2006: Viktor Orbán and you. [[János Lázár: Before 2010.]] He said that since 2006, he has known about two politicians who have made this public. I would like to inform the Minister that the representatives of Jobbik have also made public, without exception, in the last two years, the declaration of the property of our family members in the same household. In addition, Antal Rogán, a group leader, said that he had promised that the Fidesz Group would prepare a legislative package on asset declarations by spring 2015. Looks like the cabbage was entrusted to the goat, because this property declaration bill wasn't prepared. At the time, Antal Rogán also told the Index that this would include the fact that not only Members would be required to make declarations of assets, but all members of the political elite. In addition, it did not exclude the possibility that the property declaration of the relatives would be made public. We agree with all of them, but this proposal has not been submitted. We have now presented a bill to the House, which includes, among other things, these. In addition, I must draw attention to the fact that Article XXI An electronic declaration of assets would be expected from a Member of Parliament in the first century. I ask you, Minister, to justify why in 2016 there is a better system for filling out a manual declaration of assets than an electronic declaration of assets system? Why don't you think it's justified? Since the bill has not been submitted, why do they not consider it appropriate to make it public to relatives, and why do they not consider it justified, for example, for government commissioners, prime ministers and ministerial commissioners to make public declarations? I look forward to your substantive answer. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2016-10-17-177	Thank you very much. I give the floor to Minister János Lázár.
u2016-10-17-178	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and My comment, which I made on the government briefing, concerned the ten years between 2000 and 2010. Of course, I appreciate what Jobbik's representative did to their relatives. I note here that the difference of opinion between us on the assessment of the declaration of assets may have developed and remained, because before the Fidesz Presidency made a decision to submit a bill or not, it is no secret, as we have shared this with several fellow Members that we have conducted a very thorough international investigation - the material I would be happy to make available - what is international practice. [[Attila Móring József takes his place in the notary seat.]] I can report to you: Hungarian property declaration practice is one of the strictest in Europe, and I will also include the United States of America's asset declaration practice. [[Dr. Gábor Staudt: How are the others?]] This means, in particular, that the circle of those who are obliged to make a declaration of assets, who should be made a declaration of assets: there are few countries where so much is needed for everyone. There are very few countries, Congresswoman, where relatives must make declarations of property at all. There's no such thing as having to be made public by the family member, there's no such country. I would like to remind you that, in the oldest democracies, Members also make a declaration of wealth with far less content, that in a large part of the cases, relatives do not need to make a declaration of wealth, and that there is no such thing as disclosure, given that it is obvious that in a country where capital formation has a tradition of centuries, it can easily happen - and the legislator, of course - that the property of the family members has nothing to do with the political activity or property of the spouse. I will also make the comment, Congresswoman, and I do not want to make an argument that I can only express my opinion as a Member of Parliament, because this is a matter for Parliament. The Parliament regulates the property declaration of Members of Parliament, not the government. The government hasn't even made a suggestion on this case yet. Fidesz did not make any new proposals because the current regulation is one of Europe's most stringent regulations. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-10-17-179	Thank you, Minister. I give the floor to the congresswoman in return.
u2016-10-17-180	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Minister, I took the liberty of asking you a question because you were the one on the government brief, the one who spoke about it, so I asked the immediate question. He mentioned a number of international examples and international comparisons. I believe that the primary issue in legislation is what we need to ask, what is good regulation, regardless of what we are now finding in other international examples. If the situation in Hungary is based on public trust in Hungary and the treatment of public funds in Hungary, then I see that it is justified that the property declaration of the spouses and relatives should also be made public because in Hungary the practice - we have seen a number of examples of this in recent years - is that members of the family are also putting on the names of close relatives a fortune that is actually their property, precisely because it is not public; and this gives them the opportunity to hide illegally acquired assets from the public. In addition, there has been an example that Members have changed their declarations of assets in the meantime and that they have modified them, have not been mentioned, and that Antal Rogán, for example, has been amended. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] He supplemented his declaration of assets by adding that it was not an asset acquired in the meantime, but was also available to him at the time when he made his virtually false declaration of assets. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik. Dr. László Varga: His apartment has grown. János Lázár: Not public.]] [[14.50]]
u2016-10-17-181	Thank you very much. The rejoinder is also due to the Minister.
u2016-10-17-182	It's not public. The Lithuanians alone are the only ones who have this possibility, Member, but otherwise there is no country where it would be public. You're welcome to check it out. We've done a thorough study. I mean... [[Interview from Jobbik's benches: Let's get started.]] Yes, of course, it would be possible to begin if the Curia allowed this, but you must know, Congressman, and you know very well that several people in Hungary have gone to court to ask for family declarations, and the Curia has refused to do so. I'm not going to tell you a big secret that, in my opinion, it would be a serious constitutional violation and a violation of the law if any of your family's assets were to be disclosed without your consent. On the other hand, Congresswoman, what you're saying is that you'd hide property in the name of a man with a property declaration. [[Adam Mirkóczki: Not Public!]] The people you're talking about are subject to a declaration of property, to whom you must give a credible statement of your assets. How smart is a man who hides property in the name of a family member who is liable for a declaration of property? Congresswoman! [[Adam Mirkóczki: Many, for it is not public.]] Don't joke about it. [[Dr. Gábor Staudt: It works, John, it works! Applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2016-10-17-183	Thank you very much, Minister. Dear Parliament, László Földi, a representative of KDNP, wants to ask the Minister of Agriculture an immediate question:. By what means does the government help wine producers? It's an address. The Minister has appointed Mr István Nagy State Secretary for his reply. I ask the Member if he accepts the person who is responding. [[On the mark of László Földi:]] It says yes. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2016-10-17-184	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, The Hungarian wine sector is successful, there are more and more Hungarian wines on the domestic shelves, and Hungarian wine can expect such recognition abroad as well. In Hungary, 22 wine regions are cultivated on about 80,000 hectares, so the wine-wine sector ensures the livelihood of many families. It's been known for a long time that good quality is the best commercial. Nevertheless, demand-enhancing actions are needed both to increase domestic demand and to widen exports. [[Adam Mirkóczki: You convinced us! Defiance from the Jobbik benches.]] For example, the National Wine Excellentness + Tasting Program, in which students of wine schools supervised by the Ministry of Agriculture help consumers choose. Of course, we must not forget to maintain and improve quality on a continuous basis. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] I am sure that the workers in the sector and the agricultural portfolio are doing a lot for this reason. Dear Secretary of State, [[The president's ringing again.]] In order to increase the competitiveness of wine as a traditional Hungarian drink and the further development of the sector, how does the government help wine and wine producers? I look forward to your reply, Secretary of State. [[Applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2016-10-17-185	Thank you, Congressman. I give the floor to Secretary of State István Nagy.
u2016-10-17-186	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, My dear fellow Member, I can confirm the Member's words: this year we can expect a good quality and a good amount of wine. On the basis of the preliminary crop estimate, we can expect some 2.7 million hectolitres of new wine. As in previous years, there was a strong demand for fragrant varieties. Due to the consistent application of the legislation by the authorities, significant imports of wine decreased by more than 50 percent between 2011 and 2014. The positive trend continues this year as well. There have been several news reports that the low quality Italian wines have been detained at the border and have been subject to administrative barriers, precisely in order to protect the Hungarian market and the interests of Hungarian wine producers. The Hungarian wine sector must be built from several steps. The first step is, of course, production. The basis for production was first the design and installation of the appropriate varieties. For this, we have just opened the tender funds of some HUF 40 billion to help producers renew the plantation, change the variety so that they can produce wine with the most modern technology. This is the plantation system. The next step is to have the right professional background, the right professional knowledge, for the wine sector itself. To do this, we had to support cellars and the development of vine processing tools, for which there are now open applications, and which can be used by all vine farmers, all wine producers. And, of course, there is a third pillar, which is also very important, the right market access and the protection of the market. Market access, I believe, is supported by several marketing tools by the government [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] and the Ministry of Agriculture, with which Hungarian wines are placed on the right shelves and the right [[The president's ringing again.]] We can put it on shelves. We'll keep going. Thank you very much.
u2016-10-17-187	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I give you the floor for rejoinder to Congressman László Földi.
u2016-10-17-188	Thank you for your answer, Mr. Secretary of State. I think it is very important - I live primarily in the Lowland wine region, I know these things there - I know how much the local winemakers struggle and how they try to develop their own economy, both production, plantation growth and plantation selection and variety exchanges. I think it is very important that applications that have been published in this sector or will appear either in the agricultural purse or in the rural development purse, and I hope that the wine-growing winemakers will take advantage of this opportunity. Thank you, Mr. Secretary. [[Applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2016-10-17-189	Thank you very much. I give the floor to Secretary of State István Nagy in return.
u2016-10-17-190	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. I would like to continue, because the next pillar is to reduce the administrative burdens in wineries that make their lives easier and facilitate market access. From the beginning of next year, most Hungarian wineries will feel the result of a serious administrative reduction. Wine producers below 1000 hectolitres may move to a small-scale wine-growing category to be exempted from the simplified tax warehouse obligation. At the same time, small farmers' administrative obligations will be further reduced by the agricultural portfolio. I hope that with all these effects we will be able to achieve that Hungarian winemakers and wine producers can be satisfied, produce increasingly high-quality wine, and that Hungarian consumers will be more inclined to reach for Hungarian wine on the shelves of the supermarkets, because they will be able to remove increasingly excellent and better quality wine from these shelves. I hope that this can be achieved as a result of our work together. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2016-10-17-191	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Mr. Sallai R. Benedek, representative of the LMP, wishes to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question, "How long will we last?" It's an address. The Prime Minister asked Minister János Lázár to respond to the urgent public task. I'm asking you if you'll accept the response. [[Sallai R. Benedek nodds.]] Yeah. You have the floor, Congressman Sallai R. Benedek.
u2016-10-17-192	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Minister, I would personally like to hear your opinion, if you do so, to answer me honestly, that, in your opinion, as a regent minister, as the minister in charge of the Prime Minister's Office, when a minister must leave his post. Is there any professional incompetence, human incompetence, or political incompetence when you say you must leave? Here is the example of two specific ministers. Antal Rogán. Because of real estate, he could still be mayor in District V. He could still be a faction leader because of the forgery of his asset statement. But what happened now was that he actually lied about the helicopter ride, denied it to the People's Liberty, and then, after the denial, they showed him a photo that he did, he threatened them with a lawsuit. [[Dr. István Apáti: What figures were they at the wedding! The color of the Szabolcsi underworld...]] But what he didn't do was say he was sorry or something, and then the limousine's driver gets put out as responsible, and he explains what happened. Obviously, it's a pretty inconvenient case. But it's not just about helicoptering, it's also about being done by a man who, at the time, was attacking the luxury left by the present one, and has since become a buddy of János Kóka for similar helicoptering. The political attack at that time seems to be happening again. And obviously, corruption issues are growing alongside it. There's the settlement bond thing. But if you look at what your political or professional competence is like, you've actually run a 17 billion-dollar campaign without a successful referendum. My other favorite is my own countryman, Minister Potter. Here, practically only at the level of a list: some public money was brokered - he got away with it. He got away with the elimination of the TIG. MVH, unauthorized demands - got away with it. Playground scandal,. Broker-- Marcsika--, Kiss Szilárd-- it's kind of tricky, but he got away with it. His buddy at the anthrax scandal fed children with dog meat - it looks like they got away with that, too. For rural development, he counted the market on Hold Street in the farm farm - he also got away with it. Now his constituency is loud from the abuse that comes from the public works programmes - his own Minister of Interior ordered back the public works payments in Abadszalok and Tiszabura - he seems to have escaped. [[15.00]] So much for his professional competence, he's been revealed by the FM. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] that the county of Hajdú-bihar and the county of Szolnok have a total of 30,000 sheep, compared to the real five times as much. I wonder when these people are suitable. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2016-10-17-193	Thank you very much. I give the floor to the Minister of the Prime Minister's Office, Mr János Lázár.
u2016-10-17-194	Thank you very much. Honourable Congressman, As a result of the constitutional arrangement in Hungary and the constitutional laws applicable to the government, the Prime Minister should have asked this question. In view of the fact that ministers are, of course, masters of their own destiny to a certain point, each minister must carry out his work according to his own conscience. [[That's the problem.]] and all ministers and those who have been ministers know exactly where the limit is for themselves, as long as they are able to do their job and where it is that they no longer undertake or feel that their professional vision is not fulfilled. I think that in the last 26 years, since there have been democratic elections, there have been many examples of this. It is worth asking the former ministers in Parliament why they resigned. As far as acquittal is concerned, this is the competence of the Prime Minister, and as far as I know, the Prime Minister trusts and relies on both of his ministers. As regards the political statements of individual ministers in this regard, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that Minister Antal Rogán has come to Parliament and said that he has made a mistake. Do politicians make mistakes? Yeah, they can make mistakes. Maybe you're not without a flaw. I think that the expectations, I would just like to note that the social expectations that opposition representatives regularly convey against the political class, regardless of party standing, are unrealistic because politicians are the same as society and are in the same state as the country, because the country chooses us, so we cannot be different, because we come from this country, and we belong to this country. The Hungarian political class is in about the same condition as Hungary. [[Applause in the pro-government benches. Complaining from Jobbik's ranks: Serious criticism!]]
u2016-10-17-195	Thank you very much. I give the floor to the congressman in return.
u2016-10-17-196	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I liked to say that every minister himself was considering what could be done, but I am talking about two people who, apparently, are willing to do everything, so there is nothing they can do that they can't do. Just to be interesting, our little warlord, dear Minister Csaba Hende, has gone for much less. A plagiarism scandal was enough for Paul Schmitt to leave. I didn't expect much from him at the time, but it was a step that was acceptable in this respect. Let me mention to you Minister Elemér Kiss, Minister of Chancellery Péter Medgyessy, who resigned in 2003 because it turned out that his law firm had received state orders! Well, was the MSZP government better than you? Shouldn't your ministers consider what they're doing? I have to tell you, the reason I don't like this thing is because in 2006, I used to hear Fidesz activists walk around town with a loud scream. [[Defiance and interruptions from Jobbik's ranks, among them. Ordibator...]] When they yelled, "The one who lies, the one who lies, the one who steals!" In 2006 after the autumn speech, this slogan went very, very far everywhere. It looks like they've either forgotten or they like to say it less, but they need it, I guess. Thank you for the floor, Mr President.
u2016-10-17-197	Thank you. The rejoinder is also due to the Minister.
u2016-10-17-198	Thank you very much. Dear fellow Member, I can say that in our political community there is strong solidarity in political matters, and all my fellow politicians know precisely that we are all behind it in their struggles and political struggles. However, as far as personal matters are concerned, everyone must stand up for himself. This means that when you attack any of my fellow politicians or fellow ministers, right or wrongless, with or without funds, my fellow ministers and fellow politicians must stand up for themselves. That's how it is when Roland Heaven is attacked or accused, so it is when Florian Wolf is attacked, or so is the case with Antal Rogán. We all need to be able to stand up for ourselves. It's a principle of belonging to Fidesz. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-10-17-199	Thank you very much, Minister. Dear Parliament, László Teleki, representative of the MSZP wants to ask the Minister of Human Resources an immediate question: - Has the discrimination of Roma in Hungary become systemic? It's an address. The Minister has appointed Secretary of State Bence Rétvári to answer. I'm asking you if you'll accept the response. [[For signal:]] He'll take it. Mr László Teleki has the floor.
u2016-10-17-200	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear Parliament, I am also asking this question because, in recent weeks, a committee of the Council of Europe has prepared a report. This was the reasoned opinion of this report, which was also published in the title. It is interesting because we also agree with the expression that discrimination against Roma has become systemic, because in many cases it has been said that what we are talking about is tangible in education, housing and health care, but nothing is happening. Today, when we are talking about this on the global day of combating poverty, I would like to ask Mr Secretary of State what they want to do with the 110,000 Roma, Gypsy people who live in the Gypsy settlements and live in nearly 600-650 Gypsy settlements, and today, not only exclusion, but also their health status, employment status or educational situation are completely hopeless. On this basis, I think we should speak frankly about whether 110,000 people are able to do something or leave them on the side of the road, and they are not curious about what will happen to them, but what the various statistics say is that they die 10-12 years before the non-Roma in Hungary and wait for this period. So I think it is very important for you to go through or say a lot about this now, because you can't do what you've done over the past few years, trying to put this thing behind different statistics. Tell me honestly if there's anything you want to do to get rid of the gypsy settlements. Tell me honestly if you want to do something about your health situation. Tell me honestly if you want to do anything other than public employment for Roma entrepreneurs. I am not saying this as a collector's concept, it is the same with regard to poverty, because no distinction should be made between poor people and poor people, but those I am talking about are out there in gypsy farms in a situation that cannot be imagined in the third world today. Thank you very much.
u2016-10-17-201	Thank you, Congressman. I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári.
u2016-10-17-202	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, Over the past six years, there have been a number of measures that have tried to help Roma or non-Roma, whether in education or education, with children's homes and school programmes, regardless of their origin. In addition, all the training programmes, public work programmes, changes in the tax system and opportunities for job creation for Roma have brought their own positive results, as the number of people living in households with low labour intensity, this means that in two adults there are not two days to work, the proportion of these people has been reduced by half, from 45% to 27% for Roma. This is a very encouraging sign, I think, and the basis for what the Member has talked about here in Parliament a lot, we have also talked many times about it, so that we can help Roma, not Roma, with job creation and with a vision of the future. I think it is very important to have a compulsory pre-school from the age of 3 because it is precisely the 7-year-old disadvantage that a mandatory kindergarten from the age of 3 often occurs, and it is a year and a half difference in development between families who care more about the child and those who do not care more about the children. Here we can reduce these differences from the age of 3. I would add, by the way, that the National Basic Training Plan also lists the culture of Roma and Gypsies as the element appearing in the basic curriculum. With regard to the settlement programmes, you know, Mr President, that on 25 September 2015 a decision was issued to reach as many settlements as possible and to provide human and decent conditions and jobs in as many settlements as possible instead of housing conditions that do not meet the minimum human conditions. This has been greatly helped by the fact that we have provided state aid to the development of local equal opportunities programmes and have given no small amount of support - and I will continue from here. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-10-17-203	Thank you very much. Congressman Teleki has the floor.
u2016-10-17-204	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, I listened attentively, and I think they want to hide behind the administration again with this question. They've been steering for six years. In six years, they could have done a great deal, not on the equal opportunities programme, but on the basis of the government's measures, to systematically eliminate these gypsy settlements. I didn't ask for it, and I don't want it, because it's unreal that it's been resolved from day to day, but in six years, they could've shut down a lot of settlements, and they didn't do anything about it, and they can't see the results. That's why they let down people who live there, and that's why they're just trying to handle it with administration. I don't believe it, Mr Secretary of State, if I see in the budget lines the line where you deal with this issue, because then you really want to deal with this issue, but until then, you won't be in the budget. You can't be in the.17, but if you're not in the '18s or any of them, in that case, you don't want to deal with this question. Thank you.
u2016-10-17-205	Thank you, Congressman. Mr. Secretary of State is entitled to the rejoinder. [[15.10]]
u2016-10-17-206	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Honourable Congressman, Dear House, If you look through the annual development framework of the operational programme for the development of human resources, the EFOP, you will not see billions, but tens of billions, which serve precisely this purpose, and we hope that you will be able to serve it effectively, as we hope you will, with the result of previous resources. But I also think it is important that, if they talk about discrimination, they talk about segregation, that the government has also tried to do something about the legal side, including the public-law side, even by setting up a human rights task force, to prevent such situations from occurring. The fact that members of the Gypsies in Hungary are now represented here in Parliament at the level of their advocates is also, I think, extremely important. The Thematic Task Force on Roma or our values laid down in the Fundamental Law, which provides for specific measures for the government to carry out equal opportunities and social inclusion as a task, I think these are all important public-law constitutional safeguards to ensure that such reports never have a basis in the future in Hungary. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2016-10-17-207	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Time for immediate questioning is closed. The seventh amendment of Hungary's Fundamental Law follows a general debate to the conclusion. Government referral T/12458. is available on the parliamentary IT network. I would like to remind you that during the general debate, the opening speech was delivered by the author and the speeches by the lead speaker took place. I would ask Mr Attila Móring to explain the distribution of the remaining timeframe.
u2016-10-17-208	Dear Parliament, The remaining timeframe is divided into 157 minutes 26 seconds for the Fidesz Group, 114 minutes for the MSZP Group, 65 minutes 49 seconds for the KDNP Group, 82 minutes 55 seconds for the Jobbik Group, 35 minutes 19 seconds for the LMP Group and 22 minutes for the independent Members.
u2016-10-17-209	Thank you, Mr. Notary. Dear Parliament, The further speeches will now take place in the remaining timeframes. First I give the floor to the Members who have applied in advance in writing, first I give the floor to Mrs Mátrai Márta, Fidesz Group.
u2016-10-17-210	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, The Fundamental Law of Hungary is a solid foundation of the principles of our life and cooperation. The Fundamental Law was created by the Parliament, and we have recorded our protected values and the framework of our conduct in it as best we can. There was one thing that we could not record in it, the future, what would be waiting for us in the near future; at the time of the creation of the Fundamental Law, we could not have thought that we should also make provision that no foreign population could be installed in Hungary against our will. The secrets of the future are unknown to mortal man, and our responsibility lies in whether we can change and change as life requires of us. Everyone can see that the country has changed significantly since the adoption of the new Fundamental Law in 2011, and Hungary has successfully recovered in recent years, but in the meantime new threats and new problems outside the world and around us have emerged. It would be irresponsible if we didn't appreciate and understand these changes, and it would be even more irresponsible if we understood them, but didn't do anything about it. This concern about the future is now being embodied in the amendment of the basic law setting the limits of the introduction. The concern for the nation is the experience of the unbroken struggle that our ancestors conducted for the survival of the Hungarian people. We Christian-Conservatives feel the responsibility for the survival of the Hungarian nation, which comes from respecting the efforts of the past to preserve the nation, and we have a responsibility to preserve the Hungarians as a national community. This responsibility has been recorded in the Fundamental Law and the National Creed of the Fundamental Law, in which, according to the current amendment, the protection of our constitutional identity is a fundamental duty of the State. Our past will also help us to consider the decision. The Hungarian people have overwhelming historical experiences about mass resettlement, so they are clearly cautious about this issue. The Hungarian nation has been an inclusive nation for centuries, and after the bleeding of the history of the Hungarian ruling class, it has allowed many peoples to settle in the protected areas of the country. The experience remains that when the residents become many, new powers are born, and in the inhabited area the survival of Hungarian life and customs is limited. In other words, they advocate the disappearance of Hungarian life rather than the preservation of it. However, there are those who ask why the Fundamental Law is being amended now. The answer is absolutely clear to us: the Hungarian government has been constantly confident that there will be a European solution, which manages mass resettlement on the basis of common rules agreed to protect European identity, without the need to amend the Hungarian Fundamental Law. However, we had to admit that there was no such solution. The plan is to relocate the needy population from overpopulated areas in Asia, Africa and the Middle East to Europe, and to keep European people in control of social organisation, because this is a convenient solution, which we think is a bad idea. This process can lead to the failure of our European existence, because European people will become weak, powerless and defenceless. This includes the fact that hundreds of thousands of talented young people in Europe are preparing to work in the European area, and we have no reason to deny them the contribution they have made to their lives. The plan to transform our thousands of years of suffering, our culture, our customs according to the needs of residents is also a bad solution, as there is no stated upper limit to resettlement in the European compulsory distribution system for immigrants. There is no safe border protection, but rather support for mass resettlement, so the Hungarian government has taken steps to protect European values in Hungary itself. However, there are those who claim that EU law only designates Member States for the examination of asylum applications, but this includes resettlement, residence on the ground pending the examination of asylum applications and reception or expulsion. However, this procedure does not work in any country in Europe, and even unauthorized asylum seekers cannot be virtually sent back to their country because either there is a lack of responsiveness or asylum seekers disappear from the eyes of the determining authorities. Today's experience shows that asylum seekers can travel wherever they want in a free European area. Dear Parliament, Our further argument, in addition to the seventh amendment of the Fundamental Law, is that the Hungarian society sees the potential consequences of resettlement and, following a referendum, has given support to the protection against forced resettlement. This argument follows from the uniform electoral behaviour of the referendum. More than three million politically conscious voters have given us the task of rejecting the compulsory resettlement quota. The Hungarian Parliament can do nothing but discuss this decision and take into account the will of the citizens; the will of the more than 3 million 300 thousand conscious voters cannot be ignored. Although there are European countries where even a valid referendum decision is ignored, Hungary is not like this. Every referendum we have held over the last decades has brought about a change in the country's order and the country's operation. [[15.20]] The Fundamental Law is a guide to our lives, but it is not more important than the life of the country itself, so it can be modified and supplemented by all its movements and all its provisions over which time has passed. It is impossible to expect the country's basic rules to remain unchanged, while the changing world around it demands this change. This also applies to the letters of the Fundamental Law. However, there is also a question of what level of will society is needed for this amendment of the Fundamental Law. It would be best if the members of the Hungarian Parliament adopted this amendment of the Fundamental Law in a will unit. This is a matter that affects the whole Hungarian community, not only today, but also in the future. If we are wrong about that now, we will not be able to correct our error later. This threat is now being recognised by other countries in Europe, which is why the Prime Minister has exceptionally invited the representatives of the parliamentary parties to consult on this issue. Ladies and gentlemen, The amendment of the Fundamental Law before us transcends political commitment and transcends parliamentary status, and can only be understood from the point of view of the responsibility for the nation. This is an exceptional opportunity for the community of fate to defend the Hungarian nation. The coming of our decision will not preserve parties, not persons, or speeches, they will write in the chronicles who wanted to be introduced without the consent of the Hungarian State, while those who raised their voice against it will. In terms of liability, this is consistent with the consequences of a referendum on dual citizenship. Unfortunately, we do not have the opportunity to take stock of good European examples here. In many places, attachment to home, without interest in home, is an incomprehensible civic behaviour, so we need to take new paths and build our future through our own experience. Our heritage is what Gergely Bornemissza says in preparation for the protection of the Eger castle. I quote: "You know that it is a great and sacred thing to protect your country, just like when your mother is protected by your child. That's not what a Violin Lieutenant will understand then or today. This amendment of the basic law seeks only to remedy the social-forming errors of the global world order and the ill-advised problems caused by politicians who do not recognize the consequences of the changes where possible. Among the peoples united in Europe, the Constitution is an exceptional rule because it is essentially above the European Union's legislative order. No European decision has been taken to override the basis of national constitutions, rules on territorial unity, population and state form of the country, the right to provide for state settlement in order to create some kind of uniform constitutional order. It would be unthinkable for any body of the European Union to change the territory or state form of the country, which is part of our constitutional identity. It was possible to adopt a European constitution, but it was rejected by a number of Member States at the time, so that the primacy of the substance of the national constitution remains, followed by the provisions of European law in which we took responsibility for the joint decision. Ladies and gentlemen, The proposed amendment to the Fundamental Law is about the responsibility for the future. I trust that the concerns of Hungarian voters will be heard, and we expect the support of all Members regardless of party standing. Please support the seventh amendment of the Fundamental Law. Thank you very much for your attention. Thank you, Mr. President. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-10-17-211	Thank you, Mrs Mátrai, for your speech. The next scheduled speaker is Mr Mirkóczki, Member of the Council, Jobbik.
u2016-10-17-212	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to briefly respond to some of the speeches that have already been made, and I would like to start with the most recent one, with the speech of our fellow Member, Mátrai. There was, however, a saying that struck my ears for a moment, in particular, when, on the whole of immigrants, it was somehow said that the population that had become redundant on the spot in their homeland. I think that saying this proves one thing, that we are not aware of exactly the background processes and political mechanisms that cause this amazing population flood, but to say it either on a Syrian or on an Afghan or on anyone from which it starts to become redundant on the spot, I am sorry, but it is a high school of dilettantism. There is a reason for everything, and, of course, I am not saying that you have to let it in here uncontrollably or anywhere else, it is not about that, but I am saying that it is at least as important to ask the question of what is causing these huge and global problems as a zero step in front of the current answers. If we look at this issue, then we cannot go beyond who has what responsibility, whether it is the current Hungarian government, whether it is the leadership of the European Union or the leadership of our alliances, especially NATO, which have a very direct and indirect role to play in the development of these crisis zones in the world, and in light of this, let us look at the responsibility of the Hungarian political elite. [[László Földi takes his place in the notary seat.]] If I were to look for responses or condemnations from the Hungarian government or from the Hungarian diplomacy of international military and other political actions which, by the way, have contributed greatly to the development or escalation of these focal points, I would be in enough trouble, because I have not heard either the official position of the Hungarian Foreign Minister or any of the Hungarian Diplomats about what the West is doing in the Middle East or in some regions of Asia or even in certain regions of Africa. I can already hear very much how we translate this into internal political capital, or how the government is trying to convert these consequences into internal political capital, but whether we have any responsibility for this, we hear very little about it. And when the lead speaker or keynote speaker of the KDNP holds high speeches on the protection of Christendom, I would like to repeat my sentences that I have already said in the debate on the Hungarian military contingent against ISIS that they should not come with such a perverse - and I'm sorry, Czechoslovak - language when they use it simply and in a context where they do not have a sane argument for something or something. If you are talking about the protection of Christendom, do so consistently. When the Islamic State does what we know and is condemned, let it be against Christians, against Muslims, against Hindus or against anyone, but you are silent when Boko Haram slaughters Christians in Africa, by the way. Why don't they want to send soldiers there? I say this example, of course, because you are inconsistent and not only inconsistent, but also dilettants, and you do not dare to take responsibility for what you are doing either tacitly or intentionally, namely, that without bone and without any counter-opinion or minimal criticism, you take advantage of the orders dictated by the West, I do not know, commands or obey these commands. And if we're talking about Christianity and Christian Democratic education, I'd be responding in one sentence for the last six years. Be equally sensitive to Christian commandments when it comes to their own political responsibility. I would recommend only two commandments, the seventh and the eighth, not only to KDNP, but also to Fidesz, namely, not to steal and not to lie. [[15.30]] These two; if we could get here at least on a minimum level, they would be happier not only for you, but also for the country. And if we are talking about responsibility, I would like - if we were really serious and sincere about how we should bear our fellow human beings and our role, not only here in Hungary, not only in relation to the domestic political activities of the Hungarian government, but also in the European Union or even in other continents at a global level - to bear this responsibility for ourselves even when we are involved in mental-terror actions outside those already mentioned, whether in Afghanistan, Iraq, Syria or in Africa, which contribute to these blissful conditions, so that crowds start and arrive uncontrolled in different countries or continents. Europe is now the subject of this suffering. But if it's only important now, then your credibility and competence have, of course, been compromised. If we want to defend the country consistently, if we are alarmed by uncontrolled masses, and I add that we are afraid of uncontrolled immigrants for a reason, because criminal organisations, terrorists and who knows who is obviously using it, then let's also talk about uncontrolled settlement bonds. 'Cause that's exactly what you're saying, you can come for money. Do not tell me that the person who applies for a settlement policy is going through a control of four, because at the closed meeting of the National Security Committee - I will put it mildly - it has not been possible to convince any opposition representatives that these controls are 100% and everyone can sit back, because among those who bought a settlement policy in Hungary there is certainly no misguided or dubious element. I would like to draw your attention to only one name, who has bought a settlement policy so far as to reach the Prime Minister's family, this Gait Faraon, who, to this day, cannot be told that this is the Faraon who, for years, was on the top 10 of the FBI, who was also wanted in France, and who financed the terrorists associated with Al-Qaeda. The answer is how much money he has made for Hungary, and how good it is for us. Well, congratulations. Maybe it's good for you, but let's just say that all the arguments you've made here for immigrants in general are untrue. When we talk about responsibility, they also consider that on 27 August, Viktor Orbán spoke about the need to set up a European common army, and then a few days later Zsolt Németh did the same. Do you really believe that if an army of the European Union, a large common army of the European Union, will be the solution to everything? Well, with regard to NATO and precisely the various international alliances, we should finally learn and draw conclusions from the fact that in these alliances Hungarian interest enforcement is so minimal that it practically doesn't exist, but we obey all orders without remuneration. And precisely such international alliances are the cause of the crisis zones in the world that almost Hungary is the first to drink due to its geopolitical situation. The same applies to joint European secret services. Recently, various actors from the Ministry of Interior have made reference to the fact that this is necessary. I would like to refer here to an earlier position of the Ministry of the Interior, with which I deeply agree, namely that the secret service, especially intelligence, especially counterintelligence, can only operate on a national basis, since all the allies within the alliance are already opposed to each other. If we expect such lonzunges to solve the solution in the medium and long term, it will result in escalation of the problems, not taking a step towards the solution, but all the more we deepen the problems and the tasks that are already unsolvable to us. I, in total and in one sentence, conclude what I have said: I ask you for more responsibility and more consistency. Take the example of Jobbik in the sense that what we said two years ago or eight years ago is still being held, and especially when it comes to a national issue of fate, we are the ones who are not doing party politics, but, without asking, we are voluntarily doing what we believe a nation and a country expect us to do. That's all I ask of you. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2016-10-17-213	Thank you, Congressman. The next announced speaker was Mr János Harghitai, Member of the Christian Democratic People's Party.
u2016-10-17-214	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, The first question that can be asked about the amendment of the Fundamental Law is whether or not it is justified to make this amendment to the Fundamental Law. I think that those argumenters who say that during the referendum, when more than 3.3 million politically active people spoke in one direction, we know that they were not simply the voters of Fidesz and KDNP, but a much larger community, and that the will of this community, of this larger unity, should be recorded politically in itself, if not, but also in the Fundamental Law. My other argument is that this is a matter of fate that we are talking about here. It does not take much fortune to say that one of the greatest challenges of the coming years or decades is how the world deals with migration and immigration. And since it is a matter of fate, its basic rules are settled in constitutions or basic laws. What is it that we aim for in the specific amendment? We'd be touching the Fundamental Law in four places. We're about to put an important sentence in the National Creed. We believe that the protection of our constitutional identity, which is rooted in a historical constitution, is a fundamental obligation of the state. When we reach into the chapter of the National Creed, we must not just think about a national declaration, a solemn revelation. This declaration is an integral part of the Fundamental Law and is also applicable in everyday legislation or in court practice. The following is what we intend to amend, the sovereignty clause, which is Article E (2) of the Fundamental Law. This is briefly about exercising our sovereignty powers together with other Member States within the Union. There was a clause in this passage when we said to the extent necessary. In fact, what is necessary has not been given any substance so far, now the necessary measure is enriched with some important statements. And we're going to record what the necessary measure can't hurt. We would further state that the exercise of competence under this paragraph must be in line with the fundamental rights enshrined in the Fundamental Law - this is one of the changes - and here comes the very important things from the point of view of our topic, that freedom should also not restrict our inalienable right of disposal regarding Hungary's territorial unity, population, state form and state settlement. We would also note in a next article that the protection of Hungary's constitutional identity is the duty of every body of the state. In the fourth article - perhaps one of the most important ones - we would note that a foreign population cannot be deployed to Hungary. There is a debate in the political public opinion on whether the definition of a foreign population is accurate. I think it is perfect, because the second sentence explains what the legislator is thinking: he sees everyone as a foreign population, except the citizens of the countries of the European economic area. We can describe this in other ways, but I think that we will not be able to define it more accurately. And this item, which we have just brought to Parliament, also states that it can only be decided in the procedure governed by the law laid down by Parliament, so it is obviously a matter of parliament. And the Fundamental Law also states that only Hungarian authorities can decide on these issues on the basis of individual criticism. [[15.40]] That is what our amendment to the Constitution is about. I had a statement that it was a matter of fate, and besides the political reason, rationality simply wants the Fundamental Law to address these issues. I would like to say a few words here briefly, in the second part of what I have to say about the practice of the European Court of Justice. This is what Minister spoke about when he spoke here in the morning's debate, and in the case of the European Court of Justice he spoke of a form of stealth procedure referring to an ultra-vires procedure. I would also like to point out here that it is a very beloved practice of the institutions of the European Union, but also of the European Court of Justice. I could also say that at some point there was no European Community law on human rights issues or fundamental rights protection in any way, since that is not what it was meant to do. Yet today, such issues are included in the Treaty of the European Union. These were entered into the Treaty by examining the constitutional traditions of the Member States on a case-by-case basis and then making decisions. These decisions were later incorporated into the Treaty of the European Union. Stauder case,, 69, Internationale Handesgesellschaft case 1970, Nold case 73, Solange case I. 1974, then Solange II. 1986. I don't have time to explain. Something tells me that the same can be expected in the forums of the European Court of Justice on the subject where this court will manifest itself, what we mean by the constitutional traditions of the Member States, what we mean by the constitutional identity of the Member States. Because let's face it, so far, our Fundamental Law hasn't said anything about it, so now we're gonna record what we mean by that. There is a debate between us and the European Union before the Court of Justice of the European Union. They think in quotas, we think about constitutional identity. Again, I refer to what you said here this morning, and we know sad stories about what happened after World War II when we talked about evacuations, resettlements, or the exchange of populations, even though it would have been justified to talk about expulsions and abductions. Something like this is happening. We are povertying certain concepts, and behind the impoverished concepts, some of the European Union's dominant personalities or dominant thinkers want to achieve things that are not in our interest in any way. Therefore, this stealthy legislation, I think, must also be limited by our statements in the Constitution. And I think that our example can also be a precedent from this point of view, if that is what other Member States are doing, as the Constitutional Courts in the Member States have already taken such decisions, then we can also defend this issue in European legal forums and make it a success. This is in our interest and we therefore support the amendment of the Fundamental Law. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-10-17-215	Thank you, Congressman. He announced his intention to speak in advance, Congressman Sallai R. Benedek.
u2016-10-17-216	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Parliament, I've been taking notes here all morning to make myself look prepared, and to make it look like I've listened carefully to all the arguments you've made. But it's really hard to talk about it this way, because while they're talking about resettlement, and I'm going on the road to the Gyrososos Szerai, and two fidesz congressmen have pepper spicy sauce on their chins, they're eating gyros from Muslims who've settled in - and they're talking here. [[Defiance and interruptions in the ranks of Jobbik and Fidesz. The president's ringing the bell.]] Obviously, the mood of this is fundamentally affecting my opinion on how to judge their position in all of this. I'd like to make one point first. I very much hope that this has come out of the lead speakerial circle that the May Other Politics supports the goal to be achieved, considers it an important objective to strengthen Hungary's national sovereignty, strengthen the protection of Hungary's borders, and, in practice, to defend the Hungarian Parliament against bureaucratic abuses, to insist that the Hungarian Parliament should determine what happens to the country for a primary purpose in the territory of Hungary. So with this aim, which is being formulated, I think it is possible to agree, and as an opposition representative, I say that the direction that we need to develop this is welcome. But the question is whether this is really for this purpose. 'Cause then let's see what this circus is all about. I'm going through the lead speaker's lap. Mr. Kósa Group Leader began by saying that it is always an exceptional moment to negotiate the Fundamental Law. Well, it's not that exceptional, because it's slowly coming back here more than once a year again and again, this granite-solid Fundamental Law. You do not make it so exceptional that it is rarely possible to talk about the Fundamental Law. However, he does not say that they admit that they went the wrong way in 2011 and made a lot of mistakes, because we have never heard this before; it is always why the nation's cause is justified. After that, I liked it especially when Congressman Kósa said how important this number is, because it brings positive results, and how it appears in the Hungarian fairy tale world, in the Hungarian faith world. I looked immediately at him, who knew the Bible a little, and he knew that after the seven years, seven short years came. Breaking seven seals in the presence of the seven angels in the book of Revelation also brought no positive news. After that, they also know that there are seven of the main crimes, which is worth noting, because around Fidesz we have already found examples of almost all of them, and here was the Dunakes murder case, so now it is. However, this number of seven is not always positive and does not necessarily represent progress. Mr. Kósa says he doesn't know who they are, why they're coming here. But if they're paying Fidesz, how good is it? They pay Fidesz, it goes to a pun, so if they buy government bonds, sovereign debt or citizenship, they are much more supportive. These, of course, greatly contribute to judging the seriousness of Fidesz in this matter. He says no one can question political will. Yes, you can. Fidesz always questions how society judges it. A year ago, when we had to spend money on social consultation, we consulted society. They did not believe what the polls showed that there was a demand in Hungarian society, and it was not enough for you. Anyway, the point is, let's get the campaign going, let's spend money. After that, when the social consultation practically took place, and the direction was clear, and by the way, everyone with a little eye on the track knew the direction, but then they came up with a referendum, and then they were surprised that, according to all predictions, the result was what they expected, of course, with the difference that the referendum was not valid. So the Fidesz questioned him twice, and took twice the social action he wanted. And it was also my pleasure when Mr. Kósa's faction leader, pointing to the MSZP, began to mention the past of MSZMP. I think we always have fun with our better fellow Members when they compete with the MSZP on where there are more MSZMPs. If I were hiding agents III/II in the Undersecretary's faculty and they were MSZMPs among my ranks, I probably wouldn't throw pebbles in a greenhouse, but Congressman Kósa or Group Leader made that mistake just to give up this ball. And he thanked me for putting aside party politics. But you can't put it aside. Practically a political PR product is this referendum case, as they have made the fundamental law amendment a PR product, and it is very, very difficult to go along with it. Then I listened with interest to Mr Szájer, MEP. I always think, by the way, that if someone gets into Europe, they bring home a slightly more advanced, elevated political culture - but they don't. He also said without further ado in his speech that 40 percent of Hungary's population voted against. It's not that. It's who's entitled to a vote. It is not about knowing exactly what the majority of Hungarian society would support, so this is a strong slide. Europe does not seem to be able to improve this political culture either. You also said that there is no strategic debate about the fact that the situation offers steps and solutions. It is, in effect, odd because the urban legend believes that this Fundamental Law was born around on the laptop of Congressman Szájer, which is now proven to be inadequate for the seventh time and needs to be amended to make it fit for something to work. The fact that you're arguing so loud about it in this case is certainly strange. Well, my favorite was Congressman Soltes. I got it right away. Just this weekend, a friend of mine told me that a colleague named Bödőcs said that since the Semjéns were Christian Democrats, Mary's mother has not shed tears in Mary's Pócs, but weeps. I understood that right away. Practically, as he did his speech, it was immediately clear what this joke was about. Congressman Soltes started by assigning the MSZP that they do not participate in anything here, and they do not go to Parliament. There's a website called politicologist.hu, owned by one of the political analysts. I've watched Congressman Soltés hand out the MSZP with a big face. [[15.50]] The number of non-autonomous motions is zero, 199. The number of individual motions is 5 and 159 among all Members. The number of speeches in this cycle is 32, 123. If I showed these results, I probably wouldn't be educating an entire faction about where he is and doesn't go to work, because that's why I need a face at some level. [[Dr. Pál Völner: There are five of you!]] Then I say most of all, the one that pissed me off and let me be forgiven is the kind of demagogy that started to classify the various sexual acts of violence from the Union; it brought four to five examples. I really don't like the demagogue he did, so let me give you an example. I'm talking about the past period, I'm talking about the headlines from the newspapers in Hungary. He was dragged into the bushes and abused by the Debrecen attacker. The police are requesting the help of civilians to identify him. It was committed by a Hungarian citizen. A young man in his 20s was raped on Saturday at Bem Square in Debrecen. The Hajdú-bihari Diary reported. It was committed by Hungarian citizens. [[László Kucsák: Which agenda are you on?]] According to the paper, she was on her way home, but that's not important. A 13-year-old girl was raped with her mother's knowledge. This is an event in July. It was practically a 14-year-old girl. They couldn't find anyone in the facility where a girl was raped. . - September news. The Saturday police raid at the Galanta foster home was unsuccessful, where a girl was suspected of being raped. September 11th, 2016 The case has even horrified police circles, they're investigating a crime of sexual assault, but for now, there's no way to know who was capable of such horror. I was kidnapped and raped by a young girl in Pécs. That's what just happened. You can laugh in the KDNP lines, but all this was done by Hungarian people. I don't know, but I see that they want to keep it as a Hungarian monopoly, that Hungarian people can do such things, but if anyone does this internationally, they will come in here and talk about it. You know why that's interesting? That's because I've had the Istanbul agreement three times. My statement is that State Secretary Soltész is responsible for the rape of more Hungarian women than all migrants at the moment, as Secretary of State of EMMI and Prime Minister Viktor Orbán. That's the statement. [[Uproar, clearness in the pro-government benches.]] Because they're the ones who don't do anything. Here's the Istanbul agreement, it could have been ratified. But I'll tell you the facts for not doing anything. [[It's a lot of noise.]] Okay, I'm telling you. [[Dr. Vas Imre: You can't go any lower.]] Technically... [[It's constant noise. László Szászfalvi: Don't try to say anything bigger. Interview from Jobbik's benches: Bring them a gyros! The president's ringing the bell.]] If the KDNP fraction has calmed down [[The president's ringing the bell.]] I'll tell you the facts, just to make it clear. It's not just sexual assault. In 2015, 50 women died as a result of domestic violence in Hungary. The total forecasting and supply system is missing. According to research conducted in EU countries between 2011 and 13, according to NANE, Women for Women Together, between 2011 and 13, 28 percent of women in Hungary suffered physical violence by 1.2 million people, including 843,000 by their partners. Almost half of women, 49 percent, and 2 million have experienced psychological violence in relationships, while 9 percent and 362,000 have reported sexual violence. 9 percent of Hungarian women, 361 thousand women between the ages of 15 and 74, were sexually assaulted at some point in their lives by their partner or other part of Hungary. 6 percent, 223,622 women aged between 20 and 74 are currently in violent contact with Hungary. In Hungary, more than 35,000 girls were sexually assaulted before the age of 15. Doesn't that bother you? ! We will bring the budget amendments here to fix the forecasting system, the exploration system, and you will vote against it in any case. We're bringing the Istanbul agreement to ratify the country and look at it, but you don't want it. What is it that scares Hungarian society with something, but it is okay for you to have Hungarian citizens commit similar crimes in this proportion and with such statistical data. So what I regard as hypocrisy and demagoguery in the speech by Mr Soltés, Secretary of State, is obviously this, with which I am quite annoyed. But, by the way, let's look at KDNP, because I was wondering if you called on József Balogh, who once sat here in the faction when he assaulted his wife with aggravated assault. He received a fine of HUF 420 thousand and HUF 256 thousand, because that's how much you can break someone's cheekbones in Hungary within the family. So KDNP protested? I didn't really find one of these when the KDNP shut down. I couldn't find anything like that. The Istanbul Convention on effective action against violence against women has so far been signed by 39 Member States, 20 have ratified it, Hungary has acceded to the Convention since 14 March 2014, but it has not been transposed into Hungarian law. So much for KDP's speech and its professional arguments. I'd like to go to a higher level, because I'll tell you honestly, [[Noise in the pro-government benches. László Kucsák: We wish it to succeed!]] I was waiting for the Minister of Justice to speak. On Wikipedia, I found that he is a Hungarian lawyer, a lawyer, a habilitated teacher, a diplomat, a university professor, and in addition that his research fields are a question of comparative constitutional law, public law, public law, administrative justice and European public law, including national constitutional law and European integration. That's why I wanted to know what you thought. I'm really sorry he's not in there anymore. [[Dr. Pál Völner: You should have been here! Intercoms from the pro-government benches, among them: He told me!]] You could have answered some of my questions. I don't know why the KDNP is so excited, they don't come in any other time, and now they're getting hot, but I'll sort this out. [[Defiance. László Kucsák: You've been here for 15 minutes! The president's ringing the bell. Noise.]] My first professional question is that, after the Minister is not here, I do not know who, perhaps the Secretary of State or the Secretary of State, the Secretary of State responsible for the Cabinet communication, I would like to appeal to him for this. [[Intercoms: There's the Secretary of State!]] So what is it about the current amendment that has not yet come from the Fundamental Law? I have read his statement in this case to two constitutional judges, who clearly describe that so far, the practice of the Constitutional Court has consistently been to take these aspects into account, so there is no new element in the amendment. [[Dr. János Latorcai, vice-president of the Parliament, takes the chair.]] So can you answer the simple question: what will make it better? What is not guaranteed in the current legal system and will thus be achieved? It doesn't bring anything new. Also, the judge of the Constitution stated that it was practically nothing new. Another question, also very, very interesting, is your area of expertise, so really just convince me; they say that Hungary has a medium-sized Fundamental Law. Austria is a very, very detailed basic law, while in Western Europe they are much shorter and basically there is a basic law defining a framework. Why is this intermediate situation good when when someone has some kind of political PR idea, they can be put into it, and otherwise they don't want to follow the frameworks? This is important because you need to know as a professional, and I am just waiting for answers on how to establish a more secure rule of law. At the moment, the legal framework is adapted to the political position, not the political position that wants to keep the legislation. So if there is a political PR product, then the legislation automatically responds to it, the majority of lawyers react to it, and they think as lawyers that if they write something on paper, it will be a solution. But that hasn't worked out so far. We are partners with your objectives to strengthen Hungary's sovereignty. We're partners in protecting the border. We are partners in maintaining our right to self-determination at national level. But tell me this is the fundamental law amendment, apart from the fact that it's a political PR product, what good is it? Because virtually the person who spoke as a constitutional judge in this matter and can be reached on the Internet is making reservations. The question is that it would be a better country where the Constitution would be basically applied rather than used as a PR product. Perhaps the most important mistake of this amendment to the basic law, and once again I ask the lawyers' opinion that it does not explicitly, in a textual manner, exclude quotas. Let them show me what is the place of law in the amendment, and I have the whole, but I suppose the secretary of state has the place that specifically excludes the application of quotas. 'Cause that's not in there. So it is certainly strange that, on the basis of the quota vote, they are bringing in one that does not specifically address this problem. The introduction of the foreign population is prohibited and the concept of introduction is not clarified in its formula. What does that mean? It is a strange concept, because if you mean a lifestyle of residence around the time of resettlement, then you have the right to believe that if the introduction of a foreign population is prohibited and this Fundamental Law is adopted in association with Jobbik in x days, then the next day, if I understand it correctly, that civic government bond, or what it is called, is a citizen bond trade. 'Cause from here on out, if this goes into the Fundamental Law, it's gotta stop legally. Is that correct, Mr. Secretary? As soon as they accept it, they'll shut it down from the next day, withdraw it from Russia, Africa? It has the following meanings: alien populations are forbidden to be introduced. The introduction, as such, also applies to ourselves. [[Dr. Vas Imre: There is more!]] If this is a ban on a citizen's bond [[The president's ringing the bell.]] which appears in the Fundamental Law, the only good point that should be seen. [[Németh Szilárd István: If you don't understand why you're doing this! László Kucsák: Speaking for 20 minutes!]] Obviously, it is very important to address whether it is possible to interpret narrowly what they mean specifically by the external public-law formula. So does it only apply to the European Union or to everything else? In this connection, I would have been curious to hear the Minister's answers, but I will be satisfied with the Secretary of State, if you can give me a particularly reassuring answer. [[Dr. Pál Völner: Thank you.]] Prime Minister Viktor Orbán told us about the Kossuth quote: "The nation can sink back to nationality at any time, thus supporting his arguments. It's very, very interesting why this foreign control doesn't bother you when it comes to Putin, and why it bothers you if it comes from another direction. [[16.00]] The Possibly Other Politics wants to stand up so that we do not depend on Putin or Brussels, but it seems that you always want some kind of authority, and I am not reassured that Putin will be better than Brussels. Obviously, when you ask that the party points be set aside for a short period of time, so that foreign cultures cannot stand their feet in Hungary, the question arises: will Beloiannis be resettled to Greece? So what do they do with such settlements that were created earlier? Or are we both kunaks with my fellow Member Fazekas, and we'll have to go back to Kunland somewhere? So if it appears in the Fundamental Law, then how does this appear in the application; how will a review be made and labelled with such a small sign from here on out, that this gyros came from here and had Muslim religion, so there will be something of this retrospective effect? Obviously, when I get to this point in this thought, I need to talk about what is desirable, and perhaps instead of amending the basic law or making public relations constitutions, it could have been done. Once again, I am going back to what is well-known in the national media: basically, border guards need to protect our borders without a hot spot. Specifically, the soldiers serving there reveal that they can't build a fire because it disrupts the thermal cameras. There were always border patrols out there in the rain without a tarp under which they could get under. [[Németh Szilárd István: Soldiers. There's no sugar!]] They're not made of sugar... [[The president's ringing the bell.]] Yes, thank you very much, Mr Vice-President, for the addition, they are absolutely not made of sugar, and I fully agree. The question is, what's better, spending 17 billion on posters or getting a helicopter out of it? [[Interviews from the Fidesz ranks.]] Heat cameras cost a million forints, and you have to borrow the thermal camera, because there's practically not enough in the border patrol squadrons. There's no drink. So, let alone no hot tea! Imagine that the border guard is constantly in the centuries, that they're on duty for 16 to 18 hours in a row, so... [[Dr. Pál Völner: Is this interpellation?]] That there aren't any camping chairs out there or anything they can sit on. And all these basic conditions are not provided by you. You do not allow the border to be protected. In fact, what they're talking about, who went through the country, you let them through. They do nothing to protect the border, to make border protection more stable, to prevent people from coming in illegally, but to bring in a four-page paper with four pieces of legislation and to say that it solves the problems. Forgive us, but may Other Politics has too much confidence in their government and is not towards the legislative activity that creates these four lines. You practically failed a referendum, and the minister responsible for propaganda could not bring together a valid referendum out of 17 billion. Obviously, there's a PR goal to make up for this activity. It is very, very sad that the Hungarian Fundamental Law and the Hungarian Constitution have become a political toy, but we are actually here in the general debate of this, and that is why it is important to mention that the May Other Politics does not want to assist in this. In the case of the strengthening of border guards' centuries from budgetary amendments, the extension or strengthening of technical border protection or the specific tasks that will help protect the border, then you can count on our possible partnership, but as long as you continue to carry out PR constitutions, I very much ask you not to count on us and try to do this without losing your dignity, as my fellow Member from KDNP has done in his speech. Thank you for the floor, Mr President.
u2016-10-17-217	Thank you very much, Congressman. It's time for Congressman Gábor Fodor. Congressman, you have a deadline of 22 minutes. You have the floor, please.
u2016-10-17-218	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to begin by saying that in this debate I would like to express and represent the position of the Liberal Party, and I would like to say right at the beginning of my speech that the Liberal Party does not support the amendment of the Constitution, we see this path as wrong and wrong, and we believe that this amendment is not in the interests of the country. I would like to explain later my arguments as to why we liberals think so. I would like to begin by saying what this referendum really is, the result of which we are struggling with here, and the result of which has now been presented to us by the government in the form of a constitutional amendment. In fact, this referendum was a public opinion poll, and it has to be faced honestly, which otherwise has no public-law obligation, no public-law consequences, but only political consequences. And this is the political consequence that we are now moaning in the form of a constitutional amendment. In the form of a constitutional amendment on which, of course, the question can be raised: if there is no public-law coercion, there is only political pressure, then what was the need for this whole referendum, what was the need to spend the HUF 15-20 billion. After all, Jobbik, sitting here in Parliament, may rightly say that they have already raised the question that by amending the constitution, we should solve the dilemmas with some kind of response that they represent or imagine, so they proposed with such an answer, a constitutional amendment. Then we heard the Prime Minister's reply in Parliament, who did not think it was right. He argued that it was not possible to bring a constitutional amendment through Parliament, and it would not be right, because the parties of government were not authorised to do so. No one has given this mandate in the elections, because at that time this issue could not be asked in the elections as a question for citizens to vote 'yes' or 'no', or even express their will in the elections, so because this problem has arisen since then, it is necessary to ask Hungarian citizens what their opinion is. Well, that explanation would be correct and attractive if the referendum had otherwise been valid. However, since the referendum was not valid, unfortunately this answer is not valid, nor is the Prime Minister's response, since citizens have been asked, and the majority of citizens have certainly not participated in this referendum. Here we have to say what has already been mentioned in the press, perhaps even in today's debate, and it is worth pointing out that, by the way, the fact that a referendum is valid and effective is the legal rule, so let us say that there is a public-law consequence in a referendum if we can say that it was effective and thus valid. Well, Fidesz changed the rules on this after the 2010 elections, tightened up these rules to make the result of the referendum even more legitimate - that was the argument, then - and if the validity threshold is not reached by a referendum, then its result should be ignored. That's exactly what this change means, isn't it? So here we are faced with a referendum on which Minister Lazarus said that he was dissatisfied with his result, so we are opposed to a referendum that was not valid and which has political consequences. I would like to emphasise once again the political consequences. Political consequence is the amendment of the Constitution. The amendment of the Constitution, which could have been achieved without a referendum, would have been possible without throwing 15 and 20 billion forints out the window. Of course, we know that this was necessary according to the logic of Fidesz and the governing parties, because it was actually a voter referendum, a referendum for internal political interests, so that Fidesz could strengthen its political camp, its voting base, so that Fidesz could take the voters from Jobbik, so that Jobbik could get better voters to support the political issue proposed by Fidesz. These were the real reasons, and it is not really about the refugee crisis, it is not about the refugee crisis, it is not about Europe's problems, it is about the constitutional amendment and the whole referendum story, it is about an internal political battle. The price is too high for this reason, ladies and gentlemen, not only is the price too high in HUF, but also politically it is a very high price. What the last year has left behind us in Hungary is the mass of emotions, hatred and anger, the growth of an enemy image that we have already talked about here in the House. In front of me, my fellow Member of the LMP spoke about this by building demons and enemy images from the party side where it is particularly sad, and I have to say that it is indeed a shame that the Christian Democratic People's Party is also behind one of these, where other values and other values should be suggested and displayed, precisely that it should be given a helping hand primarily to people in difficulty, not to those who are unable to defend it, to create enemies. So we're leaving a year like this behind. So we cannot say that what we have behind us is not without consequences, this is the last year, and this was purely political gain. I think it is not proportionate to the otherwise acceptable aspect of political gain, because, of course, there are obviously such efforts in politics, but there is no proportion of the losses that are behind us. There's a lot of damage I think we've managed to do in the country. [[16.10]] Well, back to the legal problems. So, first of all, problem number one is that Fidesz itself changed it, as I said earlier, the rules on the referendum, these rules are not being taken seriously, they are not being observed. Fidesz argued that there is a need for stronger legitimacy for the adoption of the outcome of the referendum, which is why the rules need to be tightened up and otherwise the result should be ignored if it does not reach the threshold of validity. This is not what is happening here, so they go against their former will, their former argument. On the other hand, it should also be said about what has already been said in the past, but it is worth pointing out here once again that a referendum could not have been issued on a subject which would otherwise wish to amend the Fundamental Law. Of course, this was not the subject of the referendum, as we know, but Fidesz's argument constantly states that this is the result of the referendum. Like I said, once again, no public-law consequences, no public-law obligations, just political consequences. We pay the price for political consequences, we went through these stations, where there is destruction, damage, and unnecessary waste of money. So we are talking about political consequences, there is no public-law consequence, but it is worth stating that, yes, there is such a pass in Hungary, there is such a rule, which we have adopted by the majority, on the basis of which, moreover, even a referendum on the amendment of the Fundamental Law cannot be issued. Well, I think that everything that's happening is actually a loose interpretation of the different rules, to put it mildly, in a political way. Again, I do not want to use politics in a pejorative sense in this regard, because it is natural in a political struggle that we have political intentions, but the principles of the rule of law on which we oppositions so often criticize the governing parties mean that if there is a limit and a limit to political will, that is the law. At the time of the regime change, when we fought for democracy from the communist regime, the dictatorship, in Hungary, during the regime change in 1989-90, many of us, even many of my fellow founders of the former liberal party in the benches of Fidesz, said that one of the main aims of our struggle was to finally break out of the situation where the law was a servant of politics. This was the characteristic of the dictatorship, where the law regularly raped this servant-girl, because democracy and the rule of law mean that there is a barrier to political will, and that is the law, the rule of law, the constitution. Well, the loose interpretation of the rules again means what I have just said: on the subject of referendums, on the result of the referendum - and here I try to use subtle terms when I say that we are talking about loose interpretation - the governing party does not take these rules seriously, it goes against all the ideas, all the principles that we fought at the time of the regime change against the former dictatorship, against the party state. This means bringing back party state thinking, party state reflexes. It was the party state's own, that it did not regard the law as a barrier to politics, and that we should regard it as such, and that it cannot be constantly amended according to our current political will; we are now amending a granite law for the seventh time, which we call the Fundamental Law. It cannot be constantly modified on the basis of political will, but it must be borne in mind that even a majority will may be limited to the law, because this is what we agreed on, in which the various political sides jointly formed an alliance; so that we can fight and play these certain political games correctly and civilly, if you will. So it is the disregard of all these rules that we have before us, and it is therefore not possible to support this constitutional amendment either politically or in substance, because it goes against all the rule of law principles that we used to be sworn to for which we fought against a dictatorship. Well, ladies and gentlemen, allow me, for one thought only, to refer to the fact that, for that reason, the governing parties always cast 3 million 300 thousand votes on the non-member side, and they do not speak of the 4 million 900 thousand people who either did not leave or voted invalidly or voted in favour, so they took a different position than the governing parties. Of course, we never know that on the part of those voters who have not left, who have voted invalidly - let's say, in the vote, we know why they voted yes, so it can be taken out - the motivations they had are not worth guessing. One thing is certain: 3 million to 300 thousand is 4 million to 900 thousand for the citizens who are entitled to the election. It cannot be said that the overwhelming majority of Hungarian society, the massive majority of Hungarian society, would be behind you because of what you want in the area of constitutional amendment or political intention. There is indeed a significant number, there is a very strong, very significant will, this is without doubt, but it is not the majority of Hungarian society, it must be clearly seen, the numbers must be interpreted in this way. Well, ladies and gentlemen, allow me to make two comments on the text before us, as I think it also deserves it. I would like to make a general remark and a very specific semantic comment, if you will. The general comment would be linked to what Minister Trócsányi said here in Parliament, interpreting and interpreting the Prime Minister's thoughts. It was also about the nature of the European Union that the Minister's thinking was about, in other words, how we think about the Union, how federal the Union should be, or how loose a union of nation states is. Well, there really is a debate between us here, that is indeed the case, a serious political debate: on the basis of what has been said, the Minister thinks that we should think of a loose alliance of nation states, obviously in this, as I have said, he represents the position of the Prime Minister and the governing parties; and we think that we are imagining the future of the European Union in closer cooperation, in a closer Federation, and also in the vision of its future political operation. This is really a debate. I think that the European Union will be stronger economically and politically if cooperation becomes deeper. I do not think that the Union cannot be criticised, but, of course, there is a long line of scolding and criticizing the functioning of the Union, by the way. There is a mass problem with the functioning of the Union, but it is a huge asset both economically and politically. A country such as Hungary, whose economy is clearly an economy which is export-oriented and which can otherwise only be expected to grow on the basis of exports, has a clear interest in making the Union stronger. In the global market, and also in world trade, it is clearly in our interest that Europe, in a close alliance with the United States of America, can increase its economy, if it pleases, strengthen and strengthen its political influence. I think it is good for us, for European civilisation, so long as it is good for the world values based on humanism, tolerance and freedom, as long as these various important political and economic centres, such as the United States of America and the European Union, are able to cooperate well. This cooperation is also based on the fact that Europe is also strong politically and economically. This can be envisaged through closer integration and more federal ways, and this is what it takes to be competitive in the world, not to talk about how the European Union is weakening economically and politically, how it will otherwise fall behind in world competition. This is indeed a debate between us, a debate between you and us, for example, if you will, referring to the Minister's speech, a debate between me and him in what he said. Well, I see and read the law differently than he does. I also see from the practice of the European Union that, by the way, the European Union is constantly going in the direction in which Community law is primacy, as opposed to national law. It is right that, in some cases, not always, I would stress where we give our sovereignty to the community - because it is natural that in all cooperation we are handing over certain elements of sovereignty, that is right, and that is right - where we are handing over certain elements of sovereignty, there is a primacy of Community law. Moreover, there are numerous cases of this in the decisions of the European Court of Justice: the decisions of the European Court of Justice in the case of Costa v Enel or Simmenthal are all about how the European Court of Justice otherwise recognises the primacy of European Community law vis-à-vis national law. [[16.20]] Thus, in certain cases, in certain conflicts, the court decides, when national law and Community law are in conflict, Community law has primacy. That's right, that's right, and that's how I read your direction, as opposed to what the Minister said, because he sees the direction of European law development differently, as he said. This is how I see it, and I think that the European Union is going in this direction, and it is right to go in this direction. This is what we want to support and this is what we want to strengthen. Well, your amendment of the Constitution doesn't really serve this direction, it doesn't strengthen that direction, but what you're talking about here, and I don't think it's right, it doesn't serve the interests of the country, because it will make Hungary vulnerable, weak, and in a short time you will find yourself in a European periphery. If the Union weakens, falls apart, splits up into a multi-speed Europe, Hungary can only lose. Just loser, don't forget that. We are interested in all integrations. Everything that is not integration, Hungary will be out of the main stream, and there it will find itself among the losers very quickly. On the other hand, allow me one more comment on the specific text. Mr János Harghitai, who is no longer in the room, argued that it was appropriate, for example, to use the term " Alien" in this text. Well, let me give you another view on this: I consider the use of this term to be particularly inappropriate. Wrong, wrong. This is also an element of the adversary architecture for which I criticise and do not support, among other things, this referral and criticize the ruling parties. I think it's a huge mistake, it's destructive to build enemy images. And indeed, not only did the poster campaign play a role in this, not only the entire campaign behind us in the last year, but it also plays a role, for example, that such a constitutional amendment rather than using more neutral terms that are used in law - foreign, and I could say otherwise - it uses the term "" - wrong, wrong, wrong. I think it is semantically wrong, and I would like to emphasise once again that, in view of its deeper political content, this type of change is also a change. Ladies and gentlemen, Overall, I see the whole amendment of the Constitution, which is before us, that it does not serve in any way - as I have already referred to it in my argument - the interests of the country, in any case, it destroys the interests of Hungarian society, which is behind us, it does not serve our cooperation with the European Union, nor is such a constitutional amendment, which, I would stress once again, has only political compulsion, has nothing to do with public law. It does not serve our harmonious relationship with the Union, even though it is necessary, I would stress once again, not because we should serve what Brussels wants, as so many critics of the Union say among them. It's not like that. Not at all. Let's fight where we need to. However, let us be clear and let us say that our interests want Europe to be strong, that the Western world should be strong, that it should prosper, that it should develop economically and politically, that it should be part of Hungary. Let us not be pariahs, not a country to which, by the way - often the people who live here also experience the negative consequences - look ashamed as a difficult, often unpleasant Member State of the European Union, but be a country whose citizens can walk high and proudly, stand out and say that we really represent the European values. We are not trying to create an enemy image of innocent people, we are not trying to demonize them, because the reason no fellow Member thinks that those demon-like refugees are all some kind of evil people. Most of them are unfortunate people - as has already been said here in this Chamber from the arguments of others - obviously among them as among all, as my fellow Members have spoken here, among us Hungarians there are excellent people, and there are less excellent people to put it mildly, as is the case with others. Therefore, it is not possible to demonize any group of peoples on the basis of their origins, but we could have learned this from history, if not from elsewhere, at least from XX. History of the century. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, we, who claim to be liberal people, and I cannot support this constitutional amendment on behalf of the Liberal Party, will in all circumstances oppose it, we will vote against it, and we will ask the governing party to refrain from this intention and to stop the type of mood in this country that has been going on the refugee issue for the last year as an excuse. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2016-10-17-219	Thank you very much, Congressman. There's a full circle down, and now we're going to have two-minute speeches. I give the floor first from the Fidesz Group to Congresswoman Mátrai Márta, the Housemaster of Parliament. Here you go.
u2016-10-17-220	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Adam Mirkóczki spoke to me and I would like to respond to his comment. Congressman, I did not mention any community in my speech, as you did. I am very sorry that Mr President has spoken out of my speech other than what he has been referring to and what he is referring to. You know, Congressman, we know and see that the Hungarians want Europe to remain Europeans, and we Hungarians want to preserve Hungary as a Hungarian country. I don't think there's any discussion between us. But I believe that there is a need to distinguish free movement within Europe, free movement of labour from migration from outside Europe. My position, our position, is that the unemployed must also be distinguished within the EU from those immigrants who come to Europe for a living, to the Member States of the European Union, so they are present as economic immigrants, because they want to get the standard of living that they do not receive in their own country. I'd like to ask you a rhetorical question: what about the institution of readmission? Why do we not know why Member States cannot deport those who are unauthorized in Europe? It is not because there is either a lack of responsiveness - as I mentioned in my speech - or they disappear from the eyes of the authority and cannot be found, since they arrive with false papers and cannot be found. So this issue I was talking about contains the seventh amendment to the Fundamental Law. I'm very sorry if you've drawn other thoughts from this. I am convinced that Hungary needs this amendment. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-10-17-221	Thank you very much, ma'am. From the KDNP, Mr. Péter Harrach, leader of the faction. Here you go.
u2016-10-17-222	Mr President, Dear fellow Members, I'd like to talk about the increased nature of the amendment to the Fundamental Law, but since we've been approached, I have to answer. I don't like to argue with Gábor Fodor, because we're not in the same league, because he's showing us his entire membership here, and we're showing a fraction of the KDNP. [[Intercoms in Jobbik's ranks.]] But that's not the question. [[Dr. István Apáti: Thirty times the total support!]] He's really the most... [[Intercoms in Jobbik's ranks. The president's ringing the bell.]] That's what I'm talking about, Mr. President.
u2016-10-17-223	We'll count it. Congressman Abbot... [[Intercoms in Jobbik's ranks, multiply by thirty... plus one.]] Congressman Abbot!
u2016-10-17-224	In any case, Gábor Fodor's speech has been the highest, and there is indeed an argument worth arguing with. I'll make one quick mention. Five million are active Hungarian voters who are interested in public life. 3.3 million of these five million voted one way, no. So it was a two-thirds result in that sense, that's what's behind the numbers. [[Defiance and interruptions in Jobbik's ranks.]] Not to mention that there were a million more people than usually voting for this political family. The low point of the debate that Benedek Sallai represented, I do not know what to say, because it was so primitive and demagogic [[Intercoms in Jobbik's ranks: Watch out, he's coming back! It's like a Wraith!]] There were no arguments here, so it would be difficult to answer that. But in any case, his demagogy was not the saddest, but rather the idealism behind it. The LMP after Schiffer showed a strong shift to the left here, reflecting an approach represented by some representatives or leaders of the Union. Therefore, those things that were said were more of a campaign than an argument system. Maybe I'll get a chance to answer that. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-10-17-225	Thank you very much, Mr. Group Leader. We will continue with the proper speeches. I give the floor first from the Fidesz Group to Mr Szilárd Németh. Here you go. [[Intercom from Jobbik: The suit only needs the top button...]] [[16.30]]
u2016-10-17-226	Thank you very much. Thank you for the dress advice, by the way. [[Dr. István Apáti: You're welcome.]] I'm gonna take it, and if I have to, I'm gonna stop by a hairdresser in between two workouts like your leader. [[Noise, interruptions from Jobbik's ranks.]] Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, [[Crying out of Jobbik's ranks. The president's ringing the bell.]] The last few hours have been very instructive, whether we look at the lectures or the previous speeches. It seems to me that for our part here in connection with the amendment of the basic law, regarding the seventh amendment, perhaps if we consider the opposition as en block, then on the one hand we do not see the comrades, they have disappeared on the left. [[Interview from Jobbik's ranks: Speak carefully!]] We don't see the people they carried around as independent representatives. Although there are also individual Members of Parliament, such as Szabolcs Szabó, as well as their newly elected representative of Veszprém, who left the people here as individual representatives, or Lajos Oláh, who was elected in the VIIth century. In the district, I was elected as an individual representative in the colours of the Gyurcsány Party. They'll have to deal with their constituents in some way as to why these benches are. Although several people, either on the LMP's side or last week, the faction leader Bertalan Tóth, on the part of the MSZP, did not consider the 3 million 362 thousand people who voted in the same direction and participated in the election, they did not consider them as being driven by reason or the heart. They used different adjectives for people who did not taste in their mouths, not according to their party political position, to participate in this referendum. Well, what I see is that we can have a substantive and intellectual debate with the liberals in Parliament today, because every part of the opposition is governed by political, political and political affairs. I am very sorry that I had to experience this with Jobbik, but when their lead speaker constantly threatens to change the constitution, in a debate on a fundamental law amendment, and fantasies that in 2018, when they come to power, what a beautiful new world it will be, well, this does not mean that he would have dealt with the subject or would be interested in this extremely important national issue. [[Uproar, interruptions from Jobbik's ranks, including: We dealt with the subject.]] The person we can argue with is Gábor Fodor, although I have to say from the beginning that we cannot agree on virtually much of his position at all. For example, I cannot fully agree when it differentiates the validity and effectiveness of the referendum very strongly and sharply. Although he emphasized that so many people have never voted in one direction, 3, 362,224 people have said their will. He has given a clear will to Parliament, to Budapest or to Brussels, and he has authorized, I think, both the Prime Minister and the Government and Parliament to enforce this will at all levels. When I visited several rural settlements last week, I saw not only the government's task, not only the parliamentary task in this, but also many mayors in the municipalities, a lot of Members believed that we were obliged to represent the will of the people and to do the will of the people at all levels of public life and public life. On the issue of validity, I would like to say that I have prepared a small summary of the referendums of the past period, i.e. all six referendums that we have experienced in the past. In 97 there was a 49 percent participation rate in the NATO vote, and a very fast, rapid amendment to the legislation, and it was still said that a few minutes before seven o'clock the vote was extended for an hour. As a whole, there were 3 million 344 thousand people voting together, which was an 85 percent declaration of will. Today Hungary is still a member of NATO, and nobody, but nobody, is questioning this NATO membership here in the parliamentary horseshoe. [[Intercoms from Jobbik's ranks, among them: The threshold was different. The president's ringing the bell.]] The EU accession referendum in 2003 was a 45 percent referendum, where 3 million 56 thousand people voted in one direction, corresponding to 83 percent. Today Hungary is a member of the European Union, because on 1 May 2004 we signed the Treaty of Accession and it is precisely the will to refer to the referendum, citing the overwhelming majority of those participating in the referendum. The two-yes, three-yes referendum was also like this. I would like to highlight the two-yes, which has been said several times today, not only because the then Prime Minister practically failed him, failed him, betrayed his nation, betrayed Hungary. I attended the parliamentary meeting where the Hungarian organization across the 12 borders asked Hungarian representatives, the Hungarian people, the Hungarian political life to vote for dual citizenship, everyone to have faith in it. The only way we managed to do this was that, in addition to a 37-percent participation, only one-and-a-half million people said that the institution of dual citizenship should be introduced; however, six years later, when people authorised Fidesz-KDNP by a two-thirds majority and the new government was established, this programme could be set up. So it also had its political weight not only morally but politically it also gave a very strong political mandate. I feel the same way in this referendum. Minister said very spectacularly that the amendment of the constitution, the amendment of the basic law, could have been, of course, without the referendum; it could have been a referendum, that this very strict regulation that we have created to increase the seriousness of the institution of the referendum, the most democratic institution of expression, had it really de jure, by force of the referendum - or to force it not really, is clearly visible, only on the other side of the horseshoe - the amendment of the constitution. But that's not what happened. What happened in the referendum was that, in addition to a very high participation, more than 98 percent of the people made it clear what politicians are doing here in Parliament with a very one-way vote, with a clear expression of opinion. It was also clear to everyone, because this is what we have talked about before, that this must be conceived in the amendment of the Constitution, the amendment of the basic law. We could talk about the amendment of the law, we could talk about a parliamentary decision, but the real strength of this is that we are going to put in Hungary's Fundamental Law all the things that people have given us in response to that question, because it is the will of the Hungarian people. I would like to say one more thing about the institution of the referendum and the mandate. For the first time in a very long time, however, Hungarians across the border, i.e. those living in the Hungarian accommodation area, have also made up an opinion. 130,000 votes across the border, if you look at only the envelope votes. Obviously, some more of the embassy is not only the vote of the Hungarians working outside, but also the vote of the Hungarians across the border. That's a very large number of votes. Let me also say that they took part in the vote far above the Hungarian participation rates, so that it is not easy for them to take part in this vote. I think that we will have to think about how we can make it easier for Hungarian voters across borders to vote as genuine democrats. They really set an example in that virtually one hundred percent of the votes across the border in one direction, even more in one direction, with a gender ratio above 99 percent. Because they know exactly what evacuation and resettlement mean. They know perfectly well that these two go hand in hand together. If we look at the resettlement in Transylvania, it is there; if we look at the evacuations in the Highlands, the Beneš Decrees, then it has made it possible for the population rates to change, and this should be clear enough for everyone, whether we are looking at the period between the two world wars or the period after the Paris peace treaty in '47. Or I could say a small settlement, Atyha, where the church burned down a few weeks ago, and this settlement, this Saltland, was a 1560 enthusiastic settlement in 1950, and today only 178 people live in this settlement, I am talking about a color Hungarian settlement. [[16.40]] So, if you look at the loss of Hungarians or the loss of Europeans, it is clear that this problem cannot be solved either through evacuation, resettlement or dislocation. I think that it is Parliament's duty, rather than having to take into account it, not only to consider how the rules have evolved now, how it has become less, but it is the duty of the Parliament and all the Members of Parliament to take into account the clear will of the people, and it is our duty to amend the Fundamental Law in order not to be able to install anyone bypassing the parliament into Hungary. In addition, the greatest possible danger in this is that if we were to do so in groups, Brussels would group up and force us to distribute and to relocate people who arrived in Europe during 2013-14-15. I trust that the parties will review their role on this issue, and when we decide on 8 November to amend the Fundamental Law, we will be able to make these amendments in a very large majority, which will enable the Hungarian people to fulfill their will, the request of the Hungarian people. Thank you so much for listening. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2016-10-17-227	Thank you very much, Congressman. The next speaker from the Jobbik Group is Mr János Volner, Head of Group. Here you go, Mr. Group Leader. You have the floor.
u2016-10-17-228	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, We are now after a referendum campaign that was more expensive than the Brexit campaign, and the government has spent more in this than the British have spent with the Brexit campaign, the two parties who fought with each other, together. This can also be investigated, since electoral budgets and referendum budgets are both public in England. The result was that the government of Viktor Orbán recapitalisation the press empire marked by Andy Vajna, Árpád Habony and Tamás Szemerey. Ladies and gentlemen. This made sense that 15 billion forints were pushed into the media empire serving Viktor Orbán so that this media empire could continue to shout the propaganda lies that the government intends to spread across the country. The negative result of this referendum was that Hungary is currently in a worse negotiating position against Brussels than before the referendum campaign, because all Western European politicians who are in favour of migration have said what Western European newspapers have written, that this is a huge failure, because this referendum has become invalid. I add: unfortunately, it has become invalid, and we could not represent our interests because Viktor Orbán glued his own logo to this referendum campaign, and although the overwhelming majority of Hungarian society opposes migration, many protested in this referendum because of Viktor Orbán's logo. I think it is important to say that in many cases Fidesz seems to represent the interests of Hungarian people and Hungarians, but it does not do so on the European Union stage. And that is why I am very sorry that József Szájer has left here and cannot hear those words. I have collected some things where Fidesz acted in a completely opposite way on the European Union scene, as it does in Hungary, in order to protect national interests. For example, there is the man, Jean-Claude Juncker, who slapped Viktor Orbán, who, by the way, appears regularly as a politician with alcohol problems on the front page of European newspapers, the man who supports migration. Now, ladies and gentlemen, what is the Hungarian parliamentary party whose representatives in the European Parliament confirmed this man in his position when he was opposed to a motion of mistrust? Ladies and gentlemen, this is Fidesz. Without exception, Fidesz MEPs voted in favour of Jean-Claude Juncker, supporting migration, and confirmed his position. I understand, of course, that you could use an opponent against whom you can very spectacularly defend Hungarian interests, but what has happened is that an EU leader in migration has been strengthened by your representatives in his position. [[Dr. István Apáti: Congratulations!]] It is also worth seeing how the European Union's efforts towards the European United States have taken place. A High Representative for Foreign Affairs and Security Policy was set up, and the European Parliament discussed his report in March 2015 in which a renewed and coherent migration policy was called for, I quote: • use should be made of all policy and support instruments, including development and trade policy, humanitarian aid, conflict prevention, crisis management by strengthening the means of legal migration. Ladies and gentlemen. This report was voted out in Brussels by the MEPs of Fidesz, all of them, contrary to the migrant policy expressed by Viktor Orbán. [[Dr. István Apáti: Oops!]] I'm going to go on, because unfortunately, there's still more, and I'm afraid there won't be enough time for this ten-minute window to tell you all the similar cases. At the EU summit in February 2016, Viktor Orbán, like his 27 European colleagues, approved the conclusions of the meeting. Point 7 (h) of this paragraph begins as follows: "Relocation decisions last December must be implemented in all their elements. Ladies and gentlemen. This is about the relocation of migrants to Hungary. [[Dr. András Aradski: You're wrong!]] This is how it begins:, last December's relocation decisions must be implemented in all their elements. Ladies and gentlemen. This is about the relocation of migrants to Hungary. (Dr. András Aradski: Wrong!) This was signed, supported, and on this basis the Hungarian people were betrayed, and they took a completely opposite position in Brussels, as they say here at home. I go further: in July 2016, the Fidesz EP delegation adopted a European Commission work programme for 2017. In this regard, the European Parliament calls on the Commission to organise systematic and enforceable programmes for the direct resettlement and relocation of asylum seekers. I would add that this was also voted by the representatives of Fidesz, and then, when it came to light, they felt that it was going to be a scandal, and afterwards - although it does not have any legal relevance - they changed their own vote in the European Parliament, and in this way they tried to make this traitorous vote more beautiful. I will go on again: the European Parliament discussed the situation in Hungary at its plenary session on 2 December 2015 and this was discussed at the EP meeting. Fidesz representatives did not defend Hungary, did not participate in the debate [[Dr. István Apáti: They didn't even understand what was going on.]] They didn't say anything, they didn't do anything. It is also typical of the situation in the European Parliament that the Hungarian position was defended by UKIP, represented by the British Independence Party, the French National Front and Jobbik representatives in Hungary, while the Fidesz MEPs were not there. [[György Szilágyi: These are facts, this is reality! Dóra Dúró: Shame!]] So when you begin to blame the Gyurcsány Party for staying away from the House of Representatives in violation of their oath, your representatives in Brussels do the same not once. I would add, however, that such a difference from Hungarian interests and the betrayal of Hungary not only took place in such areas, but also in other areas. For example, the report on the Single Market Strategy was adopted by the Fidesz Group, which I quote to you, under Rule 71. Article 2 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union: The European Parliament calls on the Commission to act decisively against any legislative action adopted or pending in national parliaments which may increase the fragmentation of the single market. Ladies and gentlemen! This will bring the mass of genetically modified foods into Hungary because Fidesz voted in favour of this report, among other things, of this report. We could continue with the long line, we could continue with the report on TTIP, for example. The motion for a resolution on TTIP was adopted on 8 July 2015. This was voted by the representatives of Fidesz without exception. [[16.50]] Ladies and gentlemen. It is only one of the consequences, but its very serious consequence is that Hungary will be able to be flooded with genetically modified foods as a result. [[Intruder from Jobbik's ranks: Shame!]] And this has been voted by your representatives in Brussels. [[The intervention of György Szilágyi.]] You can look at the records outside, we collected them very precisely, anyone can check this list. [[Z. Kárpát to the MPs: What is funny about this? There's nothing funny about it!]] But I would add that one of the Fidesz MEPs, Mr Schöpflin György, has sent a separate e-mail to MEPs from the V4 countries, to support TTIP, Martin Schulz and Barack Obama, in order to do so and thus to ensure their support for TTIP. Ladies and gentlemen. You talk about something completely different regularly at home, on the domestic political scene, and things are very different in Brussels when it is necessary to protect Hungary against bureaucrats in Brussels. At Jobbik, there's no such thing as cloaking. [[An uproar in the pro-government benches. The president's ringing the bell. Intercoms from Jobbik's ranks.]] we represent the same thing at home and abroad, which is in the national interest. We swore that in all cases, whether this is the case or the political wind, we represent the interests of the Hungarian people, the Hungarian nation. Fidesz typically doesn't do that. This list, which I have just mentioned, is not a complete list, that is all that fits into the time frame, but you regularly abandon Hungary. Shame on you. Thank you very much. [[Intercoms from Jobbik: That's right! Shame! A big round of applause from the Jobbik benches.]]
u2016-10-17-229	Thank you very much. Mr. Team Leader, the only thing I didn't understand was the time frame, because you'd have 62 minutes and 57 seconds. I get it, so sharing the in-house time frame within the faction. [[János Volner nodds.]] Thank you very much. [[György Szilágyi: Facts are stubborn things!]] The next speaker from the KDNP Group is Mr András Aradszki. Here you go.
u2016-10-17-230	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear House, [[Interview from Jobbik's ranks: Checkmate!]] There is a clear and clear message from the Group of the Christian Democratic People's Party: it is indeed worthy and just, decent and welcome that the majority will in the result of the referendum on the resettlement dictatorship should be incorporated into the Fundamental Law of Hungary by the Parliament. Hungarian citizens who wish to express themselves on major social issues, i.e. those who thought responsibly and went to vote on this issue on 2 October, 98 percent, 3 million 362 thousand, cannot be ignored because of moral considerations. This concerns the fact that, for their part, they do not wish to pass the decision to the European Union in order for Hungary to accept the forced resettlement of illegal immigrants. They see that, in the last year and a half, the European Union has not been able to enforce the principles laid down in the legislation beyond the betrayal of the general European identity, and which they like to refer to in liberal circles, such as Amnesty International, Helsinki Committee. Article 2 of the 1951 Geneva Convention, which was put into effect by the Hungarian People's Republic on 14 March 1989, states that all refugees have a duty to the country in which they reside, especially to subject themselves to the laws and regulations of the country and to measures taken to maintain public order. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. In Article 9, we read: "No provision of the Convention precludes a Contracting State from temporarily taking measures in relation to a particular person in war or other serious and exceptional circumstances which it considers necessary for the security of the State until it finds that the person has actually fled and that the maintenance of the measures is necessary for the security of the State. The Contracting States shall not punish refugees who have come directly from an area in which their life or leave has been endangered and who enter or reside without authorisation within the meaning of the definition in Article 1, provided that they report to the authorities without delay and provide sufficient justification for their illegal entry or presence. Contracting States shall not restrict the freedom of movement of such refugees beyond what is necessary and shall apply such restrictions only until their legal situation has been settled in that country or they have been admitted to another country. These are the rules, ladies and gentlemen of the House. The passages quoted give clear guidance on situations that we are witnessing today on a massive scale. We know - and here let me quote Deputy Prime Minister - that from Greek culture, Roman law, German government, and Jewish ethics, Christianity has created the unique and unrepeatable civilization that is now called Europe and today. European civilisation is a Christian-based civilization, and Islam is not a part of that. We Hungarians know this especially, because we have protected Europe from it for 300 years, we know what we are talking about. Europe does not defend itself today, nor does it apply the existing regulations it has made, but also calls upon the invaders, while it demands the integration of the peoples of indigenous European nations with the culture of conquerors. What is this, please, if it is not a perverted self-destruction, a deadly sin, betraying our thousands of years of faith, history and greatness in the service of foreign interests? Pope Francis was right to ask in May when the Charles Prize was received:. What happened to you, humanist Europe, advocate of human rights, democracy, freedom? What happened to you, the land of Europe, poets, philosophers, artists, musicians and literary artists? What has happened to you, mother of Europe, peoples and nations, mother of great men and women, who have been able to defend the dignity of their brothers and women and have been able to give their lives for them? The leading elite and the forces that move the events from the French Revolution to the posterity will falsify, deceive history, conceal its ancestors, ridicule its faith, culture, pride of its ancestors, human dignity, and scatter its treasures to pigs. Since then, he has declared the truth to be false, the false to be true, the good to be bad, the bad to be good. All cleverly and cunningly. [[Intercom from Jobbik: Árpád Habony!]] Eventually, he took out his immune system, so he couldn't even recognize the danger. He still has the power to defame those who seek healthy self-defense, but in fact, Europe has become a free prey. This collective suicide attempt is accompanied by the European Left, an active part of which is the Hungarian balliberal political elite. Whose interest is it? The European Left believes that it can increase its voting base by citizenship to illegal immigrants and thus permanently eliminate the right-wing forces of Christian-national conviction, but forgets that Muslim immigrants will not vote for the left, but better, they will set up their own parties, which will push out the left-wings, and will not respect democratic rules in the case of the worse version. I believe that the referendum that took place on 2 October hurts the Balliberal side, especially the result. It is certainly also unpleasant that more and more people will follow Hungary in Europe by means of self-determination and regaining sovereignty, the nations that still have the vis vital, vitality and healthy self-defense reflex. It may also be terrible that they will not receive the earthly reward promised somewhere for their actions. However, there is only one reason for all this pain that they do not yet know, or, if so, they are disgusted by it: it is supposedly their standard, and what I therefore strongly recommend to them is democracy. I believe that the Balliberians and those who encourage them to stay at home should quote in the press the generally condemned Pope Francis, who, in his apostolic encouragement from the Evangelii Gaudium, issued in November 2013, states that:, All the members of the nation form the social dimension of their lives while becoming responsible citizens on the lap of a people rather than the mass carried by the ruling forces. [[17.00]] We remind you that being a faithful citizen is a virtue and participation in political life is a moral duty. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. And on 25 November 2014, the Holy Father in the European Parliament said: "The European democracies, the survival of the democracy of European peoples, are challenging us today. Multinational interests which weaken democracy and transform it into uniforming financial power systems that serve forces in the background must not be allowed. Globalizing ideas that dilute reality must be avoided. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. With regard to immigration, the pope already stressed the need for legislation that protects the rights of EU citizens. If there is a policy driven by individual interests, we will only make the situation worse; the causes and not the symptoms must be dealt with. Dear House, The Hungarian voters therefore clearly see that the socialists cannot count on the protection of the nation and the country. For the record, that's all I'm saying. The other opposition parties either pursue a two-faced policy or are characterised by complete internal confusion or are frivolous and unfit to govern. Therefore, those who were willing to express their views on the crucial issue on 2 October have earned themselves the right to enforce their opinions on a public-law basis. This is what it serves and it is therefore necessary to amend the Fundamental Law before us. The question of the referendum began as follows: do you want it? Anyone who didn't vote obviously doesn't want to, or else he would've gone and voted yes, which means they were on the side of the no. And the proportion of votes in favour was small. Thus, the incorporation of the result of the referendum into law is indeed worthy and fair, serving Hungarian sovereignty, serving our right to self-determination, and thus strengthening Europe's unity. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-10-17-231	Thank you very much, Congressman. We now have two-minute speeches. I am speaking from the Fidesz Group to Congresswoman Mónika Dunai. Here you go, Congresswoman.
u2016-10-17-232	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear House, Sallai R. Benedek's contribution to the LMP led me to comment at this stage of the debate in two minutes. Congressman wasn't in the room, and then he ran in here, said a comment, and went out again. In the meantime, the congressman didn't realize that we were not discussing the agenda he had spoken to. He spoke about the Istanbul Convention and the violence against women and children. However, it is very important that his speech does not go unanswered in this House, even if it was not relevant. My first point: Hungary has signed the Istanbul Convention, it is true that it has not yet ratified it. This legislative and legal preparation work is currently being prepared very seriously with the involvement of three ministries. My second point is that the criminal code created three years ago is one of the strictest criminal codes in Europe, which guarantees much better or at least as much punishment for violence against women in connection with violence, and since then we have tightened it up for children that it is unique across Europe. My third point is: let's look at which countries have ratified it. For example, Turkey has ratified it, but Germany has not ratified it. I ask whether people, Hungarian women and children are safer in Hungary or in Istanbul or in Germany. It does not depend on whether we have ratified the Istanbul Convention, but on how much we guarantee the protection of those living in the country in our other legislation. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-10-17-233	Thank you very much. The next two-minute speaker from the Jobbik Group is Mr Gábor Staudt. Here you go, Congressman.
u2016-10-17-234	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, You, Fidesz-KDNP Members, can ask for support when it comes to a two-thirds amendment of the basic law! In theory, we are talking about agreeing on the rules that will be incorporated together in the Fundamental Law, which will protect Hungarian people. Compared to this, sometimes the debate goes in a direction that I think is naughty. And to ask who is in this room and who is not... it's okay that Viktor Orbán had a job, we believe, but then it would have been nice if at least his minister had stayed here. Or at least a minister. It's okay that Secretary of State Völner is here, but at least we should represent the government at ministerial level. By the way, I have to tell you that the sovereignty clause that we are bringing in is in itself okay - I will address this in a later speech - but it is also a question that we have explained at the five-party meeting that this term "constitutional identity" is a difficult concept to grasp. This is not explained in the Fundamental Law either, and there is quite a lot of debate about it in scientific and international law, even where fundamental laws and constitutions look back on a rather old history, and there are not just a few years of history behind them. Is it enough to think that if the Fundamental Law is amended seven times now, our constitutional identity will be changed seven times, and if it is to be changed again in the future, will this be subject to a general change? I think that this category, which is the category of sovereignty that we have not handed over to Brussels - it is right and I stress that there are such categories and there are powers that we have not given over to Brussels - would not be appropriate to explain it in the sphere of constitutional identity. I must say that we have heard of constitutional costs in the Mengyi case, but the constitutional identity is yet to be explained. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2016-10-17-235	Thank you very much, Congressman. A two-minute speech from the KDNP Group will also be followed by Mr Péter Harrach, Head of the Group. Here you go.
u2016-10-17-236	I didn't mean to comment, but since we participated in the five-party meeting together, let me refer to the fact that constitutional identity fits into a very beautiful idea and is related to the concept of the nation. You remember what's in this constitution, Congressman. The people who have lived so far, the people who are now alive and the next generation make up the nation together. When referring to the historical constitution, it is precisely this concept of a nation that is desired here, because the constitutional identity is rooted in the historical constitution, not in the one currently formulated. His objection is that if this constitution changes, then the whole thing changes: it doesn't change, because it has much deeper foundations. But if I've been given the floor, let me say a few more words about sovereignty. I believe that this is not only on this issue in connection with the current amendment, but also in a much bigger context, because, as Prime Minister said during the day, there is a serious struggle in Europe. One is about representing the community of nation states, and the other is about the united states in Europe, which I hope is far from our thinking for you, for us too. So when it comes to sovereignty, it's not just about the issue of resettlement, it's about a lot more. This is why the current amendment to the basic law is nice, because it is such a broad link to this issue, and it is not just an occasional amendment, but it deepens the thoughtfulness of what has already been published in the Constitution, but better explains it. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-10-17-237	Thank you very much, Mr. Group Leader. There will be regular speeches. Mr László Kucsák is coming from the Fidesz Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2016-10-17-238	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. God gave me the heart, the soul that was burning for the service of my people and my country. Ladies and gentlemen, After 6 October, the words of Count Károly Vécsey, the last 13 generals executed in Arad could not be more timely than when we have the general debate in Parliament on the amendment of the basic law to protect Hungary's national identity and culture. In every age, there are decisions that serve the unity of our nation. The martyrs of Arad died in 1849 for this country. Today we have the legacy that, although we do not have to give our lives for our country, we have to make calm, direct and decisive decisions. [[17.10]] Today in Hungary more than 3 million 360,000 people expect us, including more than 29 thousand Budapest XVIII. in the district of Pestszentlőrincen and Pestszentimre, to protect our borders by all legitimate means. We Members of Parliament have the historic task of providing the government with the right legislative background by amending our Fundamental Law to protect and protect the Hungarian borders. We must decide how non-Hungarian and non-EU citizens can live in Hungary in the future. Accordingly, the four points in the seventh amendment concern the following: The first is the National Creed, recorded here: we believe that the protection of our constitutional identity, which is rooted in the historical constitution, is a fundamental duty of the state. Second, that, in order for Hungary to participate as an EU Member State, the exercise of joint powers must be consistent with the fundamental rights and freedoms enshrined in the Fundamental Law and should not restrict the inalienable right of disposal of Hungary's territorial unit, population, state form and state settlement. Third, it states that the protection of constitutional identity is the duty of all organs of the state. Finally, it states that a foreign population cannot be introduced into the territory of Hungary, that a foreign citizen can only live in Hungary if the Hungarian authority has assessed his application and has contributed to it in the police procedure created by the Parliament. However, this does not apply to citizens of the European Economic Area. Today a new unit was created for Hungary and Hungary. But not only a new unity, but also a new political space seems to emerge, because, as we can see in the Chamber now, there are those who take this historic moment seriously, and there are those who are still busy with their own affairs. They do not participate in the debate, do not vote, or simply do not accept the legitimacy given by more than 3 million 360,000 people. They're delirious, they're taking their own chances. But let's think about it for a second. The parties calling themselves democratic have asked their supporters to remain indifferent to the future of Hungary, to stay at home, and to let their children and grandchildren' futures be decided by another, Brussels or other power, so that these parties and their politicians can again serve their own interests. And if you'll allow me, for one thought, let me turn to the spiritual swamp walk from LMP's politicians, which was far from worthy. He was not worthy of the subject, its scale, its importance. Ákos Hadházy began, who mentioned the problem of toilet and toilet paper supply in the first sentence of the Fundamental Law. Then Sallai R. Benedek came in for a quarter of an hour, who, if he rereads his speech, may have put himself in serious trouble. That's not why we're here on this day. Once again, we have the responsibility to keep Hungary united and Hungarian. The amendment of our Fundamental Law is about our sovereignty. Our legislation aims to ensure that, in order for Hungary to participate as an EU Member State, the exercise of joint powers is consistent with the fundamental rights and freedoms enshrined in the Fundamental Law and does not restrict the inalienable right to dispose of Hungary's territorial unity, population, state form and state settlement. We remain committed to our membership of the European Union and European values, but we will not allow this commitment to jeopardise our free decision to protect our borders and to whom we want to live, to whom we want to share the goods we produce. In 1849 our ancestors died of martyrdom for a higher purpose. They gave their lives for Hungary's freedom. They had no way of knowing that for Hungary's freedom they would have to sacrifice to our fellow countrymen with a sea of blood. On the 60th anniversary of 1956, let us bear witness to our patriotism and not squander the inheritance that our ancestors gave us. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-10-17-239	Thank you very much, Congressman. The next speaker from the Jobbik Group is Mr Márton Gyöngyösi. Here you go, Congressman.
u2016-10-17-240	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, For more than a year, the political field of communication at home has been dominated by the subject of migration, and we have been listening to the various pro-government speeches here in this House for many hours. As many of my fellow Members have said here, listening to these speeches, we can see that, in fact, at Fidesz, there is a gap between actions and rhetoric, and my fellow Members from KDNP feel free to take this into account, what a difference, what a huge gap there is. For if we could only hear the Prime Minister's exposé from today's debate, where Viktor Orbán fears the nation states from the European united states, the supranational European empire, the European empire from the Brussels centre, then what kind of Europe he has built in the last 26 years, when Fidesz has been on government three times, when he was not on government, but in opposition. At a time when the decision was also in its own hands, for example, when the Lisbon Treaty was to be voted here on 17 December 2007, the document that placed the point on this European empire over the nation states as an i, how did you vote on this? What debate has taken place here in this Parliament about this document, which has brought the nation states to its foundations? Here, everyone who was sitting here and being a Member at the time voted 'yes', voted 'yes' to this document. Now you fear for national sovereignty. Eight years later. Well, ladies and gentlemen, it would be a good idea to take a moment to reflect on the responsibility of Fidesz for the European Union's arrival here. Because we are talking about the European Union by saying that it is a joint decision-making and a shared responsibility. How many times have you raised your voice in the European Union, in Brussels or even here in Budapest against the European structure that undermines the nation states? You voted every single time, supported the processes that unfortunately led to this and led to such a Europe. This morning, Viktor Orbán said that migration is just a symptom. You're right. What's the reason? We should start talking about the causes of this migration crisis. In recent decades, my fellow Members have long talked about what kind of foreign policy has led to Europe destabilizing its own neighbourhood. With active participation. Not only did the European Union, including Hungary, support the destabilisation efforts that weakened Europe by weakening, destabilizing and thus exposing Europe to a type of migration crisis, not only supportively or in an implicit way. Unfortunately, Europe's neighbourhood has been destabilised in North Africa and the Middle East, including Hungary's silent or sometimes active support. Similarly, there is nihilism and liberalism in the European Union, which has actually undermined the Christian system of values that created a kind of vacuum, and this is what migration, multiculturalism, politically correct public speech and the avoidance, setting up of taboos, self-destruction as a European custom and as a European policy have entered into this. Indeed, this is a serious reason why Europe has unfortunately come here. [[17.20]] And, ladies and gentlemen, instead of this campaign that you have carried out here in Hungary - although yes, we have to face multiculturalism, we have to face migration - we should have fought this battle in Brussels, because you, your government, have a veto in the European Council. You should not have signed the Home Affairs resolution that Brussels bureaucracy put on the table last September. You do not have to approve or sign these decisions. We have to fight this battle out there, not at home. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2016-10-17-241	Thank you very much, Congressman. From the KDNP Group, Mr Bence Rétvári is next. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2016-10-17-242	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, There's an interesting debate going on here, outside the parliamentary horseshoe and the parliamentary horseshoe. Jobbik insists within the Parliament's horseshoe that Fidesz-KDNP is the biggest friend of quotas in Brussels, while the MSZP, besides the Parliament's horseshoe, proclaims that there is no quota. So it's hard to get the opposition's point of view. Of course, the MSZP also said that there is no problem with immigration, and Fidesz invented it. Jobbik seems to have had a harder homework assignment from the faction leadership this afternoon. What you have to prove here, in the Parliament's horseshoe, is that Fidesz-KDNP would be pro-immigration, because I think it would be possible to continue a Mission impossible series. They've had a hard time getting their ax, and I don't think so many people will believe that, but if you look at the statements of Hungarian politicians, the Brussels echoes [[Dóra Dúró: Say specifics!]] You can see that this is a hopeless struggle, especially how much you were afraid of the referendum on 2 October. Try him here, but I don't think they're gonna make it. On 1 May 2004, Hungary also sought to join a European dream, a common Europe based on common values, a common economic area, a common value community, a common global focus in the whole world, and it began to become a European nightmare in the last few weeks, in the last year and a half, when European politicians, by giving up their own identity, sought to nod and even invite something unknown to them, like a blank sheet, a blank, a blanket to sign on the issue of immigration, an automatic resettlement quota. This may result from the fact that if you do not know European values, European culture, the performance that Europeans have put on the table of all mankind in the last two thousand years; because if you do not know or appreciate this enough, you will consider it exchangeable. Then it is believed that, from one decade to another, a well-established culture and civilization formed on Christian morality, Greek philosophy and Roman law, not on the Sharian, but on the basis of the Ten Commandments, can be replaced from one decade to the next by a confused, uncertain, sort of Islamism-based European arrangement based on nihilism on their part. Anyone who thinks so does not appreciate the past centuries of Europe, does not value what European states, European people, European leaders, European churches have created for centuries and generations in art, science and human achievement. Maybe it's worth getting to know them again, because if you get to know them, you feel like you own them, you find your own place in them, you don't think they can be replaced from one moment to the next. However, many people do not seem to appreciate this European performance to such a great extent. At the same time, people who oppose compulsory introductions are often accused of heartlessness, inhumanity, or unChristian attitude. I think we're rejecting that, too. We could, of course, share many of the Scriptures, which can be linked here. Allow me to quote one of the books of the Son of the Sirak: "Hold your partner by your hand, but be careful not to be trapped. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I think that's what we're supposed to do. I do not think there is any debate between sober-minded people in Hungary or anywhere else about how to treat a refugee. Those who have really fled must be helped, accepted, as Hungary has done, whether they are minors or adults, and given everyone the care provided for by the international treaties, which my fellow Member Aradski has already quoted. For minors much more; there we said that there should be no difference between Hungarian or non-Hungarian minors, they should receive the same treatment and the same benefit. So there are no different positions among Hungarian people, Brussels thinkers or any other European people. But who is a refugee and who is an economic immigrant is that migration, as a process, as a social phenomenon, as a historic turning point, has a historical fact for Europe, but in it, I see that there are huge differences. A lot of people like to blur these categories together, and a lot of people are projecting it to us and to Hungarians, too, I hope not to the 3.3 million people who voted with Fidesz-KDNP in the referendum two weeks ago as if we were inhumane. The 3.3 million people who are so often reprimanded on opposition sides did not vote 'no' because they would be racist, inhuman, or anti-refugee. He voted in this way because he values his own country, his own peace, his own security, his own culture, his own identity, and he wants to protect it from those who wish to appear in Europe in an illegal and mass manner. The great danger to which the fundamental law amendment also refers and which it seeks to protect Hungary - and if there will be followers of this in Europe, like many of our other laws, even all of Europe - is to protect it from sudden change and danger. For a society, a radical, short-term, profound change carries enormous risks. [[László Földi is replaced by Attila Móring József in the notary seat.]] If you're just gonna watch XX. The Hungarian history of the centuries, how many political changes, how many huge, profound changes had to be experienced at the end of the First World War, or during the regime that followed it, or during the German occupation, or during the terrible decades of the Soviet occupation, or even the change of regime itself, which was obviously a positive and supportive process for all of us, but still, in many cases, with its massive change, it has taken businesses or families on a completely different path, or it could have destroyed them, because there has been a major change in society, a transformation into globalism, a often too liberal economic and social system. Any change like this is a shock. And this is what we see in Hungary's state and socio-economic state, how much more difficult it is for a country that has to experience a major change of regime per generation, to experience a major social change compared to those who have a more organic development, where there are no sudden major changes. This is what we want to protect Hungary from. Hungary has not been consulted on the previous major changes. The great powers have decided in almost all cases that there is a need for a radical political and social turnaround in Hungary. The next major social change, ahead of which many European countries have the potential for Hungary, is the emergence of tens of thousands or even hundreds of thousands of people within a generation, who would fully build a separate society and carry a great many threats to public security, social, health and terrorism-related cultural and identity, with the potential for change, but we are free to decide on their appearance. And if, in the long term, Hungary is to be protected from radical, rapid change and the possibility of changes in the natural order of life, regulated by the laws, then this fundamental law amendment must be supported, because it seeks to protect Hungary from suddenness, radicalism and changes in the number of very large populations; it does not shut down any channel of humanity, or exclude any other possibility of, of course, coming here to Hungary with a fair and peaceful intention, of course, of course, of course, of course, of course, of course, of course, of course, of course, of course, of course, of course, of course, of course, of course. And that's what we did before we got people's opinions. We have heard many times at many European forums about the need to bring decision-making closer to citizens. Then, when the Hungarian government brought decision-making closer to the people of Europe, the Hungarian people, they immediately protested against it. I think you all know these quotes by heart, and I don't have to tell you. We have therefore asked the people and have authorised 3.3 million people to adopt these legislative amendments. I could also say that we have 3 million 360,000 reasons why we should accept this amendment to the basic law, and we have 55,000 reasons why we do not have to accept it. The ratio between the two is clear. [[17 .30]] The argument of those who refer to those who are absent is very weak, and I am not thinking here of those who are absent from the parliamentary debate in the first place, but of those who are absent from the vote, because the non-voters have never formed a government, they have never entrusted anyone with the creation of any law in the history of humanity - it cannot be different now. Allow me to draw your attention to a very dangerous trend in this fundamental law amendment, which we can see in Europe or in other international organisations of recent decades, and sovereignty can very easily be challenged and the countries' true intentions can be turned to the opposite. It is about Hungary being a member of several international organisations, Hungary being part of the European Union. Certain concepts of law, certain concepts that appear in the practice of these international bodies, are given an extension interpretation by the executive or administrator or representative bodies of this body which were never intended for any country at the time of accession. Or the international councils and bodies of these organisations subjugating rights, possessing rights from the participating Member States that were not mentioned at the time of accession. This is a reduction of sovereignty which in many cases does not have a say in the Member States when this is done through a practice of customary law or interpretation of law. They quite simply realize that they are joining an international convention based on the protection of human dignity or human rights, and what they suddenly thought was equal rights, human rights protection, they are endowed with content in the case law of international courts or bodies that we say, on the basis of natural thinking or natural sense of law, they have never thought of. And suddenly, a Member State sees that it has joined an international agreement to protect freedoms, and then it has to defend its own freedoms against this body. Did we ever think, say, that the Strasbourg court would ever demand the removal of the red star from the penal code? When we joined these conventions, we were not prepared for such interpretations. We didn't think the organizations were carrying these rights for themselves. And it is no different in the case of the European Union. We did not join them to decide who can live and who can't live in Hungary; to whom we should grant a residence permit or to whom we should grant citizenship. We joined because it had its own economic or political reasons, but there were no such permissions. And it is necessary to stop the international organizational tendencies in defending sovereignty when organisations declare such powers themselves. They have no direct contact with the electorate; voters carry sovereignty, and therefore cannot establish such powers for themselves. And the XXI. In the first half of the 20th century, the most striking thing about this huge issue is that the biggest issue in Europe is social in Europe, and it is the question that affects all the countries and citizens of Europe, when a European body, the Commission, begins to carry out such powers for itself. We must also stop this because they will also do so in other powers, and decision-making will slip out of the hands of national parliaments, since we can't even establish the powers that we practice together, but these joint organisations will start to establish certain powers for themselves. We have to stop this at all costs. This is contrary to the Hungarian constitutional system, to the Hungarian legal system and to the idea of sovereignty. I think a lot of people in this area are also asking what kind of Europe they want, a federal Europe, a Europe of nations. We ourselves, Christian democrats, want a Europe based on the brotherhood of European nations, but at the same time it is a much more concrete issue than the fundamental law amendment. Here we have to decide who we live with, who lives at the end of the street, who lives in the respective settlements here in Hungary. It is not just an abstract debate with legal concepts, but a specific issue of coexistence. That is why it is important to give a clear answer on this issue, because it is a meaty issue that concerns everyday life. Just as every European citizen, every Hungarian person, has rights and obligations, it is no different to those who want to settle here; obviously they must live their lives according to our laws and cannot ignore them. We are talking about a rather strong conflict, a rather strong civilized friction surface, perhaps stronger than friction, because fundamentalist Islamism, which has appeared in Europe, is a huge threat not only to Christianity as a religion, but also to an ideal system on which democracy, the rule of law and majority decision-making have been created in the last centuries, thanks to which we owe both the equal rights of citizens and the equal protection of human dignity for all citizens. They are in danger, because of a Brussels fantasy, because of the idea of an internationalist elite, which does not see in this the danger that 3.3 million Hungarians saw, which would mean self-destruction in an unlimited resettlement. We do not want to achieve a globalist mindset, we do not want to make decisions for a European leadership with an identity problem, but we want to make decisions for the national interest. And that is what the left-wing opposition may never understand or manage what the national cause means, what the national interest means, even if 3.3 million people yell at the left-wing ears, that this is an issue that has overwhelmed all party boundaries with the election of October 2nd, because there was no man among those voting with no voters who did not belong to either party or any party who is sympathetic. At the same time, they have not seen it, and by not being here now, they are not participating in this debate, they cannot continue to rise above the day-to-day party battles. It may be because the different left-wing groups, MSZPs, DKs, co-conspirators and others, are competing in who is more radical and who will be the leading spiritual power of the left by 2018. And in this may be small-time, pull it between each other, let it loose in a game they cannot rise above these party lines or the boundaries between opposition parties and government parties in a national matter. However, they also give a very bad message with all of this, because, as has been said several times today, in the referendum, they said that it is a wrong question, so they do not want to take part in the vote, but we are talking about a clear declaration that we would put in the Fundamental Law, and Hungary can, in the long term, be a guarantee of national identity and security, but they are not here. This means trying to reduce the legitimacy of both the referendum and the current amendment of the basic law as much as possible. And this reduction of legitimacy can serve no other purpose than that, once they are in power according to their own calculations, they will be able to move back from this Hungarian national decision, this national case, and it will be easier for them to implement the will of Brussels and make Hungary part of the compulsory forced resettlement system. We can remember from 2008 when any kind of order came from the direction of Brussels to the Gyurcsány-Bajnai Cabinet, which steps must be taken because the economic situation is untenable, all of them carried out without criticism. We have no reason to believe that they would behave differently on this other issue. And I think that it is becoming less and less understandable for voters that Jobbik, when there is such a proposal for a resolution, more specifically a proposal amending the basic law, does not deal with it, does not deal with protecting national identity. [[Dóra Dúró: What do you do now?]] He's only been dealing with Fidesz-KDNP at this stage of the debate for hours, even though in a national case, he might be able to tell us what his real position is. Of course, on European Union issues, we have seen Jobbik on his side of leaving the European Union and on his side of the European Union. Obviously, there are quite a lot of changes in right-wing positions; they may be worth adding to the year. So we can be afraid that it might even change on the issue of immigration. But if we succeed in putting Hungary into the Fundamental Law now, we can protect Hungary in the long term, and in the long term we can make Hungary a peaceful and growing Hungary, a country that is proud of its identity, which preserves its identity, but which is friendly and inclusive to all people with peaceful intentions. In addition, as a country that seeks to help people in trouble in the international arena where the trouble itself has been caused, it does not want to bring trouble to Hungary and Europe. That is why I am asking you to vote in favour of this amendment to the basic law. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2016-10-17-243	Thank you very much, Congressman. No one came forward for a two-minute speech. We will continue with the proper speeches. From the Fidesz Group, Mr L. Simon László is next. Here you go, Congressman. [[17.40]]
u2016-10-17-244	Thank you very much. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, I am sorry that Congressman Staudt did not stay in because I would just like to address the issue that he missed, the problem of constitutional identity. In the seventh amendment of Hungary's Fundamental Law, the terms constitutional identity and constitutional identity appear as new concepts. According to the addition of the National Creed, it is a fundamental duty of the state to protect our constitutional identity, which is rooted in the historical constitution. And the following paragraph is added to Article R of the Fundamental Law: The protection of the constitutional identity of Hungary is the duty of all the authorities of the State. According to the detailed justification, the European Union is a community of rights and values which respects the constitutional identity of its Member States, its own right to decide on the most fundamental issues of the statehood of the Member States. Article 4 (2) of the Treaty on European Union explicitly indicates that the Union respects the principle of equality between Member States and the national identity of the Member States, which is an integral part of their political and constitutional arrangements. The definition of the national identity of the Member State is, mutatis mutandis, the most fundamental, indisputable right of that State and of the political community which forms it, which appears primarily but not solely in its constitution. It is therefore appropriate for the political community of the State, through the constitutionalist, to lay down certain elements of the state's national identity in the Constitution. Of course, the concept of national identity does not cover its constitutional identity, although they are inseparable from each other, because it is a national community, a community identity appearing in the constitution of a country with a history. About that, Gary. In his study entitled The Changes in Constitutional Identity, published in 2011, J. Jacobsohn explains the right:. Constitutional theory typically does not deal with the issue of the identity of the Constitution. However, certain features of constitutions allow us to talk about a kind of constitutional identity, and the dialogue process typical of its formation also allows us to determine its identity after choosing an arbitrary constitution. This identity, which appears as a mixture of many efforts and opinions expressing the nation's past, is constantly being shaped by political and interpretation debates in courts, legislation and other public and private areas. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. The adoption or change of constitutions always requires strong legitimacy or authorisation. In our case, a community, the basic values of the Hungarian state-making national community, largely based on a public agreement, assume the widest possible social support, and although there are obviously those who do not identify with all the points of the National Creed of our Fundamental Law or of the Foundation, but they hardly dispute that the Fundamental Law has made progress in such a way as to preserve the values of the democratic institutional system established after the changes in 1989. Paradoxically, progress can be seen in preserving the important elements of our community and national identity, since we also know from Jacobsohn that the meaning of the constitutionally guaranteed, priority protection is precisely that the constitutionalists provide assurance for the current identity against a later possible but rejected identity. That is why constitutionalisation requires a broad legitimacy, a majority of two-thirds or even more in legislation, because with such a large majority the constitutionalists can rule out that the spirit of the Constitution, the frame of identity it has defined or described, will be changed strongly in the future. The detailed justification for the seventh amendment of the Fundamental Law also states that the interpretation of the relationship between national and EU law in the light of the constitutional identity of each State is on the agenda for the Constitutional Courts of the European countries. Under EU law, the choice of political and social values which Member States consider to be relevant for their national and political identity in their constitutions cannot be called into question. This last sentence makes it clear that instead of a Europe of stealthy federalism, we are thinking of an alliance of equal, sovereign nation states. In this sense, the October 2016 referendum does not require us to redefine the relationship between ourselves and our national constitution to the European Union, since we made it clear, even when we adopted it in 2011, that we do not want to limit our sovereignty beyond the Treaty of Accession and the Treaty of Lisbon. At the same time, the current amendment of the Fundamental Law makes our relationship to the European Community to which we have voluntarily joined and which we are interested in maintaining. This is also the answer to those who believe that the text submitted does not represent a surplus to the current state, compared to the current Fundamental Law, i.e. the amendment proposed by the Government does not restrict the Union in any new way. In addition, the rejecters of the current draft cannot or do not want to put forward valid arguments in favour of their view that the proposal should not be included in the Fundamental Law. Obviously not, because then you would have to question the validity of the concept of constitutional identity, which would mean the inclusion of a political basis that is indefensible from the point of view of communication. Thus, it is much easier to talk about the lack of constitutional constraints, the unnecessaryness and the lack of added content of the basic amendment proposal, citing the nullity of the October referendum and the uncritical protection of the EU institutional system. The National Identity and Constitutional Identity at the European Union and Member States Conference in Szeged in November 2014 in his presentation entitled "The values of the European Union under the Treaties" Mr.Péter Kruzslicz stated that one of the key elements of identity and thus national constitutional identity is that it is specific to the particular system only. It is a matter that the values chosen and the constitutional provisions through which they appear are characteristic of the national system in question, distinguish them from other national systems. The national constitutional identity, says Kruzslicz in his study, thus defines the particular constitutional system and distinguishes it from other constitutional systems with different identities. This coincides with Jacobsohn's opinion that the identity of a constitution is formed through experience, not an abstract invention or well-covered central core embedded in social culture, which is just waiting to be discovered. Instead, identity is formed through a kind of dialogue, and it appears as a mixture of many aspirations and opinions expressing the nation's past, as well as the determination of those who want to overcome this past in some way. It can change, but it is resistant, indestructible, and it can appear in different situations. This amendment is also important because it is another small step towards forcing the leaders of the European Union to comply with their own laws and treaties. As Márton Sulyok explains in his study on the National and Constitutional Identity of the National Constitutional Courts...,.....:. The counter to the disagreements arising from differences between Member States in multi-speed Europe may be that the Union learns to tolerate and abide by its contractual commitments, it actually respects the national peculiarities that individual constitutions and constitutional rights represent in relation to the Member States. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Ladies and gentlemen, This is necessary only because we have experienced that our country is still a matter of full national competence, serious attacks and violations of rights in the case of constitutionalisation, we remember it in 2011. The worst example of this was the Tavares report, on which Mr Kinga Gál rightly noted that the European Parliament played a court in violation of the dignity and sovereignty of the Hungarian Members of Parliament. The document, i.e. the Tavares report, asked for elements at the Hungarian Parliament that the European Parliament did not require of other countries. [[17.50]] In fact, the report attempted to take over the role of the National Assembly elected by Hungarian citizens and to intervene directly in Hungarian public and political issues. - believes our fellow Member Kinga Gál. This procedure goes against the Treaty of the European Union. The adoption of the report was an important lesson: the European Left did not have the necessary majority to launch Article 7 against Hungary, as the Liberals voted against this proposal by a large majority of the EP. It is also important to note that the Tavares report has had neither legal nor budgetary nor economic consequences for Hungary, but, I add, to Kinga Gál's words, it still has an impact on internal policy, since it is a political reference for those who question the legitimacy of the Fundamental Law. The introduction of the concept of constitutional identity into the Fundamental Law is therefore an important act. It makes clear the primacy of national constitutional identity, while unspokenly bearing the need to define the European Union's constitutional identity, and also the need to resolve the relationship between EU and national constitutional identities in the near future. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-10-17-245	Thank you very much, Congressman. From the Jobbik Group, Mr Gergely Farkas, Member of the Group, is next. Here you go.
u2016-10-17-246	Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Dear fellow Members, As my fellow Members have already said here, Jobbik supports the amendment of the basic law, inter alia, based on the principle that we can agree that the leadership of a larger community - in this sense the leadership of the European Union - cannot force its own will on us if a smaller community - in this sense Hungary - does not want it. However, following the same logic - and I recommend to your attention - allow me to talk a little bit about the centre of my constituency, Kiskunhalas, where you have also recently set up an open camp. What's this about? It is a question that, without regard to the will of the voters of Hungary, as a larger community, your government, in this case Kiskunhalas and its surroundings, has set up an open camp to oppose local residents. I believe that there is a clear parallel, if you would like to send a message to the European Union's leadership when amending the basic law, and you consider it important that a larger community cannot impose its will on a smaller community, then I believe that this parallel should stand up for our smaller constituency. You should be consistent and take into account the will of the voters and voters of Kiskunhalas. How much more than Jobbik's ideas are involved, let me draw your attention to the fact that, in the case of Kiskunhalas, there has been a great conspiracy that the city of Kiskunhalas does not request from the open reception centre, they do not want such an institution in Kiskunhalas. Just as Hungary does not want to see migrants here who we do not know with what purpose, where they come from, what their purpose is, the city of Kiskunhalas does not want to see migrants in their settlements who can also be said about. How broad this cooperation is is is good evidence that the mayor of the city, his body of representatives, and even civil society organisations are in the position not to ask for Kiskunhalas from this reception camp. And the fact that the mayor of the city has won the election specifically as a candidate for mayor of your party alliance, your representatives are sitting on the city's body of representatives in the majority, and the city, the parliamentary and pro-government representative of the region, is also against the open reception camp. I don't know how you and Gábor Bányai talk about it at this time - I'd like to address it, but right now it's not there, which, given your parliamentary activity, is not that surprising. [[Defiance in Jobbik's ranks.]] - I would have liked to have listened to his words as to why he would not stand up for his own constituency, why he would not hear the voices of those who spoke there, and also asked Gábor Bányai to do everything in the government to close this camp. Unfortunately, he is silent on this matter here in Parliament, and it is very important. It would be important, because a signature collection also started in Kiskunhalas, a NGO called Konok Kunok's Association, has collected thousands of signatures in order to close this camp. These signatures were given to Gábor Bányai, a pro-government representative, who has since disappeared with these signatures rather than, say, handing them over to the governing party or one of the members of the government in a plenary session, or lobbying for his own city in some other way, instead he disappeared and has been silent on this issue ever since. Ladies and gentlemen of the Government, I ask you to be consistent: if you are saying to a large extent that the European Union cannot force its own will upon a small community, our country, then consider this principle to be a measure of itself, and you do not want to impose your will on a small community. The town of Kiskunhalas and the inhabitants of the area do not want an open reception camp, they do not want people wandering around there. So far there have been many conflicts in the camp, here without the need for completeness: there have been fights, a migrant attack on one of the camp's security guards, migrants have escaped from the camp, there has been a mass fight, and there has been a list of all the problems in the camp. I ask you not to wait for something to happen to the civilian population in the city, the Kiskunhalas, but to prevent trouble, to close the camp. The only positive part of the camp is that it can create jobs, but it would also be possible to create jobs in other ways, instead of this host camp, it would be very necessary to set up a prison for Kiskunhalas, which is supported by the body of representatives there, and the area of other camps could also be used for tourism purposes, so it would be possible to create jobs. I ask you to be consistent and also to do what your fellow Member, Gábor Bányai, supported by his signature, and Jobbik has been saying for a long time that they will close the open refugee camp in Kiskunhalas. Thank you for your attention. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2016-10-17-247	Thank you very much. Mr László Szászfalvi is coming from the KDNP Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2016-10-17-248	Mr President, Dear Parliament, Thank you very much for the floor. Dear Parliament, The seventh amendment of the Fundamental Law concerns the protection of the country, and the protection of the country must be a national issue and a national issue. It's about our safety, it's about public security, it's about national security, it's about the safety of people, our families and our children. The amendment of the Fundamental Law is about our state sovereignty, our freedom and the protection of our independence, it is about protecting our national identity, protecting our mother tongue, our culture, our traditions and our national values, and it is about protecting our Christian-Christian European roots. Dear Parliament, Dear fellow Members, The amendment of the Fundamental Law was not presented to the Parliament in good spirits, it was obviously preceded by the migrant crisis, the European Commission's compulsory introduction quota proposal and its maintenance and, in the case of a referendum, by the overwhelming 98 percent rejection of it. The clear fact, I think, for all of us, is that the migrant crisis is the 21st. The biggest challenge of the century for all of us, and this crisis has found Europe, the European Union, unprepared. Illegal migration is an attempt to conquer managed by smugglers and supported by George Soros's organisations, which the European Union has not been able to respond effectively and quickly. The mandatory resettlement quota imposed by Brussels was a dead case at the beginning, but still the helpless European leaders do not see it. The voluntary quota has also failed completely, and the compulsory quota would be a clearly inconceivable solution, and the punishment of those who reject the quota is an absurd idea. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, This is why the referendum, the expression of the Hungarian people, is of great importance. 3.3 million Hungarians took a clear and clear position that they did not want this to be allowed. They took up a position not to give up the right to decide who we want to live with and how we want to live with. [[18.00]] They took a stand in insisting that Hungary should continue to be a Hungarian country, taking a stand in favour of a Europe of nations and taking a stand in favour of Hungary's sovereignty. Dear Parliament, The amendment of the Fundamental Law means the enforcement of this citizen's will in the Hungarian Fundamental Law. Here and again, I would like to emphasise that there has not been, or is some kind of government, parliamentary action, but rather there has not been and there has not been any hatred. The fundamental law changes for ourselves, for the protection of the country, for the protection of the nation, not against others, but for our national community. Who else would protect Hungarians if not the Hungarian government and the Hungarian Parliament? Who else would stand up for the Hungarian people, the Hungarian families, if not the Hungarian Parliament or the Hungarian government? No one, no one else in the world. Dear Parliament, Dear fellow Members, I would like to respond as Members of the KDNP Parliament, as some of them have done before me, to the speech of Mr Sallai R. Benedek's Big Speech and Warring Competition and to the words of Mr Gábor Fodor - it is a pity that he has gone. We see, and our firm view is that there is a need to make a clear distinction between illegal migration and refugees. In recent months, I believe that the Christian Democratic People's Party and the Government have constantly stressed this clear distinction, and the government has given priority to the work of various charitable organisations, which have been conscientiously carried out in all places where they were needed. At the Croatian-Hungarian border, Barcson and Zakány in my constituency, I have been convinced on many occasions how conscientiously these charitable organizations have done their work alongside the Hungarians and the police. Another question is the aggression and aggressiveness that illegal migrants have sometimes responded to this conscientious work. Ladies and Gentlemen, Ladies and gentlemen, It was the Hungarian government that complied with all international treaties and the rules of the European Union as perfectly as possible, tried to comply with it, and will continue to do so. The recognition of refugees as refugees has been and is still taking place in the strict framework of legal and international treaties. But this cannot be combined with a migratory pressure, a mass of illegal migration attacks and conquests that have put Europe, European societies, European civilisation and European unity in an unmanageable and catastrophic situation, if possible, in the coexistence of different national communities. Dear Parliament, In recent decades, liberal politicians have often been concerned and often feared for us in Hungary and the Hungarian churches to avoid becoming state churches. I am very curious to know when these liberal politicians will be concerned, whether in Hungary or in other Member States of the European Union, or in Member States of the European Union, about the introduction of Sharia as a result of illegal migration and all its consequences. Dear Parliament, I agree with Gábor Fodor on one thing: a strong Europe is needed. We all want a strong Europe, as we hope. But we can certainly see the realization of this, the realization of this, in a very different way. A strong Europe can only be created by the survival and coexistence of strong nations, strong national cultures, strong national identities; unity in diversity, European unity in the diversity of national cultures and nations. The current amendment of the Fundamental Law is therefore very important. [[István Jakab, vice-president of the Parliament takes the chair.]] Dear House, The Fundamental Law is an extremely important document, but it is not a scripture. At a time when the historical situation so requires, when the interests of our citizens, our children and our families so require, it is not a shame, but a duty. One of our bishops put it this way in one of his writings: "It is unfaithful who loves the stranger more than his own. The love, respect, protection of our own is not a shame, but a duty. Duty and responsibility for us together here in Parliament, here in the House of the Country. KDNP intends to add its share to this according to its duty and responsibility. That's what we're asking all the Members of Parliament to do. Thank you for listening. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2016-10-17-249	Thank you very much, Congressman. I welcome once again my fellow Members. Dear Parliament, I now give the floor to Mr Péter Harrach, Head of Group, KDNP Group, for a two-minute speech.
u2016-10-17-250	Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Listening to the speeches, we see that the government side is trying to talk about the text of the constitutional amendment, its truth, its beauty, its elevation - that is right. And the opposition is trying to scold the ruling parties - that's right. [[Dr. István Apáti: Kritika!]] But I would ask you to tell the truth and only the truth, because let me remind you that Márton Gyöngyösi accused us of all voting in favour of the Lisbon Treaty. [[Dr. István Apáti: We read it!]] That's not true. [[Dr. János Latorcai: You have to look!]] Congressman, I'm telling you, just the truth. KDNP fraction did not vote [[István Apáti: Neither do we!]] neither the Lisbon Treaty nor the related constitutional amendment. Thank you for admitting it. [[Dr. István Apáti: I didn't say anything!]] Speaking of which, let me tell you about the principles of the campaign strategy that can be well achieved. The left is about the fact that in Hungary the country and its inhabitants are poor, politicians get rich and push this text to the point of nosebleeds. The Jobbik, it seems, has decided today to talk about Fidesz's representatives in the Union. [[Z. Kárpát, Dániel: It should not have been voted!]] That's not true. There are similar slides, similar to the speech of Gyöngyösi, because about responsible politics, it seems, a party that has never practiced it has no idea. [[Z. Carpathian Daniel: That is not an argument!]] Because the responsible politics, if you look at it, although I don't have time to explain it now: the Canadian Free Trade Agreement is responsible for what we represented. [[Z. Kárpát, Dániel: We think classified treason!]] It will take place over the next two or three years in the ratification debate, where the situation will be different again. Thank you for your attention. [[István Apáti: We'll see!]]
u2016-10-17-251	Thank you very much, Mr. Group Leader. Dear Parliament, The speeches announced in writing will now follow. I give the floor to Congressman Richard Hörcsik, Fidesz Group.
u2016-10-17-252	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, I myself believe that the result of the referendum on 2 October is a direct consequence of the seventh amendment of the Fundamental Law, which serves the security of Hungary and the protection of the competences of the Member States. As the chairman of the Committee on European Affairs, I firmly believe that the European Union, the European Commission, in its current situation, cannot afford to ignore the outcome of a referendum in the Member States. We have seen well that the result of the British referendum, the effect of the Brexit on the whole integration, not only in Great Britain, but also in the 27 Member States of the Union, because it affects all EU policies and institutions. [[18.10]] The aim of this Hungarian referendum was to protect Parliament's powers against the stealthy powers of the European Commission. Yes, it has been said several times that the European Commission has done nothing but by avoiding the European Council's decision in the last six months, by trying to force the compulsory resettlement of Member States, including Hungary, by means of so-called lower-level stealth legislation. That is why I asked at a European Commission meeting, the so-called COSAC meeting, whether the European Union is a community of the states of law. Is there European law and not all Member States have to comply with it? And if someone had to initiate infringement proceedings on the part of the Commission, would the Commission itself have to do so? Ladies and gentlemen, The constitutional basis for our membership of the European Union, as we have heard several times today in the debate, is ensured by Article E of the Fundamental Law. This article is the so-called accession clause, which has again been discussed in today's debate and whose constitutional image dates back to 2002. Under the current Article E, Hungary may exercise some of its powers under the Fundamental Law, together with the other Member States, through the institutions of the European Union. In other words, the delegation of powers can only be carried out for the benefit of the European Union as a member of the European Union. So, as my fellow Member Szájer said, we exercise certain powers together with the other Member States of the European Union. I am also convinced - we have been repeatedly accused - that the basic legislative provision is indeed in line with the Treaty on the European Union, which clearly states that the functioning of the Union is based on the principle of delegated powers. That is to say, all powers which have not been delegated to the European Union by the Treaties remain with the Member States. The exercise of Union powers shall be governed by the principles of subsidiarity and proportionality. The practical application of these principles can be promoted by national parliaments through the procedure laid down in Protocol No 2 of the Lisbon Treaty. But I must also note, ladies and gentlemen, that the delegation of powers by the Member States is not unlimited. The delegation of powers should take place only to the extent necessary for the exercise of rights and the fulfilment of obligations arising out of the EU Treaty, in particular in respect of certain specific subjects referred to in the Treaty. Tempora mutant - times change, said the old Romans. I believe that since the beginning of our membership of the EU more than 12 years ago, it is precisely time for the limits of delegation to be clearly reflected in the Fundamental Law. Ladies and gentlemen, The concept of constitutional identity as part of national identity has been mentioned several times in today's debates. We have also heard that the starting point for national identity is in this respect Article 4 (2) of the Treaty of the European Union, on the basis of which the Union respects the national identity of the Member States. National identities are part of the most important principles of the Constitution of the Member States, which also represent the limitations of EU law to the constitution of the Member States. Article 4 (2) also provides that the Union respects the fundamental public functions, including ensuring the territorial integrity of the State and maintaining public order and the protection of national security. This is also a debate that has happened here several times in the Hungarian Parliament as to whether we have the right to determine for ourselves who we want to live with, to defend the Hungarian borders. Yes, I would also like to emphasise, clearly, that the Article of the European Union, the Lisbon Treaty, states that maintaining public order and protecting national security is a national competence. No matter what anyone says, there's no way to disprove that. Ladies and gentlemen, I note that Article 4 (2) of the Treaty, however, cannot be regarded as a declaration of declaration, and I would also say that it imposes a legal obligation on the EU member institutions and respect for the basic structures of the Member States. However, I think it is also worth bearing in mind that the concept of national identity is not precisely defined, and I say that they mean different things from one Member State to another. It is clear that the EU institutions should adopt a flexible approach to national identities in the Member States. The national identity is not rigid and eternal, but I could also say that it is developing, either through social or constitutional impulses. I would like to mention two examples. The first example is that, as a result of social development, Ireland's national identity today is very different from what it was when the 1937 Constitution was adopted. Indeed, the Irish constitutional referendum of May 2015 on the same-sex marriage decades ago would have been simply unimaginable. There is another excellent example of the change in national identity, which also appears in the Constitution, and the French Constitution was supplemented in 2005 by the so-called environmental charter. I would like to stress that, under EU law, environmental protection is a shared competence between the Union and the Member States and allows the Member State to apply more stringent protective measures than EU law. This is what the French legislator has done by supplementing the Constitution. So with these two examples, I would like to point out that national identity is not rigid and eternal, but an evolving thing in the European Union. Ladies and gentlemen, The current addition to Article E of the Fundamental Law therefore sets out the principles of constitutional identity, state existence and sovereignty at the peak of the Hungarian legal hierarchy. The limitation on the exercise of EU competence is the exercise of the inalienable right of disposal of Hungary's territorial unit, population, state form and state structure on the basis of the amendment of the basic law that we are discussing. Therefore, Hungary did not resign on these rights when it signed the Lisbon Treaty and cannot resign. Ladies and gentlemen, Allow me to finally point out a very important issue regarding the limitations of EU law, the role of the constitutional courts in the Member States. The German Federal Constitutional Court has developed the concept of constitutional identity in its decision on the Lisbon Treaty, and I would say that it has filled the concept of constitutional identity with a new substance, which has been mentioned today. This concept includes decisions on criminal law, decision monopoly on domestic and military deployment, then fundamental financial and budgetary decisions, definition of living conditions in a social state, and issues with a particular cultural dimension, such as family law, school and education systems or the situation of religious communities. [[18.20]] Thus, the current addition to Article 4 of the Act sets out the principles of constitutional identity, state existence and sovereignty at the peak of the Hungarian legal hierarchy. The limitation on the exercise of EU competence is the exercise of the inalienable right of disposal of Hungary's territorial unit, population, state form and state structure on the basis of the amendment of the basic law that we are discussing. Therefore, Hungary did not resign on these rights when it signed the Lisbon Treaty and cannot resign. Ladies and gentlemen, Allow me to finally point out a very important issue regarding the limitations of EU law, the role of the constitutional courts in the Member States. The German Federal Constitutional Court has developed the concept of constitutional identity in its decision on the Lisbon Treaty, and I would say that it has filled the concept of constitutional identity with a new substance, which has been mentioned today. This concept includes decisions on criminal law, decision monopoly on domestic and military deployment, then fundamental financial and budgetary decisions, definition of living conditions in a social state, and issues with a particular cultural dimension, such as family law, school and education systems or the situation of religious communities. (18.20) So, ladies and gentlemen, the regulatory areas listed above can be interpreted as limiting the primacy of EU law. This conclusion was also reached by the Hungarian Constitutional Court, when examining the constitutionality of the Lisbon Treaty - I remember this very well in 2010 - because in 2010 the Constitutional Court pointed out that the Lisbon Treaty does not create a European superstate. The activities of the European Union as an independent legal entity can continue to be managed and controlled by the governments of the Member States. Allow me to briefly quote 143/2010. one of the parallel explanations of the resolution, which is directly linked to Minister Trocsányi, the then Constitutional Judge. In addition, it is important to recall that when Member States transferred part or the exercise of their sovereignty to Community bodies, they did not give up on the substance of their statehood, sovereignty and independence, and on the basis of their state order. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. So, in my opinion, it is clear that the EU legal order, even after the Lisbon Treaty, does not vacate the basic rules on state independence and sovereignty. I believe it is very important to note in this debate, ladies and gentlemen, that the amendment of the Fundamental Law is committed to expressing or strengthening the constitutional identity on the basis of the mandate given to the electorate. The addition of Article E is therefore not directed against EU law, it fully complies with it and is also in line with the constitutional protection measures of the Member States. Mr President, On the basis of the above, I welcome the amendment tabled by the Prime Minister on behalf of the Government and ask my fellow Members to support its adoption as soon as possible. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-10-17-253	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congresswoman Dóra Dúró, Jobbik Group. Here you go, Congresswoman.
u2016-10-17-254	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, The amendment of the Fundamental Law is perhaps the most serious and responsible task of the Parliament, so I think that in the debate on this matter it would also be such an attitude that would be expected of Members. Since this is the most serious task of the Parliament, it is always worth talking a little about political culture, because it provides a lot of lessons for both voters and ourselves to see how individual parties, individual Members, manifest themselves in relation to a fundamental law amendment. Perhaps we can also say that this is the most effective, the most important of all the amendments to the Fundamental Law so far, this is what best determines the fate of our country in the long term. I feel that with regard to the amendment of this Fundamental Law, Article XX. The political culture of the 20th century is still very deep, extremely visible in Hungary, and quite simply the representatives of the parties are operating according to their own logic rather than taking into account the national interest. After the referendum, it was clear that there would be a competition for interpretation, and this referendum, which, although not legally valid, still had 3.3 million people expressing the same opinion, would be evaluated differently by various sides and representatives of different parties. But the fact that the ruling parties are conflicting with themselves shows how much confusion there is. Not only are there contradictions within the party, but there is a State Secretary, namely Csaba Dömötör, who also expressed conflicting opinions on the referendum: he once said that the people voted for Viktor Orbán and Viktor Orbán's politics, and then said that the result of the referendum was free from party politics and should not be related to persons or parties. In terms of validity, they often refer to, on the one hand, the countries where this referendum would have been valid. However, my honourable fellow Member, you believe that the countries where this would have been applicable did not create good regulations, because the regulation which raised the validity threshold to such a level was created by you. So you can refer to any other country, to any international example, to previous regulations in Hungary, you thought that the best regulation on the validity of the referendum was what we have now. You created this, so don't refer to previous referendums or to the regulation of referendums in other countries, because you didn't choose those solutions. Even today, Szilárd Németh tried to protect this, saying that he wanted to give his seriousness to the institution of the referendum. Does Szilárd Németh think that declaring the will of 3.3 million people in a referendum is not serious enough? The serious thing is, if a referendum is valid, can it only be taken seriously? Because you protected the regulations that you created. If you can take that seriously, can't you take it seriously? That's what's gonna happen. Their statements about the opposition, I think, are the best way to show how much XX. The political culture of the century: they argue with the socialists that they are not here, the socialists are not involved in the debate. It is okay for each of your Members to give their views on this and, by the way, they are rightly whipped for this, but the fact that every Member or every other speaker begins to argue with the position of the socialists is quite simply pathetic. We should not be arguing with the socialists, but we should work to make the text of the Fundamental Law as clear as possible and to provide as much protection as possible in relation to the specific case. Both Mr Szászfalvi and Bence Rétvári called for duty and responsibility in the opposition, beating Jobbik. Ladies and gentlemen, We are the ones who are sitting here in the knowledge of this duty and responsibility, and we have voted for the two-thirds laws for you, for example, even when we had to allow the defence to run the border, and not to keep Viktor Orbán in power, and not because we would be little brothers of Fidesz, as the socialists used to whip us, but because we really regard this as a national matter, and we will not change our position on the fundamental law amendment in relation to Bence Rétvári's accusations. Thank you for your attention. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2016-10-17-255	Thank you, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, A speech will be made by Mr István Hollik, Member of the KDNP Group. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2016-10-17-256	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, However, it is worth reflecting for a short thought, I think, on the words of Dóra Dúró. I do not know, you or our better fellow Members seem to be trying very hard to convince each other that this referendum was an unnecessary procedure. Nevertheless, we believe that this is not true, and we believe that this referendum was necessary in order to get people's opinions. [[Dóra Dúró: Didn't you know?]] In this respect, we consider the opinion of almost 3 million 400 000 people to be important, and in this respect, what is our further task and what is our duty, we also consider it to be a briefing proposal, because it is quite clear that more people voted against forced resettlement than to enter the European Union. If we have accepted it as a right and legitimate decision, and we have accepted it because we want to belong to the European Union, and that opinion has not changed now, then I think that we should also consider this decision politically valid. The other question is: you can question our words, but I think, as you accuse us of being irresponsible, I think it is also irresponsible for you to question the Fidesz-KDNP's move, which would aim to protect our country. You keep saying that we are the ones who are telling you that we are the ones who are not trying to protect our country from this danger. [[18.30]] I think that is an irresponsible argument. If you were to stay on the ground of sobriety - although I understand that your political interests require you to do so - then you wouldn't accuse us, you wouldn't attack us with that. Since there have been numerous arguments in the debate regarding the seventh amendment of the Fundamental Law, I will try not to repeat them, and in my speech I would like to briefly explore the concept of constitutional identity which is now to be included in the Fundamental Law. Even with its existence, the constitutional identity has brought a dilemma of a legal and political nature that has seemed to rest in Europe over the last decade, since the old continent, Europe's past decades, has been about prosperity, stability, prosperity, the growth of European people, and it has been about how we have been able to avoid war conflicts for 60 years. So the existence and existence of the European Union meant security and prosperity for the people of Europe, and they were used as a synonym for these words. Therefore, the legal boundaries of European cooperation, the debates on the territory of the Member States or the population, ethnic composition and culture of a nation state were not mentioned in this context, since there was no direct threat to these issues, these debates. We can see that this situation changed radically in 2008, as the economic crisis threatened the well-being that held the Member States of the European Union together as tyres without a common European identity. This uncertain situation was compounded by the recent migration in 2015, which, in addition to economic well-being, also eliminated the sense of security for Europeans. Thus, in the absence of a common European identity, in crisis situations, it is natural that debates on our identity and national sovereignty have been strengthened again, perhaps with the same strength as never before in the history of the European Union. If we are thinking about debates on constitutional identity, it is clear that this has a political dimension and a legal nature. Let's start with law. At the moment, the continent of Europe is in the face of the struggle between different legal systems and courts. József Szájer and Minister of Trocsányi have already talked about this. It can be said that there are scheming and powerful giants here, such as EU law and the Luxembourg court watching over it, or even the European Convention on Human Rights and the Strasbourg court acting as a platform for the Convention. Both of them are representatives of the supranational level, but the interesting thing is that there is not even peace among them, to put it mildly. We can also see an example of this, because the Lisbon Treaty clearly contains the provision that the European Union accedes to the European Convention on Human Rights, so that the Luxembourg court, the Court of Justice of the European Union, should be brought to the Strasbourg Court on matters relating to the Convention. That seems pretty clear, let's face it. There was also a great surprise at European level when, in one of its opinions, the Luxembourg court essentially torpedoed this accession agreement. It did so largely with reference to arguments relating to the autonomy of the EU legal order and to the rules of competence. At the same time, it was clear to everyone that the Luxembourg court was strongly reluctant to drive its head into the yoke of the Strasbourg court. Right now, everyone's looking for a way out, but the tension hasn't calmed down. In addition to the fight at supranational level, there is also another dimension, which can be described as a fight between the supranational and national levels of state. Potential issues of tension can be identified around the Court of Justice of Luxembourg and Strasbourg, which enforces supranational law, and the Constitutional Court of the Member States, which guards the constitutional legal order of the nation state. The amendment of the basic law before us in this respect, at least by incorporating the concept of constitutional identity in Hungary, as many have already mentioned, defines entities without which we cannot speak about national sovereignty, it clearly decides that. It clarifies that our Fundamental Law takes precedence over EU law as regards the territory of the country and its population. The political debates on constitutional identity may be even more visible than the legal ones discussed earlier, and we can see that this is still taking place, and that the position of the opposition and the ruling parties in this amendment reflects this debate in part. Moreover, the fact that, for example, the left does not participate in this debate and has already declared that it will not vote for the amendment of the Fundamental Law, it is quite clear which position he voted in favour of, since the parties who are fighting can be identified here and are similar to those of a legal nature. There are those who want to build a multicultural, federal Europe with supranational leadership that will remove the powers and sovereignty of national parliaments. They say that immigration is a good and even a cure for all the troubles in Europe. We can see that this opinion is clearly shared by the European Left and Liberals. If we look at the discussions on quota in the European Parliament or even here in the walls of the Hungarian Parliament, we can see that the European Left clearly shares this position and supports compulsory resettlement quotas. On the other side of this struggle, we, the 3.3 million people who do not want to live in this Europe, even saying that if we go this way, the continent will be in a hurry to its death. We believe in a strong Europe built on nation states, which is based on Christianity. Yes, we Christian democrats believe that our constitutional identity includes the cultural tradition - not only the composition of our population, not just the territory of the country, but also the cultural tradition - that we call Christianity. We therefore believe that our primary responsibility is to protect this heritage and to pass it on to our offspring. We therefore support the amendment of the Fundamental Law before us, and I ask my fellow opposition and pro-government Members to do the same. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-10-17-257	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, We now have a speech from Congressman Bence Tuzson, Fidesz Group. Here you go, Congressman, Secretary of State.
u2016-10-17-258	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, If we are talking about amending a Fundamental Law, we should put some concepts in place, since there were concepts here. I am very sorry that the representatives of LMP are not in the room, because they have suggested that there is a Fundamental Law and sometimes we are talking about a Constitution, and what it is to use the same word for two of the same concepts. Well, it may be, ladies and gentlemen, that we sometimes use the same concept and treat these two concepts as synonyms, but if we are talking about amending a Fundamental Law, it is appropriate to know between the walls of this House that there is a difference between the Fundamental Law and the Constitution, because, under the Constitution, we mean a broader set of rules based on Hungarian public-law traditions and from a legal-dogmatical point of view than under the Fundamental Law, so the Constitution means all the rules under which a country operates. One important element of this, but not the sole element of the Fundamental Law. That is why the basic laws of the different countries sometimes define broader and sometimes narrower rules, since the requirement of constitutionality is complemented not only by the Fundamental Law but also by the additional legislation associated with it. It was raised here in the debate whether such support, the 3 million 360,000 people's votes, were strong enough to amend the Fundamental Law in Hungary and whether this reflects the opinion of the majority of people. Well, if we came from the logic from which Gábor Fodor started, we could say that today Hungary would not be a member of NATO, today Hungary would not be a member of the European Union. [[18.40]] After all, not as many people voted in favour of accession in these votes as many people voted against in the 2016 referendum in Hungary. So legitimacy, which also means a kind of legal legitimacy in this respect, but rather a kind of political legitimacy, creates a strong and a kind of obligation. It creates an obligation for the Hungarian Parliament to deal with this issue and to confirm the people's intentions, whether by amending the basic law or otherwise. After all, the new unity that has been created for Hungary in this referendum creates an obligation, and the current amendment of the basic law is accordingly. It is an obligation, and that is what I say to my better fellow Members, because it is not a request. It is not, as Gábor Staudt said, that here the pro-government representatives would now make a request to Jobbik to support the amendment of the Fundamental Law, but, on the other hand, there is an obligation, an obligation to be committed to the direction in which such a large majority of people, a new unit, took a stand. Accordingly, you, too, my fellow Members, have an obligation to do so. We are not talking about literally putting a referendum decision into the Fundamental Law. Again, I say this to my fellow Members of the LMP, who are not in this Chamber right now. But what we are talking about here is that in order to have an idea that appeared in a referendum and we want to raise it to a fundamental level, it is a level that is quite high, which then creates a framework, and within these frameworks the decision that people made in the referendum can be applied. This is also the case with the current Fundamental Law, which contains several rules on this matter. It is no coincidence that specifically, expressis verbis states that a foreign population cannot be installed in Hungary. There was a question of whether the concept of introduction even exists, so what we are talking about when we are talking about resettlement. We are also talking about European law and the European Commission's practice. When the European Commission talks about resetment or relocation, these are two different concepts. Relocation means that immigrants already in the European Union must be divided in some form, this is the system of compulsory resettlement that we usually talk about; or otherwise, reset means those people, and we talk about the danger that arises every day in the European Commission when they want to bring people in from outside the European Union and also distribute them according to a quota in the territory of the European Union. The provision of the Hungarian Fundamental Law is clear, the provision of this amendment is clear now, and it is also clear that this is in line with European law. This is an important point in this regard, because we are now putting a rule in the Fundamental Law, which is, by the way, an existing rule, either in the world of thought or in the words of it, but there are other European rights, other European fundamental laws and constitutions. This is an important point in terms of what the European Union or the European Commission will say about this amendment later, i.e. whether it can say something about it. Here we need to address a very important issue that we have discussed before. This question is how Hungarian law is related, how national law is related to European law. Is there such a thing as the superiority of European law, or is there no such thing as the superiority of European law? If we are to clarify this issue, we should basically start from what is the source of European law. On the part of the European Union, there has been a stealthy legislation since the 1970s, i.e. it wants to include rules in European legislation that are in national competence. Several times, several Constitutional Courts rejected this. They even said that, in particular, the German Constitutional Court has several decisions in this regard, that even when there are powers conferred or exercised jointly, national law, national constitutions, are the limit to the powers exercised. Because we are also talking about the involvement of powers that may affect national sovereignty, constitutional identity, so that we can talk about the concepts that have already been mentioned and expressed in detail. Accordingly, if we are talking about European law, the source of this is national law, as it is national law that has allowed us to conclude our Treaty of Accession to the European Union at all times. So here, in the hierarchy, it is above the application of national law and, in particular, the national constitution to the application of European law. Thus, a European rule, a European Union rule, can be said at any time to conflict with a national constitution, contrary to the rule of the Constitution, and therefore its national applicability may be excluded in this respect. That is why it is important that our fundamental law amendment contains a European solution if Parliament accepts it, which is otherwise acceptable in Europe, reflects the opinion of the people, the will of the people who stood up for unity in the referendum and for Hungary, and can be protected at all European forums, is in line with the practice of the European Constitutional Courts, and is also in line with European constitutions and fundamental laws. As far as the political part of this current amendment of the basic law is concerned, people are sometimes surprised. Not on the part of the socialists who did not come, although earlier, before the referendum, they said that if a regulation in this regard comes before Parliament, they will support this regulation. Well, it seems from the benches now that this support is not available, and this support has been rejected in words. More surprisingly, however, is the behaviour and behaviour of LMP. For a time, it seemed that they would support an increase in this type of regulation in Hungary, this level of protection, the level of protection in Hungary. Now, when it was time for such a fundamental amendment to be on the table of Parliament, they would withdraw from this amendment. There is no need to categorize the comment that has been made here on this amendment to the basic law, but in any case it cannot be considered as a supporting contribution that Sallai R. Benedek has made here in the Parliament, or the co-chairman of the LMP has said here earlier. The most important thing is that political support must and will be provided for such a fundamental amendment. In other words, this form of amendment of a Fundamental Law has the will of the people, and the referendum that took place in Hungary was related to this, and the attacks on the referendum itself are unworthy of this. You can't say that to people who went to the referendum and decided that they were irresponsible people. That's what I'm saying to my better fellow Members. They're not irresponsible people. They're gone, they're serious, and they're seriously voting. In a referendum where more people have gone, which was a more successful referendum than any of the previous referendums, more people have voted in one direction than in any of the referendums that have existed since 1990. So the will of these people cannot be ignored. And there are certain mistakes that need to be resolved. Here it was said from their group leader how much Britain spent in the case of the Brexit referendum, the taxpayers there, to conduct this referendum. Well, my fellow Members, that amount corresponds to approximately HUF 50 billion of Hungarian forints, so the figures and figures that your fellow Member, your group leader, said were quite wrong in this regard. It is not possible to compare the two, obviously, but it should be noted that there we are also talking about a country of a completely different order of magnitude, obviously with more money, the campaign that was going on here in Hungary. But the other part of this story is that it is not necessarily from the numbers in this matter. It is not a matter of whether people are asked at a cost or not. After all, asking people on a fundamental issue, on what kind of European Union we want, is important, and this cannot be considered irresponsible, because it is a kind of obligation. It's the duty of every government. There was no such problem at the last parliamentary elections, this problem was not yet known, and when people authorised the Fidesz-KDNP alliance to govern, they did not yet take a position on the fundamental issue of what kind of European Union we want on this issue. [[18.50]] It was therefore our duty to ask the opinion of the people, and the people, by a significant majority, have expressed their views on this, and this must be followed by us, Members of Parliament, and this must be reflected in the amendment of the Fundamental Law, and this must be supported, and I ask my fellow Members, Members and factions who are not present in this Chamber. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-10-17-259	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Mr Dániel Z. Kárpát, Member of the Jobbik Group, will now take the floor. I give you the floor.
u2016-10-17-260	Mr President, Dear House, I do not wish to respond much to what has been said, I wish I could. It is quite sanctimonious to the argument of my pro-government fellow Member that they are only doing what they are authorized to do after a referendum. My colleague Szávay and I have been working on the fact in the last few seconds that the Fundamental Law itself has been managed without social authorisation. It's not like a referendum hasn't been issued about who you discussed the details with, please? Then they shut down entire economic sectors, think about some part of the land market, think about the abuse of tobacco. So let's just leave it alone, play it straight, try it. There is only one political force in this force field, which consistently represented a position protecting its nation on this issue, and that is Jobbik. [[Dr. István Apáti: It may hurt, but it's the truth.]] The facts that you have not dared to respond to here have been repeated here, and you have not dared to enter into the debate as a man; you have been drawn to a cowardly, feeble smile, as if you were right behind your large vests, but the fact is that you have not been able to answer the specific questions. The specific questions are as follows. How is it that when Jobbik brought the idea of a referendum to Parliament, you guys wiped it out with stupid excuses? How could it have been that, at the time of the incident in Röszke, when this referendum could have been written out, it could have been accepted, it could have been made valid, because it was a social public mood, it was a Middle East railway station, there were migrants marching on the highway; yes, it could have been a valid referendum, your representatives said that this was not a good method, this was an inadequate assessment of the dangers, and it would be at all uncertain to go into such a battle. The thing is, they waited a year before the social community changed to a state where the validity was no longer certain, but you decided that the referendum had to be carried out. And what did they do? When the validity became questionable in the last one or two weeks, although you blamed Jobbik for not mobilizing enough, your Prime Minister Viktor Orbán personally resigned from this campaign. Where did your prime minister hold a series of residential forums? Nowhere. The Fidesz majority László Sümegen Toroczkai held a public forum. Gábor Vona also held such a forum. Where has the Prime Minister been for the last two weeks? Answer that. Why has personal mobilization been saved on this issue, and why are they trying to smear responsibility? In the beginning, the justification for this was ridiculous, since the whole referendum process was set up as a success, but the Jobbik was held responsible for the alleged failure. So they made a mean double speech then. Then there was the next step when it came to a completely legitimate amendment of the basic law. Let's remember when. My fellow Member Hollik, we have had our debates on this, and we have not just come up with the idea of amending the basic law. The Jobbik brought this in front of the House. You know that very well. I think you also know on what day of the month it happened, there were several times like this. And what happened then? In front of the Justice Committee, what did you say, say, Imre Vas or, say, President Rubovszky? What were the reasons when you swept down the Fidesz referendum issue into the Fidesz Fundamental Law? That was Jobbik's suggestion. You said that this was uncertain, that we had not properly assessed the problem. Do you know him from somewhere? And at all, we're not handling the situation properly. The same intention to amend the basic law a few months later, putting the country in jeopardy until then, is displayed before us, even though when Jobbik brought this in, so once again, the same concept, what did President Rubovszky say when he thought the cameras were no longer spinning? It means that he will prevent the better fundamental law-alignment proposal from going through, even at the cost of house-breaking. They have also been able to do this despicable thing because you are playing with this country. They took Hungary into a Russian roulette, a gambling game where your explanation smells of pitifully sweaty. Are you trying to justify an invalid referendum? How much will this explanation be worth in Brussels Square? Ridiculous! You have broken Hungary's negotiating positions. These negotiating positions were crushed by what was in that final document at the last meeting of the Visegrád people? And please respond to that when you press a button. In the final document of the Visegráds, how could it be said that, where appropriate, labour is imported into different areas of shortage or that intra-European labour movement is thus facilitated for workers from third countries? Please also explain to me how it could have been that Mihály Varga, your Minister of National Economy, admitted that he had any intention that the government had the intention of importing foreign workers from third countries to Hungary. Mr Hollik, where would you like to import the labour force? Secretary of State, where are you going to plant aliens here for seasonal work? And if they were to be brought here only seasonally, why are they talking about coming from third countries from which their integration is easier? Secretary of State, are you getting into seasonal work? Don't make us look like birds. Answer these specific questions, which our group leader has asked, and you have drowned in a pathetic laughing process that is not unfolding because your speakers are arguing with the socialists who are not here. Answer me, then, how the Visegrád final document ended with workers from third countries. Answer me why President Rubovszky wanted to cancel what you are bringing to us as a novum as part of the Fidesz Freedom Fight; I am sorry, as well as KDNP, because my fellow Member Hollik was trying to defend it. Explain to us why Commissioner Navracsics did not in fact veto this concept in your colours when the concept of fines for unaccepted migrants came up in Brussels. Because it can be explained that the Commissioners are independent, of course, they can't represent their country, but you sent this man there. And while we are at it, why did the Fidesz MEPs vote in favour of the TTIP in Brussels, why were they allowed or why are the CETA now allowed, why do they consider to be useful for Hungary the madness that comes with an economic heavy bombing? May I continue to ask why, on open hostels in Hungary, this current government spends more on supporting a migrant every day than on a Hungarian jobseeker or a patient in a hospital? Because the written question of my fellow Member Apáti revealed this at the level of the figures. And you should be arguing with numbers, not with us and not with the far-off socialists. I can ask you one more question. Where's the independent border guard? 1300 people who are to be deployed here are rightly fighting, obviously not against the people, but against the mechanism, but at the same time the flow through our borders is continuing, because you are unable to establish an independent border guard with sufficient efficiency. Our officers and our soldiers would have to do their job elsewhere, and you know it very well, but they don't even assign the right budget resources here, they're pursuing the same two-seater policy as many other issues. Where appropriate, the Lisbon Treaty can also be brought here, yes, but now CETA is the best example of where Hungary's self-resignation is carried out with almost two thirds of a mandate at government level. Do you want to allow them to ratify an agreement where multi-companies can sue states before elected courts? They are preparing to ratify this. They're gonna get themselves caught up in some incredible treason. And they teach the opposition, the one here, and the part that is otherwise very inappropriately far away, what they should be doing on the basis of the concept that Jobbik has brought into the House as a fundamental amendment; which was then canceled with false reasons, and now they expect us to give us the support that they know we will give in the event of a proper text, because we are not guided by party policy, but by national interests, clearly, but look into themselves a little bit. Look at why the same concept has been canceled with a completely different argument system, and why they are now supporting the same concept. Where did this double game come from? Why do they have such a lack of confidence? With almost two-thirds authority? Why do we have to keep doing this tickle? Why must the closing documents be sanctioned in Brussels and the verbal war at home be waged against it? Why do Visegrád countries have to sign this at their meetings? Why should your own minister talk about the import of labour when no amendments to the VET Act have been introduced here since then, according to which we can train the masses of professionals in deficiency professions with the appropriate efficiency. Why isn't he in front of us? Why haven't you brought him in in the last few months? [[19.00]] Answer that. Specific issues with specific dates. We have listed their specific, signed methods of treason and their shortcomings and omissions, without which - the fundamental law amendment or not - the basic problem cannot be solved, and at that time we have not even discussed the demographic crisis. But in addition to supporting any well-intentioned initiative, you should be able to resolve these doubts. However, from their confused laughter, we conclude that, thanks to their two-gallon policy, they are again unable to answer these questions, and that the third Orbán government is not able to function as a responsible cabinet. We're very sorry that Jobbik will have to change that. Thank you for your attention. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2016-10-17-261	Thank you. Dear Parliament, Statement will be made by Mr Zoltán Demeter, Fidesz Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2016-10-17-262	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Identity has already been mentioned, and I believe that all of this is because identity is a defining concept in this bill or in this debate. As is well known, identity is a Latin word meaning identity. Identity is a world of identity, that is, who I am, namely, a particular permanence, in the sense of identity. Then an important component of identity is group belonging, social identity in a narrower sense. The social identity is an identification with a group, so the transformation of the me into the what. According to Erikson's theory, a person's 20s usually ends the age of the identity crisis and the identity of the individual develops. If we count on Hungary's years from the change of regime, then we can say that we are just in time to fix our constitutional identity, of course not forgetting our more than a thousand years of history, from which our national identity can feed. Ladies and gentlemen, I think it's the 21st. The challenge of the century, which is a great test of both the individual and the nation states, is to unite, to fight against homogenisation efforts, of course, for those who have such intentions at all. I am convinced that without identity in this struggle, we may already be able to say that we are coming unarmed and that we have nothing to protect. One of the achievements of globalisation and perhaps its objective is to make the same products and services available almost anywhere in the world. Bringing demand together with supply is, of course, the easiest thing to do if the consumer group is also homogeneous. I do not want to go too far; I just want to make it clear that, in my view, this is also about the struggle of ideologies, because there are absolute supporters of globalisation, and there are still people who believe in the future and power of nation states. The seventh amendment of our basic law is also a declaration that the Hungarian nation has self-identity, that is, we have a constitutional identity, which we are not willing to give up. In a thousand years of struggle, after our historical trials, we do not want to become a melting pot of peoples or nations after the dictatorial aspirations. Ladies and gentlemen, The opposite of identity is self-destruction. On 2 October, Hungarian citizens could decide which one to choose. And I am convinced that the Hungarian people have considered the possibilities and made the right choice when they took the position in favour of the former, the identity. Given the principle of territoriality, I believe that we cannot speak of a state without defining and protecting its borders. If you like, the concept of the state is inseparable from its borders and, not least, from its safe guarantee. We can only talk about a state if there is and has sovereignty in this specific area. Today, it is a fact that the leaders of the European Union and the majority of the European political elite have chosen self-destruction rather than self-identification, ignored and practically abandoned the borders of the community, as one and a half million people could enter the internal countries of the European Union without any control, thus putting the security of the European Union at risk, but at the same time risk of terrorism, as we have seen in Brussels, Paris or Cologne. In my opinion, as the result of the referendum proves, nearly 3.4 million people do not vote to prove that Hungary is not suffering from identity confusion, and I even hope that in some sense it will wake up now. That is why it is our constitutional responsibility to establish this and the will to vote in the Fundamental Law. On the basis of the arguments put forward, perhaps the proposal before us rightly states from the protection of our constitutional identity that the European Union should not restrict its inalienable right to dispose of Hungary's territorial unity, population, state form and state settlement. As a result of our territorial unity, we Hungarians want to determine who we want to live with here in Hungary. At this point, however, I would like to point out that part of our constitutional identity is what our Fundamental Law states that nationalities in our country are state-creating factors. We naturally undertake to preserve the language and culture of our ethnicities in Hungary, as we know that we are stronger with this too. However, it is not possible to force forced resettlement into Hungary on the basis of different quotas. This was clarified by the participants in the referendum. Therefore, as has already been said here today, the amendment of the basic law submitted states that a foreign population cannot be installed in Hungary. This is the will of 98 percent of voters, which I believe Parliament cannot ignore. Solidarity is an inseparable part of our constitutional identity - and this must also be mentioned - which, in my view, is indisputable in this situation, since Hungary provides protection for the persecuted. [[19.10]] On request, Hungary grants asylum to those who are persecuted in their country because of their race, nationality, religious or political beliefs, or are justified in their fear of persecution. And I believe that this is not only our obligation under international law, but also our moral obligation from our history. In addition to solidarity, the protection of our language and culture, our socialism and the fixing of the national preservation power of Christianity are also a component of our constitutional identity. And the inclusion of this in the Fundamental Law is of historical importance, i.e. an appropriate weapon to protect our sovereignty, and is also a hope for the future of our nation and Hungary. That is why I ask the honourable Parliament, my fellow Members, to support the amendment of the Fundamental Law before us. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2016-10-17-263	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Mr Staudt Gábor, Member of the Jobbik Group, will take the floor.
u2016-10-17-264	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, I followed the debate, and our fellow Member, Mr Bence Tuzson, said that he was referring to the fact that this was not a request made by the government, but a duty to support this amendment to the basic law. Maybe Bence Tuzson isn't here, I'm sorry he's not here, or he can't hear me, I hope he can hear me, this isn't a Fidesz convention, that what Viktor Orbán is presenting is mandatory to say yes. This is the Hungarian Parliament. You can introduce a fundamental law amendment or any other amendment which is absolutely rejected, you can bring in one which can be agreed with its objectives, but the text described cannot be supported in that form. I have to say that, thank God, this proposal is not such, it has a lot of forward-looking proposals, we have also said our criticisms, even with regard to the fundamentality, that it is obviously necessary to define a fundamental law on how individual applications can be assessed in the future. After all, if we expect a simple majority decision, then any government, even though it is determined in the Fundamental Law, is determined that the Hungarian Parliament decides and decides by law, and if it can be done by a flat majority, then we have not done much. Then it is indeed very interesting to listen to the Fideszes-KDNP speakers, who, when we proposed the amendment of the basic law, came up with different arguments, and believe me that if they could create a Fundamental Law without authorisation and asked people whether they would accept the Fundamental Law, which was adopted here by the majority of the Fidesz-KDNP, then I believe that this would not have required a referendum, either, in order to put together the negative thoughts of the majority of Hungarians in the Fundamental Law. I should also draw attention to the fact that a few more questions remain open here. Although we believe that this is indeed constitutional protection registered in the Fundamental Law, although it is a tool to defend ourselves, think about what will happen if the secondary legislative instruments which, if appropriate, could not be adopted by reference to the Treaties. The quota decision was just like this, because the passage referred to by the European Council, which made it, is actually an aid pass for those countries who are in a kind of crisis because of the treatment of many immigrants because of immigrants and refugees, but this does not mean that this can be imposed on all countries by a binding decision, and not by a simple majority decision in the European Council. Now, perhaps it could be a unanimous decision, but the leaders of Brussels know that they cannot receive the support for a unanimous decision. But what then, and we are pleased that Slovakia and later Hungary also attacked this decision, but what if the Court of Justice of the European Union, although legally I think this would be a wrong decision if it said that this binding quota decision or the previous decision, or the binding quota decision, was indeed in order and could be derived from the Lisbon Treaty? Now, that's when we become a serious, real freedom fighter - I have to say - in a situation where we have to show how to resist such decisions. It's not gonna be easy, but this fundamental law amendment might get us further. And believe me, as a closing thought - because we have very little time, many of us would say - that the constitutional identity that they say is lame, because, as I said, unfortunately, this Fundamental Law was supported only by Fidesz-KDNP, they could not come to compromises that, say, Jobbik would say yes, so I think if you are thinking of the historical constitution, then a historical identity that should be used here, or a similar term. That's not accurate. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2016-10-17-265	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, For a two-minute speech, I give the floor to Member István Hollik, the KDNP Group.
u2016-10-17-266	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, I asked for the floor because Dániel Z. Carpathian asked us a number of questions personally. I am very sorry that Jobbik has such a debate culture that they make questions, even accusations, but they do not wait for answers to the question. [[Dr. Gábor Staudt: See Tuzson Bencé!]] The fact is that I see that, unfortunately, Jobbik has been given the fact that in this debate on Amendment 7 on the Fundamental Law, Fidesz-KDNP is being attacked, and I regret that, among other things, Dániel Z. Carpathian made accusations in his speech for 8-10 minutes. For example, he did not say a single word about their own amendment, which concerns fundamentality. I think it would have been worth saying a few words as a better person. The fact is that this revealed it, and if Dániel Z. Karpát asked me, I am asking, too, from his questions and accusations it turned out to me that he wants to suggest here that it is Viktor Orbán and Fidesz-KDNP who are actually, although in words, against the compulsory quota, but is actually a big supporter of the compulsory quota. That's what you say. [[Dr. Gábor Staudt: That's not what he said!]] My question is whether this is considered to be a responsible position. [[Dr. István Apáti: There is a problem with your understanding of the text.]] Are they coming here and referring to the final documents of the Visegrád 4 European Council closing documents to make Hungarian people believe that we are the ones who do not hinder the compulsory resettlement quota? You don't live in Europe or Hungary! The Hungarian Prime Minister is now known as the strongest European politician [[Dr. István Apáti: Not anymore!]] , who is, by the way, against the compulsory resettlement quota. The fact is, ladies and gentlemen, that, unfortunately, we must see from these that Hungary is not at the heart of your policy. Your policy focuses on how to replace the Fidesz-KDNP government. That's what you're focusing on. I would ask you, especially in relation to such a national case, to focus on the real thing, how we can protect Hungary. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2016-10-17-267	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, A speech will be made by Congresswoman Mónika Dunai, Fidesz Group. Here you go, Congresswoman.
u2016-10-17-268	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, There are times that place serious, serious tasks on the world, which bring the leaders of nations to life-changing historical situations, and which also clearly shows to the world: who is really in the interest of the people represented by him and his country, and who, led by selfish party interests or other power mechanisms, is turning against his own people, his own nation. In times like these, we, the Members of Parliament, have a real commitment, a real patriotism. Only those who are willing to defend our country and defend our culture and our Christianity, whose first children are the future of Hungary, can be our country's country and country - our mother tongue, let us face it. Those who do not feel that way, honourable fellow Members, who do not think or act that way, do not deserve to be called a countryman or a countryman. [[19.20]] We can only call that a political adventurer today. As a political adventurer, honourable fellow Members, who cannot, cannot or does not want to turn to the right path for our nation, even when he sees that the path on which he is speeding headlessly leads to a chasm. And even if more than 3 million 300 thousand people draw his attention to the danger, he does not realize his mistake. Today everyone in Hungary and around the world is beginning to realize that there is a modern-day organized migration in the world, for which there are indeed reasons. Today, removing and remedying these causes would be the real task of the world, the UN, the countries of the European Union and the great powers of the world. This is what we Hungarians are interested in. The Hungarian government has also developed its package of proposals to address this. Ladies and gentlemen, Today we are living in a historical era in which only responsible thinking, real action and broad cooperation are the ways out, survival. Today we all have to ask whether we want to hear if we want to understand the common cry of more than 3 million 300 thousand people. I hear your voice, my fellow Members, including in my constituency, the words of the people of Crab Men and the people of Kőbánya. I would ask the representatives of the left-wing parties if they would be present in the Chamber during the debate of the Fundamental Law, if they would hear the words of the people, the people and the Hungarian people, too, from my fellow Members on the left. If you don't hear it, I'd like to translate it to them. People say they don't want to live with fear. People say they don't want to live with terror. Neither are those, honourable Members, who have gone to vote, nor those who have left this important decision at home to the others. We, Members of Parliament, are responsible for the security of the Hungarians through our decisions. We are responsible for our common future, for which we must do with all the means at our disposal. This amendment of our basic law also serves this purpose. That way, we can give proper weight to the people's will. The amendment of the Fundamental Law is also essential in order to protect the country's borders. It's a duty for all of us. Therefore, it cannot be described as a party policy issue, however I would like it to be a common national issue, or at least it should be a common national issue on the part of all parties. We're sorry that not all couples see it that way. Our aim is to prohibit forced resettlement in Hungary in line with the will of the vast majority of people. The seventh amendment of the Fundamental Law was therefore made possible by the mandate of the Hungarian people, as more than 3 million 300 thousand people voted against the compulsory resettlement quota. You can't ignore the votes and words of over 3 million 300,000 people. It's not a small minority we're talking about. The will of these people was united over the parties. They all stood up for themselves and for the future of Hungary. They created a new unit for Hungary. The Hungarian Government and Parliament, and we have a moral obligation to respond to this at the level of legislation. In the referendum on 2 October, we gave an opinion on the future of Hungary, our children and our grandchildren, on who to live with, what to do with our culture, what to do with our way of life and our Christian roots. The decision of the people must be enforced here, in Parliament. In the name of these 3 million 300 thousand people, the Prime Minister initiated the amendment of the basic law to make it clear that without the consent of the Hungarian Parliament, Brussels cannot install immigrants into Hungary with any EU regulations. We are proposing to prohibit group forced resettlement in Hungary, because this is a matter of sovereignty, and no decision in Brussels should call into question the inalienable right to dispose of Hungary's territorial unit and its population. Ladies and gentlemen, I don't want it, and the people of Rákosmenten and Kőbánya don't want it, but let's say that nobody in Hungary wants it, and we don't want our children to live their lives in fear and terror threats in the future. We do not want to put our children in constant danger. We do not want our children to be victims of sexual crimes. We don't want to risk the future of our children. If you do not want and agree with these ideas, please support the amendment of the Fundamental Law to this end, and with your courageous vote in favour of Hungary's future, our security and our culture. I think that this is what we are doing the most today against the coercion in Brussels and the dangers of terrorism in this House. Ladies and gentlemen, We know that the European Union received 1.5 million people last year, and that more than half a million people have already entered the continent this year. The migratory pressure remains constant and is projected to persist in the long term. The European Union would invite millions more to the continent by reducing national self-determination by taking on asylum applications and implementing the mandatory distribution mechanism for those arriving in Europe. Instead of stopping immigration, Brussels would transport people to the European Union on conveyor belts. The unique request of newcomers of illegal immigrants would also be judged by pro-immigration bureaucrats in Brussels, in their view. This process, my fellow Members, would also be a victim of Hungary, as tens of thousands would be deployed in the country against the will of the Hungarian people, without a ceiling. In addition to security risks, the introduction of immigrants risks changing the culture and traditions of nations in the long term, even forever and irreversibly. We recognized this and said clearly that we would not let that happen. Dear House, All people in Hungary today see, with the exception of some politicians, that we are living at an age when we are faced with serious historical tasks. People also know that the wisdom of the people is indisputable that responsible, prudent decisions are needed to solve serious tasks. We are now facing such a vote in the amendment of the Fundamental Law. Now it will clearly show who is really fighting for the interests of the people he represents and the interests of our country, and who is turning against the Hungarian people, driven by self-interest or other interests. It is now being measured by us, the representatives of Parliament, our true commitment, our patriotism, and now, honourable Members, it will be clear to us who is the protector of our country, our culture, our security, and who is sacrificing the future of our nation in the service of the foreign interests of the dark side; and who is symbolically sewing the eye cover of our children. Ladies and gentlemen, Those of us here in this room - there are Jobbik representatives outside the representatives of Fidesz-KDNP only present - we have all declared that we agree with the amendment of the Fundamental Law. [[19.30]] I believe that those here, within the walls of this House, who are taking part in this debate today and are supporting the fundamental law amendment, are indeed working and working for our country, for our security, for our nation and for our children, and will vote, and we hope that Jobbik will, too. And those parties that are not represented here, I think my last thought was about them. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2016-10-17-269	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, Mr Ander Balázs, Mr Jobbik Group, will take the floor. Here you go.
u2016-10-17-270	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Last September 18th, my narrower Patriot, South Somogy, was struck by the continent-inspiring flood of illegal immigrants. Anyone who saw the 128,000 army marching through a month's invasion of Zakány, or the European alien crowd pouring on us at Barcs, and thought about it, legally shuddered into the terrible prognosis that all this could have been a weak prelude to the 100 million - year - old migrant apocalypse of the 21st century. In the first century, it could go to Europe. Huari Bumedien, President of Algeria, told the United Nations in 76, and everything else is just a sophisticated ballib bullshit. "One day, millions of people will rise to enter the countries of the north and the west," he said. And certainly not as a friend, because they will enter there to conquer them, and they will conquer them, populated with their sons. The belly of their women will bring us victory. It will be so, if the West, and we in it, do not want to reproduce, saying that the child is only blocking his individual and narcissistic hedonism. Empty areas will not remain, as the U.S.'s great tyranny and export of democracy have bombed the dams that have so far caught the flood of Africa and Asia. In addition, climate change makes areas that emit migration masses unlivable, where the enormous population population is growing like a retarded cancer. In the middle of the last century, Nigeria, 40 million, has now grown to 200 million, and by the end of the century it can reach the population of one billion. A similar demographic explosion takes place in the Arab region. Therefore, the question has to be asked: if they have not yet been able to make a normal living there, what will happen to them in the future with such a brutal population? Then Hungary, which is not yet a destination country, will also look like a paradise to them. The case of the so-called Syrian refugee Daham Al Hasan, who received asylum in Denmark with his three wives and twenty children, generating an additional cost of HUF 9 million a year for the social system. It is good to take this into account when naive beauties and lefty philosophers argue in favour of DK mental illness that up to 20,000 aliens could be installed in our empty villages, of whom family reunification would, of course, quickly become hundreds of thousands, completely disrupting the ethnic composition of our country. We do not ask for this, because even though the liberal Nazis draw a false parallel between the emigrating Hungarian masses and migrants, the former work and integrate, the latter - respect for the few exceptions - and not. And in spite of the 13 parables of the Arad, Pöltenberg, under the gallows, testified that his tongue was German, his heart was Hungarian, because he was beating for freedom. However, we have seen how far European values and willingness to integrate are from this crowd of invasions. Our leader, János Volner, gave examples of Fidesz's two-faced policy. But what is Jobbik's choice, what is Jobbik's answer to all this? The Székely writer, Attila György, has already written in the Book of Warriors: "Look around, count your ancestors, your morals, your country, your god, and stick to him with your sword drawn out in your hand. Why is that? Because Hungary belongs to the Hungarians. Thank you for your attention. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2016-10-17-271	Thank you. Dear Parliament, A speech will be made by Mr Attila Tilki, Fidesz Group.
u2016-10-17-272	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, On 2 October, more than 3 million 361,000 people decided to refuse quota, forced resettlement. Since the change of regime, Hungarians have never voted in such a uniform direction in any referendum. More people voted against Brussels than any party's voting base in the history of the quarter century since the change of regime. A new unity has been established in Hungary; people have made it clear what they want. The will of the new unit for Hungary, so that there is no forced resettlement in Hungary. In the referendum, forced resettlement and immigration policy in Brussels were defeated. The Hungarian people stood up for Hungary, not against the European Union, but for Europe, our culture and our security. I am a Member of the Parliament of Szabolcs-Szatmár-Bereg county, in particular my constituency borders from the east with Transcarpathia, Ukraine. From last year's migrant flood, my region sensed little, although dozens of Muslim migrants came from Ukraine. The migrants did not flow through Fehérgyarmat, Vásárosnamény, Mándök or Záhony, yet many of my constituency, 37 131 of them believed that they were exercising their suffrage, and 35 115 of them believed that our identity and national sovereignty were important to them. It is a country in which people's Hungarians have always been particularly important. Endre Ady writes wonderfully about the people who live here, when Zsigmond Móricz says his opinion about his narration entitled Seven Krajcárs in the West: "For here they once preached Mélius Juhászék, this is a wise world, the most Hungarian world in the world. There are those who have made the god of Kalvin a wise, separate, Hungarian god, there is no coronation of Ugocsa, this is where Tamás Esze's Kuruc army was crushed. This is the Hungarian land, the first depositists, Hungarian, so bloody, sad, tired, bleak, but a warrior, but beautiful, but indestructible.-The current political leadership of the European Union, in the spirit of stealthy federalism, cannot and does not want to give a normal answer to the challenges of migration. The effectiveness of the referendum requires us to redefine the relationship between ourselves and our national constitutional system to the European Union. This, of course, also implies defining our constitutional identity. The European Union is now between a community of law and an independent state, and it is no exaggeration to say that Brussels has lost its senses and is unable to recognise that it is in the wrong way to impose a compulsory quota on Member States. The result of the referendum has created a new unity in our country. It is therefore absolutely essential that we finally truly define the limits of our own sovereignty. With the first amendment on the subject of the National Creed, it is stated that the protection of our constitutional identity, which is rooted in the historical Constitution, is a fundamental duty of the state. The demand for our constitutional identity is also important because the European Union, after the referendum, still considers the procedure to be acceptable for the EP and the Council of Ministers to avoid the forum of Heads of State and Government together. The left-wing liberal and communist majority of the EP does not wish to allow any exceptions to the compulsory resettlement quota, so it would be mandatory for Hungary and the V4 countries to accept immigrants. Unfortunately, the European Union will continue to rely on the left and their liberal allies in Hungary, as they will do their best to ignore the opinion of more than 3 million 300 thousand people or try to minimize it. In the Hungarian Orange, János Kis claims in his article that there was no referendum on 2 October, because the democratic institution, this was a popular vote, and that was part of the autocracy. He said the winner of the referendum was the opposition. The MSZP seeks to make the amendment of the Fundamental Law illegal by means of pseudo-constitutional arguments. European case law knows a number of solutions in the event of a constitutional amendment. One: a mandatory referendum for each constitutional amendment - this practice is characteristic of Ireland. The Irish Constitution says that all provisions of the Constitution may be amended in the form of changes, additions or repeals, with binding referendums. Second practice: a country where a referendum can be held must be held in certain cases, but not in some cases - an example of this is France. [[19.40]] In France, the two houses must vote in favour of the proposal with the same text. The amendment of the Constitution will enter into force if it has been approved by a referendum. This is an example of a mandatory referendum. However, there are cases in France where there is no need to hold a referendum. This is the case when the President of the Republic decides to refer the government proposal to the parliament convened as Congress. In this case, the constitutional amendment proposal shall be deemed to be approved only if it receives three fifths of the votes cast. In Hungary, the institution of the qualified majority operates. In Central and Eastern Europe, there are states whose state theory is that Parliament embodies the unity of state power. For example, outside Hungary, Slovakia, where the Constitution says that three fifths of the members of the National Council need a positive vote in order to succeed in the amendment of the Constitution. Returning to the opinion of the MSZP, it is not illegal to make a fundamental amendment after the overwhelming number of non-voting referendums, since we have the political authority to reject the imposition of the mandatory quota in the light of the opinion of 3 million 300 thousand people. A qualified majority is sufficient to amend the Constitution. And here is the answer to Jobbik, because if there are states in which there is a mandatory referendum, for example Ireland, in any case it is mandatory to hold a referendum, then why is it wrong that Hungary, even though it could have changed the Constitution by a qualified majority, thought that we still thought that we would ask the people's opinion on this question that would determine our future for a long time. Jobbik's position on the referendum, while we are talking about the amendment of the Fundamental Law, is like the ironic saying attributed to Napoleon - some say Talleyrand - that the Constitution should be short and vague. So Jobbik's position on the referendum was short and vague. Well, Jobbik played double with his sympathizers. [[There's a grumble from Jobbik's ranks. István Szávay: Stupid! We made it very clear!]] Their president encouraged the vote and the gender, while many local right-wingers received instructions to stay at home from the same place. [[There's a grumble from Jobbik's ranks. Intercoms from Jobbik's ranks: Who? Who are you talking about?]] Of course, the aim was to have the Prime Minister resigned because two weeks before the referendum [[An intervention from Jobbik's ranks: Sit down!]] The President of Jobbik called the Prime Minister, Viktor Orbán, for a resignation in the event of a referendum, and said to his voters that if you want to overthrow Fidesz, you should stay at home. [[There's a grumble from Jobbik's ranks. István Szávay: On Jesus, where did you get this?]] I'm asking you to take the better voters seriously. They understood exactly from these messages. Dániel Z. Kárpát - high-profile traitors, thus saying that concrete treason, treason method [[Dr. István Apáti: Don't get excited.]] - asked for specific answers to specific questions. I'm asking you a specific question, my dear gentlemen. How do they explain that in Szabolcs-Szatmár-bereg county, in Tiszavasvári, the better-run local government representative remained at home from the referendum? [[István Szávay: Oh, you found a man! Dr. István Apáti: How do you know that?]] Or since they explain that I can be measured and attributed in the county, because I am a Member of the Parliament of the small settlement area, I know exactly that - before they list Cubatov - I know exactly who has not gone to vote among the better people. [[There's a grumble from Jobbik's ranks.]] Tuzsér, Mándok did 15-20 percent less than usual. It's a double game. This is sad that in such a case, a group claiming to be a right party does not consider the cause of the nation to be important, but only risks the fate of the country because of small-scale party interests. [[Intercoms from the ranks of Jobbik: And you shall say this. The referendum itself was small-time!]] I think that if something can be classified as treason as a right-wing man, then maybe this. Or how they explain the constant mention of the establishment of the border guard here in Parliament, and we created the border hunters and ordered them to strengthen the police. There are lawyers among you, sitting in this courtroom right now. It's not about what we call it, it's about what he does. [[Dr. István Apáti: That's why you don't care!]] Border hunters provide border protection, too, but you have an important goal. [[Noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] How Fidesz could be overthrown is the one that is consistent at all levels; consistency is, of course, to be placed in quotes, as they have been through an interesting deflecting process recently. [[There's a grumble from Jobbik's ranks. A statement from Jobbik: Say it to the liberals! About what?]] Well, respectable right-handlers, and we have received the threat from Gábor Staudt that there is an interesting way for Fidesz MEPs to ask for support from Jobbik. Football can be stumbled upon in our own actions. [[Dr. István Apáti: That's what your boss did!]] They tried to trick me in the election. Now I ask you: they dare not vote for the amendment of the basic law, if it is a proper text of the norm, because it was in the interpellations that took place two weeks before the elections two weeks ago from your president. [[There's a grumble from Jobbik's ranks. Dr. István Apáti: No! It was pre-meeting!]] If it doesn't apply, will Viktor Orbán resign? [[Intruder from Jobbik's ranks: That's right!]] Well, believe me, in our benches there are a lot of individual Members of Parliament. [[Intercom from Jobbik: Butcher Lawrence!]] And we'll be in touch with our constituents. As far as I know, Jobbik has one, all their other representatives are listed, moving in the vacuum. It will be difficult for them to explain to their constituents what this double speech is. [[Interview from Jobbik's ranks: Explain!]] With regard to the amendment - we are in the seventh amendment [[Interjection from Jobbik's ranks: It didn't work out the first time! Defiance from Jobbik's ranks.]] - of course they'll be making fun of what this granite-solid constitution is. [[István Szávay: He carved me in stone!]] That it has to be changed seven times already. I note that legal regulations require a qualified majority of two thirds to establish a constitution. So when we created the constitution, we did it with the right authority. Several people here have already objected to the fact that we did not have the legal authority to establish or create a constitution. Democracy, members of the elected parliament elected by voters in 2014, is interpreted in a specific way as illegitimate. Well, as far as granite is concerned, there is only the proportionality between the difficulty of modification and the number of amendments. The requirements for the Swiss Constitution of 1848 are strict, because the referendum is always mandatory in Switzerland in the event of constitutional amendment, yet this strict constitution has been amended 133 times between 1874 and 1991, yet no one says what granite is like in the Swiss Constitution. [[There's a grumble from Jobbik's ranks. Dr. István Apáti: You're talking nonsense!]] Thank you very much. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-10-17-273	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, A statement will be made by Mr Sebestyén Vágó, Mr Jobbik Group. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2016-10-17-274	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Before I say what I wanted to say, I'd like to respond to that in a few words. One is that, legally, you may be a little concerned about how you know who voted in Tisavasvári and who didn't. [[Dr. Attila Tilki: I'm an individual representative! We know the city.]] However, according to data protection rules, you should not know who voted and who didn't. It seems that this election trick from MSZP has already been taken over by Fidesz, that it is caging who they were and who they weren't. [[Intercoms from the pro-government benches: You know people! Dr. István Apáti: But so much?]] so that the activists can be mobilized so that they can drag Aunt Mary from Körcsin Street who hasn't voted yet. And the other thing is that his reasoning reminded me of an old classic joke when they want to explain logic by highlighting a certain quality of a person's home aquarium or not. That's kind of the logic of what he had to say, like in the joke, but I don't want to talk about that right now. Let's talk about the fundamental law amendment itself. The amendment of the basic law is necessary. I can see that as a social policyman. In his speech, Balázs Ander spoke about the consequences of a mass of immigrants turning to the Hungarian state for social care and financial care, but also of the blow to the social care system itself from the mass appearance of people of very different cultures in the country. I think that the social care system, which is already in ruins, due, among other things, to the lack of introduction of a social career model, would be permanently put on the floor by such a situation. If we take an example and even look at the child welfare services that have to deal with the families themselves, let us think about the insurmountable situations that could arise from the fact that the concept of the family itself, the culture of coexistence itself, would be a catastrophic situation for people thinking differently about the European norm and the behaviours defined here, even in law. [[19.50]] These are situations that can be eliminated and protected by the amendment of the basic law, but there are situations and situations that, according to the responsibility of the government, would require changes to other legislation. We've heard cases of what's happened right now. Within the social security system, I would like to highlight two specific sectors. One is homelessness, which continues to bear the burden of the refugee crisis. According to your adopted law, homeless establishments are obliged to take in refugees in the territory of Hungary. This may lead to conflicts, even unclear settlement items, for each supplier. The other is the child protection system. We know very well that it is factually understandable, and press agencies have also reported that there was a man in the Fotian children's institution who lied to a minor with false papers and was later caught in the act of a terrorist act in Western Europe. We can protect ourselves from these situations by amending other legislation, whether our child protection institutions or our homeless establishments, but in order not to affect the social sector in bulk, we really need to amend the Fundamental Law. Thank you for listening. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2016-10-17-275	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Statement will be made by Mr Imre Vas, Fidesz Group. Congressman, please.
u2016-10-17-276	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would first respond to what was said earlier. On the one hand, Daniel Z. Carpathian pointed out that we would not explain and raised the establishment of the border guard. In my memory, this question, why the police and the former border guards are better together, was answered at least 15-20 times by Secretary of State Kontra, Lajos Kósa on the Defence and Police Committee. [[Dr. István Apáti: The answer was just wrong!]] It may not be appropriate for you, but I think all logical arguments have been answered. [[Dr. István Apáti: I have the right!]] And the other is that the speaker before me asked how we can conclude that the good guys stayed at home. In Ferencváros and Józsefváros Jobbik did not carry out any campaign activities [[Hungarian Zoltán: Give us 20 billion! Dr. István Apáti: You are not ashamed!]] during the entire campaign period. They didn't post one poster... [[Dr. István Apáti: We didn't have as many millions as you did! Aren't you ashamed? The president's ringing the bell.]]
u2016-10-17-277	My fellow Members, you have the opportunity to speak. The dialogue, please, no matter how tired we are, let's not apply it now. [[Dr. István Apáti: Don't annoy me then!]] Congressman, you will speak next time. Be kind to acknowledge that. Thank you.
u2016-10-17-278	In order for two or three activists to stand up and campaign, you don't need money. I didn't see this, either in Ferencváros or in Józsefváros. Although I know that you do not have an individual representative, only one, while Fidesz-KDNP has 94 individual representatives. [[Tibor Bana: The dice are turning!]] At the referendum on 2 October 2016, Hungarian voters unanimously expressed their views, as 98 percent of the valid voters refused compulsory resettlement. With this in mind, we are committed to amending the Fundamental Law, with the voter's decision in mind. The Fidesz-Hungarian Civic Alliance Group strongly supports T/12458. a proposal to amend the basic law, which established a historical political unity behind the Hungarian Prime Minister and which aims at the seventh amendment of the Fundamental Law. The proposal focuses on the safety of our children and our family. The dangers of migration were gained last summer, early autumn in Józsefváros, the II. John Paul in the square and in front of the Eastern Railway Station. We are pleased that this threat has passed, and we do not want the irresponsibleness of European politicians to bring back the early autumn situation last summer. In addition to the issue of security, the proposal seeks to strengthen national identity, with which we also agree. This is the goal of raising our important children, and we politicians can also strengthen it with personal example. The change of five articles changes, among other things, our National Creed, saying that it is a fundamental duty of the state to protect our constitutional identity, which is rooted in the historic constitution. In fact, it is not only the duty of every body of the state to protect the constitutional identity, but also the personal responsibility of each citizen to establish a set of values that takes into account the maintenance and protection of our old Hungarian traditions. According to the will of the voters, the most important point of the proposal is the intention to modify, which clearly states that no foreign population can be introduced into the territory of Hungary. Foreign citizens can only reach the territory of Hungary on the basis of an individual application, which has been assessed by the Hungarian authorities in accordance with the law established by Parliament. Of course, this legislation does not apply to citizens of the European Economic Area, as the establishment of a place of residence may continue to be announced in the future. It is also worth mentioning that Hungary raises to the basic level the principle that the State has the right to determine the conditions under which aliens are allowed to enter the country, which has been certified by state practice in international customary law and is also enshrined in the draft international legislation governing the expulsion of foreigners by the United Nations Committee on International Law. Overall, in order to ensure Hungary's participation as an EU Member State, the exercise of joint powers must be in line with the fundamental rights and freedoms enshrined in the Fundamental Law and should not restrict the inalienable right to dispose of Hungary's territorial unit, population, state form and state settlement. These rules, which are laid down in this proposal, I believe that they will create the legal conditions that will contribute to the security of the country, so that we can live our lives more peacefully. I ask you to vote in favour of the adoption of the bill. Thank you for listening. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2016-10-17-279	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, István Apáti, Member of the Jobbik Group, will be speaking. You have the floor, Congressman. [[Dr. István Hiller, vice-president of the Parliament, takes the chair.]]
u2016-10-17-280	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Yes, there was a national referendum, the validity of which was past the fact that the opposition party had forgotten to mobilise, only this was not on 2 October 2016, but on 5 December 2004. Do you understand, fellow Members of Fidesz and KDNP? [[Dr. Pál Völner: You weren't even there!]] Then you, in the context of the dual citizenship referendum, have failed to mobilize your own voters, but you forget to tell me this. Because there was a referendum, it only happened on December 5, 2004, so shame on you! And the other one is... [[To Dr. Pál Völner:]] [[Dr. Pál Völner: You weren't even there!]] Then you, in the context of the dual citizenship referendum, have failed to mobilize your own voters, but you forget to tell me this. Because there was a referendum, it only happened on December 5, 2004, so shame on you! And the other is... (Dr. Völner to Pál:) You're surprised, Mr. Secretary. That's how it happened. (Dr. Pál Völner: You weren't there!) I was there, I went to vote. I went to vote. But wait. I listened to you, it wasn't easy for me, but now you're going to listen to me. The other: we didn't have as much forints in millions as you did in billions. Compared to our financial resources, we've done everything we can. Secondly, it is not strange, my fellow Members, that the MSZP, the left, campaigned to stay at home, we said that the voters should go and vote no, but who they blame: us. We encouraged participation, we encouraged the non-vote, the vote against, but not the left campaigning to stay home, because he is no longer their opponent, but us. [[20.00]] But you're the only ones to blame. We told you in time that this is a risky and extremely dangerous adventurer policy that you're putting this country into. You don't take responsibility for anything. Your dear leader is always responsible for success, for failure, for not being able to take responsibility, for not having the backbone. Plus, unfortunately, this can be said for the majority of your representatives. The other thing is, let's forget about this personalized list of representatives story. No arguments were put forward in 2002 and 2006. There is only one real measure to judge the performance of a representative, and this is whether, as an individual representative in his district, he has received more votes than on the list of his own party, in Hungarian, more popular than his own party, or nearly as much, perhaps less. Because don't think, respect for the exception, that there are so many people sitting here because of their personal quality! Some people do. There is one among you who deserves to be an individual representative in this Parliament, no doubt. But by the way, what is Attila Tilki and his associates proud of in Szabolcs-Szatmár-bereg County? The menacing public workers? Threatened civil servants? The mayors you threatened? The Gypsy votes he used to deliver to law enforcement criminals? And that our countrymen across the border are considered to be voting machines, are they transferred to permanent residences in one of the maternity settlements so that they can vote not only for lists but also for individual candidates? Are you so proud of that? ! And that in 2010 and 2014 the elections could begin under such favourable conditions - in 2010 it was the electoral demand for the replacement of the Gyurcsány government, and in 2014 the hacked electoral system, the completely rewritten, redrawn constituencies - that if the dog and the broomstick were launched by Fidesz logo, it would also be included in the Parliament; I can say this with a little exaggeration. Some of you have reason to be proud of being an individual Member, but it would be better if a good part of you were a little more modest, and you considered the measure mentioned above as a starting point when you talk about the real perception of your opposition fellow Members. As far as the specific proposal, the specific debate or issue is concerned, it must be addressed, for one thought, what is the true purpose of the liberals. I'm so sorry that Gábor Fodor isn't here anymore. The real intention was shown from one of his proposals last year, when he presented to the House the right to vote for an immigrant who has lived in Hungary for at least five years. This is their real intention, namely that they know or suspect, they are concerned, and they have a legitimate concern that they will not return to power again in the foreseeable future with the votes of Hungarian voters. Consequently, they follow the shameful traditions of the European Left to use migrants as voting machines. For example, France shows that 90 percent of those who have settled there support the left. They are, in fact, migrant poachers, which is why they campaigned for yes, which is why they wanted or would like to drill this amendment to the basic law. They can only blame themselves for the nullity of the referendum. We spoke in time, years ago, ladies and gentlemen, not to raise the validity threshold so high, not to be 50 percent, because, if necessary, this may still come back on a serious issue - and, indeed, this is a serious and decisive issue. And this system immediately turned against its own inventors, its own creators, in its first sharp position. You're the only ones who can blame. Either a lower validity threshold should have been introduced or a possible abolition of the validity threshold could have been considered. Or if they had listened to us at the last moment, at the end of August, to the fact that the emigrants, or our fellow countrymen who worked abroad, who were resident in Hungary, would have given us the right to vote in the letter, in the case at hand could have meant hundreds of thousands of votes, because the people there, for example, in Germany or England, have seen a no-go zone close by, which many of us are just talking about, they would have experienced, and they would probably have shown more activity if they had not had to travel hundreds of kilometers in order to cast a vote, but would have been able to vote easily, quickly and comfortably in a letter. You also swept this off the table quite pompously, and fell into the sword of your own creation to the hilt. As regards the issue of border protection: my fellow Member Tilki, it is not the same organization with a number of at least 6,000 people, specifically trained in border protection, as the transfer of a number of stand-by police officers, public workers or newly recruited ex-domestics to border guards. Plus, we're up to 1500 now, as far as I know. Six thousand is a minimum number, and 1500 is quite ridiculously small, ridiculously low. What if our southern borders are to be protected by our eastern border? There won't be enough soldiers, there won't be enough cops, there won't be enough tagged border guards. That is why it was a prehistoric crime that, from the beginning of 2007, the independent border guard had been removed in co-production with the MSZP, in cooperation with the left, and integrated into the police force. As regards the amendment of the basic law, more specifically: we are all interested in adopting a text that is hermetically closing, i.e. not only against the mantrasque compulsory resettlement quota mentioned until boredom, it acts as a kind of political counterserum or legislative remedy, but also excludes all possible loopholes regardless of the title. Because if, say, a bellman or a man from Mátészalka gets a large Afghan, Syrian or Pakistani family in his neighbourhood, he will not be comforted by the fact that he did not receive this family under a compulsory resettlement quota, but by relocating, repatriating or voluntary quota. In Hungarian, any title of which may result in temporary or permanent illegal immigrants being placed on the neck or near Hungarian people. Of course, it is not likely that we will support - I reassure Mr Tilki - this proposal because we are so fond of Fidesz-KDNP, your policy and your attitude, and often with your nasty, hateful, hostile, stomach-stricken speeches, I think you are trying to provoke us to discourage us from amending the basic law and push us into not voting on this proposal. It's the best thing for you. It would be best for you to be able to say for a year and a half that this ugly, evil Jobbik did not vote for the amendment of the basic law, we did not defend our country, we did not protect the Hungarian people, but we were put on a platform with the left. For you, if we were to vote, only one would be better if we did not vote. We can see that clearly, but we will not give you this pleasure. Many times they were so hateful, Mr Imre Vas, not you, because you read it in paper, so you couldn't become an abomination because of it, but many of you - not everyone, but several of your fellow Members - came to it in such a nasty way that I felt this way during the debate. At the same time, we would like to support this proposal in the interests of the Hungarian people, but it is our fundamental right and duty to make our proposals and amendments with a positive intention to put them on the table, and it is a fundamental expectation that they will be considered very seriously, and, if there is one way to do so, to support, in particular, the fundamentalisation of the law governing the examination of individual applications, since it is never possible to know what kind of parliament will operate after two or more cycles, so that it is not possible to amend this proposal by even a half majority if it is in the interest of the nation or contrary to our interests, because it is life-threatening, because then they will be mass-implanted on the basis of individual applications. Thank you so much for your attention. If I get upset, I'll react again. Thank you. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2016-10-17-281	Good evening. Welcome. Even when they compliment each other, it's like a dog bite, so don't. [[Defiance.]] It is now possible to speak for two minutes. Congressman Tilki is trying. Here you go.
u2016-10-17-282	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, It was comforting to hear the words of Mr Apáti, who said that Jobbik would probably vote for the amendment of the basic law. I think it's important that they don't fall in their own scheme, so they're on a forced course. You don't have to make conspiracy theories. Who's happy about how many people as individual representatives go to vote and how they vote, I read a paper. I read it in paper so I wouldn't miss a word. I would like to offer you a centrist quote: always show as much of yourself as we are worth. Public life, I trust, recognizes the difference between value and heat. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-10-17-283	Thank you very much. We are now hearing a pre-notification speaker from Congressman Tibor Bana, who is a representative of Jobbik. Here you go.
u2016-10-17-284	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, We're past a 15 billion forint poll. I think that this was rather expensive, that it could have been spent on much better purposes. In the meantime, in today's debate, which should be about amending the Fundamental Law, we are constantly hearing from the pro-government side that we have been, and are, the rightful ones, who place our party interests above national interests. [[20.10]] This is an extremely shady and cynical argument from Fidesz, because if we look at the events of recent years, we can see that Jobbik was the party here in Parliament that always supported initiatives from the government side or from the Fidesz side that led us to protect the country from immigration. On the other hand, it is the reality, my honourable members of the Government, that you have this very attitude. As far as the reference is concerned, your priority was to divert attention from the country's problems, health and education more difficult than ever before, and to operate corruption at systemic level and try to put their own friends in a position. This is the main characteristic of your governance since 2010. And it was also amazing to hear on 3 October, after the referendum, that those who voted against in the referendum all supported Fidesz and its policy, or even said that they voted for Viktor Orbán. This argument should be corrected, ladies and gentlemen, because after that, I think it is rather untrue that you are arguing that others may place party interests before national interests. Let us say, in the case of the socialists, this argument could be justified, since they are not participating in today's debate, nor are the representatives of DK. I would add that we, the good guys, don't miss hearing their point of view here either. But still, once they had their social support, it would have been nice if they had their opinions, if any. We could see that one day they said that, the next day they said that, and they were completely chaotic in their movements and their operation. But I don't think that's a problem. It is worth approaching the proposal before us in a number of ways. I would do so, on the one hand, as Vice-President of Parliament's Committee on European Union Affairs. And here I would like to underline that, of course, we can certainly support the government's steps that are in the direction of strengthening cooperation between the Visegrád 4s. We think it's important, too. Moreover, we need to find the partners between the Member States of the European Union and other countries with whom we can take decisive action on migration for our national interests. I am thinking here, say, of the Baltic countries, or of the fact that last Thursday there was a vote in the Austrian Parliament about Austria joining the V4s. The Austrian Freedom Party, the FPÖ, has presented this initiative, and although it has not obtained a majority, I think that the movements of the past months have shown that Austria, fortunately, is moving in this direction more and more. In this respect, I believe that it will be worth watching the outcome of the presidential elections at the beginning of December. In all cases Jobbik has put its specific proposals on the table, and we have also done so with regard to the amendment of the Fundamental Law, because we were the first ones to propose this. At the time, it was said from a pro-government perspective that this was not necessary, that other solutions had to be found. So, in this respect, your argument today is cynical, as many of you here in this debate have said from your benches. And to highlight one more thing, I would like to do so primarily as President of the District of Jobbik Körmend. The fact is that there are open migrant camps in the constituency, in the district of Körmend, in Szentgotthárd and Körmend also supports your dual speech. I am extremely outraged by this as a member of the Parliament of Szentgotthárd, born in Körmend. Of course, Jobbik has protested the existence of these migrant camps from the very beginning. It should also be noted here that Jobbik has made proposals in such a way that, if such camps had already been needed, although the government said that we would protect the country, protect the Hungarians, and if this had really happened, and the southern border protection would have been stronger and that the proposals of Mayor László Toroczkai from Digedhalm would have been accepted earlier, then no migrants would have arrived in this country. But let's put that aside. If such camps are already needed, they should definitely be located outside a populated area and should at least be closed. Unfortunately, however, the Szentgotthárdi also had to face the masses of immigrants, and that remains the case in Körmenden. In fact, I'd like to come up with an argument for you, perhaps, in the referendum, the rate of participation above the national average was typical in both settlements. And now it's worth looking at the case of Körmend. On this basis, therefore, it is imperative that the government take steps to close this reception centre. After all, you claim that it is important for Fidesz to have people's opinions, well, they did not hear the Körmendi's voice, they ignored it even when Jobbik organized a protest to close the camp, and it seems that they are ignoring it for the time being. We finally got to the point where the city's pro-government mayor, István Bebes, wrote a letter to the Minister of the Interior. Unfortunately, I have no information on the answer, but I hope that the reception centre can be eradicated as a result as soon as possible. Although it is worth noting that, in the past, there was a different attitude on the part of the mayor and the Fidesz MP in the region, it was only we who, together with civilians, raised our voice against the existence of this reception centre, which, on the one hand, endangers the safety of the Körmendi every day. But as a little place to advertise, I would like to bring here the fact that Körmend has a big event in the summer, the Altera Festival, which went extremely well last year. I think it was also a great occasion for this year's Altera, although the weather had a bit of an intervention, but this event could also be at risk if so many migrants remain in the city. Nor are the steps Austria has taken in the past. You can see that the Austrians are constantly tightening up. So, indeed, it must be acknowledged that few people are currently staying at the Körmend reception centre, although there have been immigrants in the city in the order of 100, and this has caused serious problems, there are only a dozen of them now, but it must be prevented that much more people will arrive in a few weeks or a few months. The Körmendi clearly said no to immigrants now, at the referendum and at previous events. That is why I demand that the government immediately shut down the migrant camp in Körmend, eliminate this reception centre. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2016-10-17-285	Thank you very much. Once again, Congressman Tilki, Fidesz, asked for a two-minute speech. Here you go.
u2016-10-17-286	Thank you very much, Mr President, for the floor. I always like it when the Jobbik pretends to be the champion of justice. There is also a very interesting sentence from Congressman Bana that said that there were some who said that the 3 million 300 thousand votes were all fidesz votes. We should find the person who said that. [[Intercoms from Jobbik's ranks.]] I would like to draw your attention to what the Prime Minister said here: the referendum has achieved its goal, because from now on we represent the will of the Hungarian government and not even the head of it, not the Hungarian Members of Parliament sitting here in Brussels, but the will of 3 million 300 thousand Hungarians. I don't see in this that there were only Fidesz voters among 3 million 300,000 people. But let's get back to one more confrontation. The Lisbon Treaty is also generally liked by you to compare it to such a witch's kitchen. Your fellow Member of Gyöngyösi said that the image of the European United States has already been formulated there. Now, you have to follow it accurately, and you have to see when the former Commission President Romano Prodi said in 2012 that the European united states will either be formed or Europe will leave history. He said it in 2012, not at the time of the Lisbon Treaty. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-10-17-287	Now, Congressman István Szávay, representative of Jobbik. Here you go.
u2016-10-17-288	Thank you very much. The fact that your communication was messed up on this issue, Congressman Tilki, it's not our fault. There is one such sentence to Prime Minister Orbán, which you said, and it was also said after the elections that so many people have never supported Fidesz. This has also been said in this debate. I'm sorry Congressman Vas Imre is gone, because I'd like to respond to him... oh, he's back, he's great. Our pro-government fellow Members came into this debate with rather cheap, hypocritical and demagogic arguments. But the bottom of the debate was, not for the first time, Congressman Vas Imre, who was able to go as far as the unsuccessful results of his own district, for which, I suppose, you were obviously not praised in your party, Congressman... Máté Meg Kocsis, director of communications at Fidesz, or I don't know if it's difficult to follow this with you right now, Máté Kocsis is the mayor, you are the parliamentary representative of this district, and the worst participation rate has been achieved throughout Budapest. [[20.20]] Mr. Congressman, I'm sorry, this is really the bottom of everything that you're going to blame even this on Jobbik for being so weak because Jobbik hasn't mobilised you enough in this district. It's amazing, though. [[Dr. Vas Imre: I didn't say that!]] Yes, you can. That's what you were talking about, Congressman, don't tell me. On the subject of my speech, I would like to draw your attention to two things: one has been discussed many times and the other has been discussed less often. One is that we say it clearly - Bence Tuzson also spoke about it - that this referendum does not have a constitutional obligation. We are not debating this issue because this referendum has imposed such an obligation on us. This referendum was not valid. There are a number of reasons why this did not become valid, and the reason it did not apply, is because you continue to force and purposely keep the hundreds of thousands of people who were forced to leave the country because of the disastrous economic policies of the socialist governments that preceded you and the Fidesz government. There are hundreds and hundreds of thousands of people living in Western Europe and overseas, for whom you still do not ensure that, like Hungarians across the border, they can cast their votes in a letter. The result was that only 10,000 people voted at foreign representations, by the way. We will not give up this fight, we have been dealing with this issue for years, we have recently voted off our proposals on this, we will submit it once again, because we continue to find this discrimination unacceptable. It is quite clear that you are afraid of these people, these people, like Hungarians across the border or unlike them, will obviously not vote for you in the next election by 90 percent, even if, if appropriate, now, knowing the migrant problem, they would have been able to identify themselves with the positions of the government and Jobbik. And while it is a matter of migrants, and I am glad that Congressman Tilki and even Mónika Dunai are here, with whom we are working in the Committee on National Inclusion, let me draw your attention to another problem that does not concern Hungary, but what will happen to the Hungarian settlements of the neighbouring countries. There should be no doubt - we do not yet see the outcome of this whole quota issue, how Europe copes with the problem of resettlement - if in some way neighbouring countries - and let us speak specifically about Romania and Slovakia - are forced to accept migrants in some way or possibly, then let us be sure that they will squash and twist the relevant legislation and calculations in such a way that the vast majority or significantly greater proportion of those migrants will certainly be taken to Hungarian populated settlements and cities. In this regard, I think that much more attention on the part of the government is needed, even now. We must have no illusions about our Slovak or Romanian neighbours. By the way, the fact that this is going to happen was an excellent sign that one of the largest reception camps was opened to Bős, so the Ficos opened it in the middle of the Hungarian populated area at the time, so it is a real danger. In this regard, let me mention another interesting story, and that is what is happening in the South. In the southern part of the country there is already a mass alienation in the villages of Hungary, and I have not heard anyone speak in this case on the part of the government or the governing parties, so that Jobbik, personally I myself, has raised this in the National Assembly on several occasions, and that Muslim gypsies who have fled Kosovo, who are Albanian-speaking, who do not even know Serbian, are being introduced into Hungarian villages... [[It's an intervention from Jobbik's ranks.]] Muslim gypsies, that's right, earlier to Martonos or Péterréve, now to Kishegyes. At the moment, 50 Gypsy families are being installed on Kishegyes. These are those who have already been deported from Germany, have received four to five thousand euros, they can buy a house from it, and your allies there, VMSZ, also play a rather two-lucent policy on this, because while they stand up for the quota referendum, the proposal of István Tari in VMDK was not accepted in the National Council, which also wanted to say that the National Council objects to the Hungarian settlements against the Gypsy Muslim resettlement in Kosovo. Let me draw the attention of my fellow Members to this, too. If Hungary is to be protected, it is at least as important in this case, or in this case, to stand up for foreign Hungarians, for or against similar threats to foreign Hungarians. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2016-10-17-289	Congressman Vas Imre, Fidesz, asked for a two-minute speech. Here.
u2016-10-17-290	Thank you very much for the floor. I would like to respond to my fellow Member Savay, so that he does not put something in my mouth that I have not said. [[Dr. István Apáti: Nana!]] But while we're at the numbers, then five thousand more people voted for gender on 2 October 2016 than I received on 6 April 2014. [[István Szávay: So what?]] True, you are indeed [[Dr. István Apáti: Is Jobbik Moving?]] They weren't campaigning, but we were campaigning, so... [[Dr. István Apáti: Full logic checkmate! The president's ringing the bell.]] Well, I don't think it's checkmate, so my fellow Member.. In addition, my fellow Member Szávay is not aware of the participation rates and the previous participation rates, because otherwise in Budapest there has always been the smallest participation in Józsefváros, whether this is a parliamentary election or a municipal election or a referendum. So, by the way, a lot of people have gone, and a lot of people have voted no. That argument did not work out for my fellow Member, Mr Savay. Thank you very much for the floor. [[Applause in the ranks of Fidesz.]]
u2016-10-17-291	Speaking as a representative asking for a normal word, Mr Attila Tilki, Fidesz.
u2016-10-17-292	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Perhaps that is why it should have been important - I am addressing this to my fellow Member Szávay - because I note that we talk, but I am not a member of the Committee on National Inclusion, but I am a member of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, but obviously the Committee on Foreign Affairs is dealing with a similar area. If you are already trying to upset yourself with logic, Mr.Apáti, and with chess math, it might be worth considering that it was precisely because of the cases that Congressman Szávay told you that it would be worth making the referendum valid, not encouraging the bettermen with whispering propaganda, because of strict party interests, that you should not go to vote, because then Viktor Orbán will resign. [[No one said that, that's bullshit!]] But the question is whether the referendum would have been effective, the number of votes needed would have been the same, if it would have prevented neighbouring countries from being relocated to Hungarian populated settlements, if we, Hungarians, had not been able to prevent the compulsory quota under the direction of Hungarians; obviously, the answer is that it is probably not. Believe me, you are not the only one involved in cross-border matters - you have given an example of a southern case. The Romanian government would have relocated migrants to Tasnád, and, of course, we politicians living on the border, in consultation with the DAHR in the neighbouring Szatmár, as the leading party, have successfully prevented even the intention that Romanian politics would have wanted to achieve. The Constitution... - writes Jon Elster, a Norwegian political scientist; the Constitution could be compared to Odysseus, who, with his crew, was tied to the mast, so that he could not allow the siren to be a tempting but deadly song. This also means that, in our case, it is only in exceptional circumstances that it is appropriate to amend the Fundamental Law. I believe that this is the exceptional situation in Europe now, that the self-defense of the Hungarian nation must be included, and we will put it into our Fundamental Law with the proper authority, and I would like to ask for the support of my better fellow Members. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of Fidesz.]]
u2016-10-17-293	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, I will ask if anyone else wishes to take the opportunity to speak. [[For signal:]] Congressman Savay. Here you go. I'll remind you - I'll return your time - that you have less than a minute of Jobbik's time. Here you go.
u2016-10-17-294	I know, very briefly. Thank you very much. I have indeed missed one, Congressman Tilki, you really are not a member of this committee, but I know that you have a great sensitivity to the subject, and a commendable thing, by the way, about Tasnád, which you have just mentioned here. I would like to point out that I have not linked these two issues, which you alone have linked, so that the fact that a referendum is valid or not clearly does not impose any obligation on neighbouring states. I have made it very clear to you that this is happening. I'm very glad Tasnadon managed to stop this. It would be very good if, let us say, Kishegyesen were able to prevent fifty Muslim gypsies speaking Albanian from being put into a small village in southern Hungary, because that would obviously mean the end of the Hungarian community there. [[20.30]] This is the last time I have asked myself to speak on this subject, so that we can take a look at such areas in this debate, which is why I wanted to say this, which is why I thought it was important. I would be very pleased if the Secretary of State would like to respond to this subject for at least a few sentences, if that is the end of it. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2016-10-17-295	Speaking as a normal speaker, Congressman Attila Tilki, Fidesz, here.
u2016-10-17-296	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, I am also pleased that, at the end of this debate, my colleague Szávay and I touched on an area that is also important to all the Members on the border, especially to us, but to all Hungarian Members or all Hungarian right-wing Members. Of course, this will have to be taken into account, and of course international forums will have to help to do so, so that we may be able to reach it with the neighbours - although I do not think that we will fail in the fight against Brussels, but here we have talked more about alternative things and conditionally. I believe that the Hungarian government will also succeed in this fight. I wanted to say that this may have been a bit more normal for the debate between us, a more normal solution to the problem. How good it would be if Jobbik didn't always talk about being authentic, he had already said, he knew they were the real ones, but about real problems, as in this case, which Mr Savay raised. You may receive for this in your party, that I complimented you here halfway, but how much more normal it would be if we talked about forward-looking and positive things concerning Hungarians and Hungarians. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-10-17-297	It is my duty to ask again whether anyone else wishes to make use of the opportunity to speak. [[No one's reporting.]] I'm gonna say no. Dear Parliament, As no one has made any further comments, the general debate is closed. I will ask the author, Mr Secretary of State, if he wishes to reflect. [[Dr. Pál Völner on signal:]] Secretary Völner, please.
u2016-10-17-298	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Just briefly, there might be a few reruns. First of all, I would like to thank everyone who has played a practical part in discussing this subject, this amendment. I hope that those who remain absent may also change their position in the vote or assess the importance and weight of this issue. Some questions have been asked, although some of my fellow Members have also answered each other, but for the sake of the summary. Sallai R. Benedek asked what the new elements were in this fundamental amendment. First of all, the concept of a group installation is a new element, and there was a question about quotas that the word "the quota" was not seen in the amendment itself. There is indeed a level of abstraction that does not require that the things that are intended to achieve the goal be literally included, but here the obligation to individually assess applications ensures the elimination of the quota, and this kind of wording, which is found in the current amendment, marks the limits of the transfer of sovereignty, its boundaries more clearly than previously, and the constitutional identity as identity appears at the basic level of law. And the lawmaker himself has the right of sui generis to create new legal concepts, which he can then explain clearly and in detail either in the cardinal law or in other laws. There was some innuendo about the invalid referendum, perhaps from my fellow Member Gábor Fodor, that it could not have constitutional amendment consequences, but everyone knows that Parliament has the right to amend the basic law. This could be debatable if the yeses were in the majority, which was quite far away with a certain rate of less than 2 percent. The referendum couldn't have been issued because it's a forbidden subject. In this, both before and before the Election Committee and before the Curia and before the Constitutional Court, different circles were run, which were debated; these cases were closed, so this cannot be discussed now. As regards the primacy of Community law vis-à-vis national constitutions, when the Minister summarized what was said after the main speakerial round, he made his position quite clear. Both the Luxembourg court and everyone have been politely avoiding this issue, but both in France and Germany and in other large Member States of the Union it would be difficult to imagine that this would be openly spoken and accepted by the Constitutional Courts there. The concept of the, as I mentioned earlier, is also a concept that can then be explained in detail. What about the Basic Law would be difficult to grasp in the concept of."Identification"? As I have just explained, there are virtually four elements in it that define even the wording for the state form, population and other terms that have been added to the current amendment. On the part of Jobbik it was said that they proposed both a referendum and a fundamental amendment at different times. If we look at the timing of this, depending on what happened, we can see that last summer there was no quota issue in the EU or there was no quota decision on which the referendum could have arisen. After this was done, the Luxembourg lawsuit was launched, and the issue of permanent quotas was raised, when the government raised that the referendum had a current date. That's when Jobbik came up with enough amendment to the basic law, but today, those of us who stand or sit or argue on this subject know very well that this kind of 98 per cent is not a strong argument that the Fundamental Law should be amended, and it's not just the government's whims that it initiated a fundamental law amendment. I would not enter into any other elements of the debate; the closing word was quite good here, when we finally managed to get to the point where we are talking about a national issue that concerns all Hungarians. So the other points that were not specifically linked to the amendment of the basic law and were discussed in sufficient detail in the course of the debate would not be dealt with. Thank you for the floor, Mr President. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-10-17-299	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, I would like to inform you that the amendment proposals can be submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the discussion of our agendas today. Now, we're going to have the post-op comments. [[István Szávay stands up, buckles his microphone.]] First of all, MEP Zoltán Magyar, representative of Jobbik, applied for a speech after the agenda - [[István Szávay's intervention while he sits down. To István Szávay:]] I'll give you the floor, while you try to keep the microphone and your mouth quiet - you can say your agenda with the title of a brave judge. Here you go.
u2016-10-17-300	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Fellow Members! I could start by finally telling you about a tough judge, because in Hungary, especially since Fidesz has been on the government, we were faced with an unprecedentedly courageous justification and judgment the other day, which means that not only Kishantos can escape, but the entire estate policy of Fidesz can fail. If, indeed, the Constitutional Court has a decision that, in our view, would be appropriate and otherwise perfectly justified, a significant part of the NFA legislation could be destroyed, on the basis of which not only Kishantos was destroyed, not only the eco-economy, but also the state land was sold. In the second instance, the plaintiff referred several points of the NFA Act to the annulment of the lawsuit between the Kishantos Ecoeconomic Economy versus the National Land Fund Management Organisation and the Hungarian State, as I have already said, and therefore turned to the Constitutional Court. Only in respect of the latter, the land sales contract for 250-300 thousand hectares can be destroyed for HUF 270 billion, so much should be repaid to the Hungarian State and the time since then, I think, also the interest if AB makes this decision. The court also has several government decrees, 6-28. It also stated that the Articles of the Treaty were not in conformity with the basic law and proposed to abolish them. [[20.40]] I am referring to the government decree which ultimately established the sale of state land and even spoke about the annulment of the provision with retroactive effect. The judge said that the entire privatisation is also in conflict with the United Nations Convention against Corruption. Amazing words, but we are deeply in agreement with him. Its purpose is to promote honesty, accountability, good management of public affairs and public property in public affairs and public property. These are all damaged not only by the judge, but also by the significant number of Jobbik and farmers. These opinions can finally be expressed not only by us in the walls of Parliament, but also in the building of the Hungarian court. The contested legislation also violates Hungary's Fundamental Law, which is particularly topical today, and it is particularly strange that it mentions several points of the Fundamental Law voted and established by Fidesz, including: Hungary's economy is based on value-making work and the freedom of the enterprise; Hungary ensures the conditions of fair economic competition; Hungary takes action against abuse of dominant position and protects consumers' rights. These are all conflicted with privatisation. I should also mention the article that we have repeatedly referred to here in the House: natural resources, in particular agricultural land, forests and water resources, biodiversity, in particular indigenous plant and animal species, and cultural values, are a common heritage of the nation, the protection, maintenance and preservation of which is the duty of the state and everyone for future generations. In its decision, the court pointed out that, under the NFA Act, land belonging to the National Land Fund should be used in accordance with the Land Estate Policy Directives, so there is no legal provision that would have laid down an objective, transparent set of requirements governing the evaluation of the proposals, which can be ex ante knowledgeable to all and which can be verified afterwards. These are the shortcomings that we have been saying for years now, and on the basis of which we believe that the whole system has practically encoded corruption in itself. On this basis, it can be concluded that the NFA Law therefore infringes legal certainty, not to mention that a fundamental law for the exploitation of public land should have been amended. We also said this a year earlier, we warned the government that this is not how it works, that the government is thinking of areas subject to the provision of a fundamental law, that it is just a conflict with its college roommate Viktor Orbán, and that as a result they are privatizing all the state land, but this is indeed an area governed by a fundamental law, that it should have been brought here between the walls of the House, and they should have received two thirds, which is obviously not there, which is why they avoided this way, even though it would have been straight and fair. Therefore, I also express my gratitude on behalf of every citizen concerned about the property of the Hungarian nation for the fight and stand of the judge. I trust - although I have no illusions - that the Constitutional Court will also make a fair decision. Thank you for the opportunity, Mr. President. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2016-10-17-301	Dear Parliament, Congressman István Szávay, representative of Jobbik, applied for a speech after his agenda:, He was murdered ten years ago by Gypsies in Olaszliska entitled Lajos Szögi. Here.
u2016-10-17-302	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, On 15 October 2006, at 3:30 p.m. Lajos Szögi, teacher from Tisavasvár, with his two younger children, the 14-year-old Emese and the 5-year-old Zsófi, went to the nearby Vámosújfalu to take his eldest daughter Zsuzsa home. While passing through Italy, a gypsy girl ran across the street in front of her car and fell into a ditch by the side of the road. Lajos Szegi stopped to see if the child had been harmed. By then, the girl's brother ran to the car and jumped on the hood of the car and smashed the windshield with his fist. Lajos Szegi then tried to leave, but he couldn't, because by that time the daughter's father, even his underage brother, and three other relatives, who pulled him out of the car together and started hitting him and kicking him. More and more family members and neighbors arrived, while the mother screamed from further away: "Kill the Hungarian, because the child is dead! But nothing happened to him. Later, it was found that the vehicle, contrary to what the media claimed, did not even touch the little girl. Lajos Szegi begged that his children not be harmed, but the Gypsies then yelled to the two little girls that if they didn't shut up, they would be raped. They then fled to the center of the city, and stopped a woman's car, and then called their mother and sister to ask for her phone. By the time the paramedics arrived from Sátoraljaújhely, however, Lajos Szögi had already died of severe head injuries. According to a doctor's expert opinion - to say it is terrible - 45 punches, kicking the teacher, most of which hit his head and neck. Dear fellow Members, Lajos Szögi was born on 4 March 1962 in Tiszavasvári, and graduated from his schools locally, at the Kabay János vocal-music primary school and at the Váci Mihály High School. Even in primary school, he joined the nature conservation club in the institution, and later as a high school student in the work of the Biorological Association, which he helped until his death. He graduated as a teacher in geography biology and returned to his alma mater, Kabay János Primary School as a teacher in 1986. In the same year, she got married, and her wife gave her three daughters. After that, he was tirelessly organizing the conservation camps of nature, mainly birds, one of the main organizers and leaders of the International Conservation and Ornithology Camp. But he quickly joined the environmental educator work that took place at the Wise Owl Nature Training Center, and the children followed him everywhere with a fascination. He was there at the establishment of the National Association of Environmental and Nature Education Centres, which he was also president of until the tragic death of the organization. Dear Parliament, After the lynching in Olaszliszka, there were no legal organizations and foreign news agencies at the door of the Szögi family's apartment, there was no noise from the international public, and the liberal intellectuals forgot to whine, and there was a three-year wait until the final judgment was delivered. Of the forty lynchmen, only eight were convicted of their terrible acts, three were sentenced to life imprisonment, three were sentenced to 15-15 and 17 years in prison, and two were sentenced to 10-10 years in juvenile detention. In 2010, the Szabolcs-Szatmár-bereg County Court required the payment of damages of HUF 46 million and of interest to the perpetrators, but their name was no longer available for sale. In an outrageous way, the Fidesz majority of the Parliament has rejected every better proposal in the last six years - my fellow Member Gábor Staudt has dealt with this issue, for example - which concerned the involvement of the state in the compensation of similar matters, and that the possible claim of the state should not prevent the claims of relatives. Szörgi has no chance of obtaining their final compensation, while the government awarded HUF 70 million to victims of the 2008-2009 Roma killings in 2014. This double standard is unworthy and unacceptable, even if the amount awarded clearly cannot alleviate loss and grief. Ladies and gentlemen, In 2006, a memorial was inaugurated at the lynching site, in 2011 the Italian municipality declared 15 October as a memorial day, and in 2o15 in Tisavasvári the local Zalka Máté street was renamed Szögi Lajos street. In 2007 he received a posthumous Pro Natura award for teaching his students throughout his life for peace, love and active protection of nature. It is also named after the Philosopher's Training Centre and the Training and Training Centre of Lajos Kokos Szögi. He was given a memorial at the Kis-Tisza Ökocentrum, and his admirers organize a memorial tour of Lajos Szögi every year, which took place just yesterday this year. Ladies and gentlemen, Order didn't happen in two weeks, but it still doesn't. There's Gypsy crime, though. Thank you for listening. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2016-10-17-303	Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speeches after the agenda. I would like to inform you that the next autumn session is expected to take place on 24 October 2016. Thank you for your work. The meeting's closed. Good night, everyone. [[The meeting ended at 8:49 p.m.]]
