u2016-04-27-0	[[The people in this room stand up and greet the voters' community. When the chairman of the meeting takes his seat, the people in the room will sit down.]] Dear Parliament, The 20th day of the spring session of the Parliament is hereby opened. I would like to inform you that László Földi and István Ikotity will be in charge of the meeting. Welcome to our guests and to all those who monitor our work. Dear Parliament, There will be a general debate on the bill amending certain laws relating to counter-terrorism pending closure. The government referral is T/10307. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, I give the floor to Mr Károly Kontra, Secretary of State of the Ministry of the Interior, author of the item on the agenda, within a 30-minute time frame. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2016-04-27-1	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Due to recent terrorist acts in Paris and Brussels, it is clear that terrorism is also linked to immigration. Previously, through the green borders, people who could be potential perpetrators of similar terrorist acts or participate in such acts of terrorism could enter the territory of Hungary uncontrolled by the mass migration wave. The Hungarian government recognized these dangers and immediately decided that no one could enter the country without a check-in. The lessons learned from the most recent brutal terrorist acts in Brussels are clear to us that security measures need to be stepped up. Accordingly, the government has taken a decision to create a counter-terrorism package. In view of the fact that the bill before you involves a number of two-thirds of the laws and the security of our country is our common national interest, we have held three five-party consultations in order to submit a proposal to the Honourable Parliament that all parties consider to be eligible. Thank you for your cooperation with the parliamentary parties, and thank you for your views in these discussions. The bill serves several purposes. It is necessary to establish an organisation that has the necessary information, knowledge and ability to ensure effective action at the same time against perpetrators of international and domestic terrorism, as well as organised crime, which is the basis for it, as well as crimes with increasing violence. This is what the Counter-Terrorism Information and Crime Analysis Center is supposed to do. The Tibet will be a new national security service on the basis of the Organised Crime Coordination Centre, which will succeed it, as proposed. It will be responsible for assessing, analysing, supporting, or drawing attention to certain groups, individual acts or certain events in the work of individual national security organisations or police organisations, coupled with appropriate professional knowledge. The main aim of the proposal is to ensure that today there is no communication channel in Hungary that, if necessary, secret services cannot listen legally to with a judicial license. This means that app service providers will no longer be able to provide a service providing encrypted communications, the data of which cannot be accessed by secret services with a judicial licence. If the application provider does not cooperate with the authorities, then it will be fined. The proposal strengthens several provisions of the Criminal Code, which have been proposed on the proposal of opposition parties. Given the fact that younger and younger people are joining terrorist organisations, it is therefore appropriate that the perpetrator of the terrorist act should also be able to be prosecuted in the case of minors over 12 years of age. In addition, the Btk has been modified. Two of its facts - this has been proposed by opposition - are acts of terrorism and incitement to war. The organisation of a terrorist group is a criminal act when the proposal is adopted, and when a person travels or travels from the territory of Hungary for the purpose of joining a terrorist group and, on the other hand, a person who instigates or otherwise promotes terrorism in the public eye is punished. Dear Parliament, In the case of financial institutions, the introduction of electronic data requests can substantially speed up the work of the Constitutional Protection Office, as a result of which the secret services can see possible cash flows at the same time as necessary. According to the proposal to be amended, the Penalty Enforcement Act will therefore... - if certain levels of terrorism are imposed, the rights of prisoners, such as working outside the penitentiary, participation in vocational training and further training, and the subject-matter of the prisoner may also be limited. In the case of terrorist acts, it was a great lesson that the flow of information almost completely ceased when concerned individuals, people who were afraid of their families, comprehensiblely burdened the data transmission system of telephone companies to such an extent that they prevented rescue. In order to prevent this in the future, the amendment obliges service providers to ensure, for example, the continuous operation and availability of police units, ambulances, telephone numbers used by hospitals. Dear Parliament, In the event that a stage 2 or higher is ordered, it may be justified to limit the visit of mass installations and the holding of mass events or to prohibit them. This is because the presence of a large number of people in a given place may pose a potential danger in itself. The scope of the provision does not cover events covered by the Assembly Act; this was also agreed during the five-party negotiations. The recent anti-terrorism package therefore strengthens the ability of the state, the law enforcement and counter-terrorism bodies to defend the security of the country and the Hungarian people. In Europe or overseas, governments have strong constitutional powers for extraordinary measures to ensure the security of citizens and the functioning of the state, for the military to support the police. Dear Parliament, In our view, Hungary cannot remain inactive, we must increase the country's defence capacity, increase the security of people, prepare for all situations. [[9.10]] The Hungarian government does not ask for less or more instruments than other EU governments have already received than other EU governments already have. The government is committed to making every effort to build, operate and maintain the effective defence function of the state in order to ensure freedom, security of people, security of Hungary and order. Our country, Hungary's security, is in our common national interest, so I respectfully ask the Honourable Parliament to discuss and accept the proposal. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from the Fidesz ranks.]]
u2016-04-27-2	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Now we're going to hear the speeches from the lead speaker. First, I give the floor to Mr Péter Csizi, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group, within a 15-minute time frame. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2016-04-27-3	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Your Honour, Secretary of State. Ladies and gentlemen, I think it is now clear to everyone that Europe, including Hungary's security environment, has changed radically, including the sense of security of Europeans and, of course, of Hungarians. There has been a new type of security challenge in the world that undoubtedly requires a new response. At Europe's borders and in the world today there is a so-called asymmetrical war, which, in short, means that there is no way to know who will attack when and by what means. The events in Paris and Brussels have been such a blow to Europe that it is time for us to prepare ourselves for this new era. Following the terrorist attacks, all Western European countries have tightened their legal systems and introduced new measures, including telephone surveillance, long-term detention, the freezing of bank accounts, the withdrawal of citizenship, and the use of tracking devices that allow terrorist suspects to be monitored and tracked. It is undisputed that the bombings in Brussels were not aimed at Belgium, but at Europe, so it must be seen that the attack in Brussels was also aimed at Hungary, somewhere, but fortunately it was not in Hungary. However, it is clear that our country must also be prepared for this threat and that all necessary measures must be taken in all areas and on all fronts in order to prevent such a terrorist attack in Paris or Brussels from happening in our country. The Hungarian government has already seen and formulated the dangers that unfortunately proved in connection with the two terrorist attacks that there is a link between migration and terrorism. Unfortunately, following the terrorist attacks in Paris, a terrorist with a mass of migrants took action in Brussels as well. The current EU policy has a great naivety that there are no terrorists among migrants, and unfortunately, despite the two previous acts, European decision-makers feel this naive thinking, even though the Hungarian government has already seen the problem of not being able to filter out terrorists from the masses of illegal immigrants. In 2015, about 2 million migrants arrived in Europe, but today we know nothing about hundreds of thousands. Today, they are in Europe without registration, with no papers, and the European authorities do not know where they are. Let us be honest, Europe has let migrants into the heart of Europe without knowing any information about them. Following the bombings in Brussels, Prime Minister Mr. Prime Minister made it clear that all measures relating to terrorism had to be taken that had previously been stranded because of political debates. Responsibility, the security of Hungarian citizens, requires that both the government and the opposition show proper and proper conduct. The safety of Hungarians is not a party political issue, so it should be noted that during the multi-round discussions of the current proposal, all parties felt this responsibility, and the current bill was the result of constructive work in an unprecedented manner. One of the essential and central elements of the proposal, as we have heard from the Secretary of State, is that the Organised Crime Coordination Centre will continue to function as a national security service called the Counter-Terrorism Information and Crime Analysis Centre, a shorter term called Tibet. It is the task of the Tibetans to process and analyse data received from other services and to draw up the most comprehensive picture of the terrorist or other threat, internal security and the state of public security in Hungary. To simplify, a system of information should be envisaged to prepare evaluation reports for the government. The Tibetans will not be eligible for classified information gathering activities, they will not perform classic secret service tasks. In short, your task is analyzed, evaluated and briefed. We know this system, because after 2001 such so-called fusion integrated systems were created in America and Britain, and perhaps the result of these systems is that no major terrorist activity has occurred in these two areas since then. The Tibek system will therefore provide the current Hungarian government with better controlled and more accurate information, and it is important to stress that the focus is on pre-terrorist activities. The most important thing is to detect all phenomena and movements in the direction of terror. On the proposal of the opposition, as the Secretary of State said, the Btk. it will also be amended to add illegal acts related to terrorism, so it will be a crime in the future to organise a terrorist group, to join a terrorist group, or to travel to or from Hungary for accession, and, in addition, it will become a criminal offence if it makes a publicity campaign to support terrorism in the public. Furthermore, according to international experience, the age limit for certain crimes would be reduced from 14 to 12 years, because unfortunately, the European experience is that terrorists often recruit people under 14 years of age to commit serious crimes. By amending the Eker. Act, it will be possible for providers of encrypted communications to provide all the data and information necessary for the collection of classified information and the service provider will be obliged to cooperate with the national security specialist service. The bill would also amend other laws on disaster management and related legislation, which would allow the Minister for Disaster Control to regulate the necessary security measures in relation to individual activities and events in a regulation which would, of course, not apply to events covered by the right of assembly. In addition to the measures listed above, the bill provided for changes in other areas, but we received detailed information from the Secretary of State in this respect. Ladies and gentlemen, In my opinion, there is agreement on the importance of the package of measures. It is neither necessary nor necessary to prove to anyone that any means of detecting and preventing acts of terrorism should be made available to the government and to the competent bodies. The Fidesz fraction supports the current bill because it guarantees the protection of Hungary and Hungarians. Thank you for listening. [[Applause from the Fidesz ranks.]] [[9.20]]
u2016-04-27-4	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I now give the floor to Commission President Zsolt Molnár, the lead speaker of the MSZP Group. You have the floor.
u2016-04-27-5	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, I would like to start at the end, because my fellow Member, who is a member of the National Security Committee, has said that the agreement has been reached. I would like to begin by saying that there is very close agreement, but it has not yet been established, and I am concerned and will tell you which points there is still a deficiency in this package of laws to remedy, and that we should not end up going too far away from the bridge, even though the plan was originally good. If I look in the Parliament's benches, I'm missing something. My fellow Member spoke of a national matter and, of course, what you said is very right, but if I looked around, I see that relatively few people consider it a national matter, and unfortunately, I also miss my fellow policy-makers in part, because it would have been right if they had been here. [[To Péter Csizi:]] I see my fellow Member, and he shows us that we are here with my fellow bell-ringing fellow Member, who are representing this matter. In your ratio, it's as if the bench is a little more incomplete. [[Károly Kontrat: There will be greater agreement.]] I would like to start by saying that the refugee issue, which is undoubtedly a real problem for Europe, must be drawn a sharp line between terrorism and terrorism. In this comment, we would not be fighting whether the two have a set and what they have in common, so I would like to point out with due respect that, in relation to the terrorist acts that have taken place so far, there were typically European Union citizens and persons with EU passports associated with terrorist acts, and there are very far-reaching links, where appropriate, to the refugee issue. Of course, the relationship between the two cannot be ruled out with absolute certainty, but I say that bashing the two together is for party policy purposes. I'd like to start by saying that the 21st. Europe of the century faced a new challenge, which is international terrorism and its unscrupulous behaviour: aimless killing, terror, fear. These are new challenges which no doubt had a prior terrorist activity in this form, and these types of suicide attacks were not typical of international terrorism. Obviously, terrorists aim to scare and terrorize every free citizen in the world every day of the year. This is their objective, and they are looking for the means to do so. Therefore, it can be said that the security, life, freedom of all of us is at stake, this is what it attacked, the civilised world has been attacked by barbaric attacks on the part of international terrorism. Obviously, the Hungarian Socialist Party is ready to support any proposal that is really about the safety of people, not just the safety of Hungarian people, but the safety of all free people. At present, we have come across a proposal which, although not eligible in its original form and in its original form, has started a series of substantive negotiations, because the aim of this package of proposals is indeed to increase the safety of people and the policy objectives have proved to be eligible. It contained many proposals - to which I will discuss - which were not acceptable, but we felt that this was really about how to increase and increase the security of Hungarian people, European people and all the people of the world. Obviously, we have also met objectives in recent months that, unfortunately, served party policy objectives on the part of the government, for communication purposes, including aimless colluding of refugees and terrorists, restrictive measures on the media, which appeared in a previous basic concept of law. Here it must be written in favour of the Ministry of the Interior that they did not have such wild deflections, which were not technically eligible, which were largely avoided. I will shortly address the points that still cause debate. It is very important that in such a series of negotiations the debate be about professional issues and that the parties have sufficient openness; this has been seen during the procedure, even if there were clearly excessive, simplistic and unprofessional proposals in the original draft. It should also be in the interest of the Ministry of Interior's proposal that both the Socialist Party and other parties' proposals have been accepted. This shows that at least the minimum rule of law that we are talking not only about communication objectives but also about the protection of people could comply with this proposal if a few more refinements were to occur. What were the driving forces in this proposal? The most absurd was the threat of criminal sanctions against users in the case of encrypted communications. This was unacceptable, but not only for users, but also for app providers. In this, there was a consensus between opposition parties that this proposal could not be accepted, and that was out of it. However, there has been a great achievement, which my fellow Member and State Secretary have also talked about, a proposal for an amendment to the Criminal Code, which detects the need not to tighten penalties, but to introduce new legal facts that are not ex post when the fight against terrorism has taken place, not by helping the investigation, but by creating new legal facts that give the investigative authorities the opportunity, and then the courts, to suppress a terrorist attack in the bud during recruitment, financing and transit. This can be a serious achievement of the Hungarian Criminal Code, adapting to the European trend that perceives that the world has changed and that the instruments of the 1980s and 1990s cannot be effectively combated against terrorism. It is right that the resulting Tibet, which should be specifically addressed, does not have access to the National Defence Service's internal response databases, since that would be precisely the task of the internal counterintelligence not to be connected in this way, and that would have been resolved; this would have been a problem if it had remained. Based on our professional recommendation, this has been avoided. Just as it is very right that the National Security Service may not require all data controllers, only in the case of public bodies and financial institutions, to provide electronic data transmission in accordance with technical requirements, this is also an important step forward and the fact that the databases of other organisations cannot be overwritten by national security services; it would have led to bad times if they could do so. The National Security Cabinet and the National Security Task Force have served very suspicious purposes in this bill. These would have meant informal power centres which cannot be interpreted in a rule of law. It's very right that this happened, and in that sense, the National Security Cabinet doesn't have direct access to the Tibetan database. This would have been a problem, which does not correspond to the practice of the rule of law. There was another absurd, inappropriate question about defence and security purchases, and the slipping and pushing these into this package of legislative proposals was unacceptable not only for the Socialist Party but also for the other opposition parties, so it was avoided. These were serious achievements on this issue. There are two issues left, in which there is no consensus, of course the resolution of the Data Protection Commissioner Péterfalvi, which basically settled this issue, but we draw attention to the fact that the task and competence of Tibet and the interconnection of the databases attached to it require very strict guarantees so that this cannot be used in an abusive manner. In this connection, some clarification is necessary on the basis of our opinion and the opinion of Mr Péterfalvi, as the Tibet is undoubtedly a coordinating secret service that provides work that has already been established in Europe and the United States, and may be technically justified, but it is very important to have the right ratio of state guarantees and the right legal interpretation of freedom of information and data protection on this issue. If these are fixed, this can be supported overall. I say, it is very important that Mr Péterfalvi's regulations also serve to preserve the rule of law. However, there is a point on which we cannot go beyond and which jeopardises the fundamental conditions of the rule of law, which is the restriction of mass events by regulation. It is not compatible with any rule of law in order to restrict fundamental freedoms, including the right of assembly, by a general regulation, even if the events covered by the right of assembly are not covered; therefore, a great deal of fundamental rights may be restricted in this area: freedom of conscience and religion, the right to unite, where appropriate, the right to enterprise and self-determination. We understand that there is a need for some change in this area, as mass events may be the primary target of a terrorist act, yet the rule of law, the system of brakes and balances requires that this can only be done in the most necessary cases, on the basis of strict justification and individual consideration. Therefore, the general solution to the regulation is not correct. The maximum scope of the Regulation could be to authorise the taking of certain specific measures and to prohibit, where appropriate, an event on the basis of individual considerations, as this may be necessary. [[9.30]] We will in any way propose an amendment in this regard, which could resolve this in a legislative manner. Obviously, this requires the inclusion of terrorist degrees in the law, since, at the moment, the levels of terror are included in government decisions. This is not right, because the levels of terrorism are very important both in the functioning of the rule of law and in the fight against terrorism. It is right that this is not in government decisions, which can be changed at any time, but in law. Therefore, we will propose that, after clarifying the processing of Tibet, considering Mr Péterfalvi's proposals and the restrictions on the regulation of the mass event, if they happen and if there is a solution for the rule of law, we will have a proposal, then this bill is indeed close to being eligible for a final vote, but in its present form it needs even more minor healing. Thank you very much for your attention. We are very confident that, in order to protect the Hungarian people and Europe and to protect all free citizens, all the free people of the world, there is a solution that will serve both the functioning of the brakes, counterweights and the rule of law, and effective preparation against terrorism. [[Anita Herring and Dr. András Schiffer applaud.]]
u2016-04-27-6	Thank you very much, Congressman. I give the floor to Attila Moring József, the lead speaker of the Group of the Christian Democratic People's Party.
u2016-04-27-7	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear House, The Secretary of State and Mr Csizi have already presented in detail the T/10307 on the amendment of certain laws in the field of counter-terrorism before us. The essential elements of the bill No 1. The justification for the submission of the bill, I think, after Paris and Brussels, there is no need to explain. The proposal before us amends dozens of laws, and I would like to highlight in my speech a number of topics which are particularly significant in terms of the content of the amendment. The first Orbán government, which was established in 1998, took immediate and effective measures by adopting the 1999 LXXV on rules for and related legislative amendments to organised crime and related phenomena. a law that has brought our country's criminal and national security situation back to normal. CXXVI of 2000 on the Centre for the Coordination of Organised Crime With effect from 1 January 2001, Sebek was formed. In 2006, central coordination was covered by the Organised Crime Act and its tasks continued to be expanded in 2015, for example by collecting, analysing and managing passenger registration data, in line with EU data protection standards. As one of the most significant elements of this amendment, Sebek will be given a new name and new function. With the adoption of the law, the Anti-Terrorism Information and Crime Analysis Center, the Tibetans, is hereby established. Its task will be extended, and it will have to provide the most comprehensive picture of the country's terrorist and possibly other threats, the internal security situation, the state of public security. The effective provision of the new organisation's tasks is an essential condition for full information, normative rules on access to public bodies' files and central government records. Tibet as a national security service will be entitled to process personal data, special data and criminal personal data, as well as data of public interest and public information in the public interest. However, taking into account the specific tasks of Tibet, its processing will differ from the processing of other national security services in two respects. In order to obtain the data that it can manage, it will not be entitled to carry out a secret information gathering activity on its own. CXXV of 1995 on national security services It shall obtain the data necessary for the performance of its activities by direct electronic data link, and not by means of a request for traditional access, as defined by law. Tibek obtains data that cannot be obtained through direct electronic data link in accordance with the general data processing requirements of the National Security Services Act by means of a request which cannot be refused by the requested person. Taking into account foreign experience, it is necessary to ensure that Tibet's powers are defined in order to act as the main information fusion and information sharing centre for bodies and services facing high security risks. Of course, for the processing and analysis of a great deal of information, modern IT tools and methods should be used internationally, and cooperation with foreign and international partner bodies and services is important. The establishment of Tibet is necessary because at present there is no body in the current system of public administration, law enforcement or national security services that combines, synthesizes and assists government decisions with tactical and strategic analyses or suggestions on terrorism, crime, national security risks. Unfortunately, recent months have highlighted the need for a coherent organisation with the necessary information, knowledge and ability to act effectively against international and domestic terrorism and organised crime, as well as its base. Dear House, With regard to the restriction of encoded telephone services, it is important to mention the fact that the spread of Internet-based global communications systems makes it a real risk that general communication patterns are changing and that criminal circles are increasingly using these services instead of traditional communications providers. CVIII of 2001 on certain aspects of e-commerce services and information society services. By amending law, data retention, reporting and cooperation obligations of statutory service providers will be established, as these providers do not currently have to report and cooperate with law enforcement and judicial bodies. I trust that the reservations made in this regard in the five-party negotiations will no longer be maintained by the Jobbik faction and will support the bill. [[Adam Mirkóczki intervenes.]] The amendment provides for the possibility for the Minister for Disaster Control to regulate the necessary additional safety requirements and possible restrictions for each activity and event in line with the level of threat of terrorism. Of course, the restrictions do not cover events covered by the right of assembly, which was also clarified on opposition request during the five-party conciliation. Another reason for the amendments is that the current Hungarian legislation does not provide the government or the Minister with the possibility of limiting the transport of dangerous goods by road, rail and inland waterway, or, for example, the visit of facilities suitable for mass retention and the retention of mass events. In the event of a terrorist threat, these measures should not be considered to be unjustified restrictions on rights. The amendments to the law on police in the proposal extend the role of the anti-terrorism body, namely TEK. In addition to its personal protection tasks, it shall also be authorised to carry out installation security tasks in respect of designated installations. XXXIV of 1994 on the police force At present, the current regulation of the Act establishes for TEK the protection of persons and facilities of Hungarian delegations and their diplomatic staff, Hungarian bodies, institutions and facilities that are important for government activities abroad. It is obvious that the Hungarian Defence Office will contribute to this task if its armed presence is ensured nearby. The proposal provides for the possibility for the police, in certain cases, to install special imaging and reconnaissance devices and record recordings. The amendment also leaves the restriction that recordings made by different image recorders may only be used in the event of infringement at the place of recording. [[9.40]] Dear Parliament, I trust that my fellow opposition Members will also recognise that unfortunately, the fight against terrorism is the 21st. One of the most important tasks of the century. In order to prepare the text of the bill, we were partly convinced by the discussions held in several rounds and already mentioned several times, since the representatives of the opposition groups helped to prepare the proposal, which was accepted. The KDNP fraction supports the bill in order to preserve the safety of Hungarian people, reduce the threat of terrorism and create a rapid and effective response. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-04-27-8	Thank you very much, Congressman, notary. I give the floor to Congressman Ádám Mirkóczki, the lead speaker of the Jobbik Group.
u2016-04-27-9	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, In addition to the fact that our fellow Member Moring has already advanced that Jobbik will support this proposal, I would, of course, still like to make some appropriate comments, recognising all and with a kind of positive criticism to the Ministry of Home Affairs that he was really constructive in the three-round five-party negotiations, the comments expressed by the opposition side in the standard text that were submitted did indeed come back. I think that this is the moral minimum and this is the legislative minimum which, by the way, on a subject of such weight, such a total national case, such a 21st. In the challenge of the century, we believe it is a basis to take into account the particular governing party, the given ministry. That is why praise is definitely due. Of course, it should not be ignored in the light of the fact that the Ministry of Defence is running another package in parallel, which also intends to use a kind of remedy on this subject, but the difference between the two ministries, obviously I do not want to make my speech a wedge between the Ministry of Home Affairs and the Ministry of Defence, but rather I would like to call for the importance of the fact that if the two ministries had perhaps agreed more and discussed more, we could have saved a lot of circles over the past period. I think that we are not the tie-breakers for this, and when we criticise it, we should not be looking for our disapproval or our terrorist-friendly attitude, but rather, if there is such a national issue, there is such a challenge, which I think no one in this room is questioning, that the 21st edition of the 21st edition of the Treaty is a challenge. In the 18th century, or in the 21st century, or in the 21st century, At the dawn of the century, security policy challenges changed, not only with security policy but also with legislative challenges, and this needs to be met. I wish and I sincerely hope that the Ministry of Defence, like the BM, will take the same constructive approach to this issue in the future as the Ministry of Home Affairs did. I would add that it was very difficult to create such a new organization after 2011. It is memorable that certain Nibek, which, not on this basis and not quite with this authority, has come to the House in a much more resounding way. I think - considering the specific proposal - that Tibet is the deficiency organisation that a country with a self-respecting secret service has been operating for a long time. We don't see a problem with that. Of course, there is always room for criticisms and a revival of guarantees that ensure that this is not a channel of abuse, but it is certainly right that an evaluation-analysis centre should be set up. We have been sitting here with my fellow Members on the National Security Committee for many years, listening to the challenges and institutional problems that Hungarian secret services have been facing. But for the first time, we are seeing a concrete proposal from the Ministry of the Interior that takes at least a certain but important step to ensure that this kind of speed, the kind of efficiency that the secret services may not necessarily be able to implement in all cases, is now done. What is positive, and what is certainly commendable, is this proposal in the first round, when we know it, has ended up at a number of points, either not specifically linked to terrorism, or just a little because of it, of overextension over certain borders, but it has been cleared of them. One of these was the passage or chapter on defence procurement in this norm text, when the five-party negotiations began. Thank you for avoiding this, we save a lot of time by having what is already regulated in a separate law and which is separate before Parliament anyway, and even yesterday there was a final vote on it, which does not need to be included in such a proposal as a separate passage. The issue of mass events has triggered a major debate in the Ministry of the Interior during the negotiations. I think that the consensus with the right wisdom is that, as we have known it, it is not feasible. And it's not just for you, it's not for you, it's for the rest of you, it's for the way I emphasized it, regardless of party standing. We remember the times when some people threatened Slovak terrorists and banned mass events. We remember and remember how and how to abuse some serious crimes or assassinations when various assassinations against politicians are planned. There may be a Molotov cocktail on the wall of a building house, or it may be that at the closed meeting of the National Security Committee, a series of events that do not appear to be so, but I think that the responsibility is there, that if we put something in a standard text, then the consensus that no one will question in the future, regardless of party standing. The resolution of the Ministry of the Interior on mass events, I think, is the right direction if the person providing or organising the event, who takes legal responsibility, then the Btk. With full knowledge of its responsibility, the guarantee will be that if and if certain authorities or services have information that there may be problems and, nevertheless, retains it, it is correct. But let's face it, Mr. Secretary of State, and I think the Ministry of Interior saw it, so it didn't come in the form of giving a license to the current Ministry of the Interior - and I would like to stress that I say this regardless of party standing - which, by the way, could ban mass events and not just political events, but something else, otherwise life-threatening. Perhaps what caused the biggest criticism in BM's proposal was that it was suitable for encrypted communication, whether it was software, hardware, and otherwise the question of providing the service. Jobbik's position has been clear from the start. We said it couldn't be XX. To give an answer from a bad reflex of the century is a XXI. It's a 100th-century challenge. We said that if the National Security Services were asked by the competent legislator, it would certainly be our position. Which was a misunderstanding, in my view, so several weeks after the negotiations, that I thought and meant that the Ministry of Interior needed a legal regulation that it could give the company with the appropriate judicial license to ask for the content of the X and Y's encrypted communications linked to a judicial license, as this is essential for the investigation. [[9.50]] However, whether we ban one in one or not, or whether it's legal, be it Btk. or, by other means, by means of other legislation, by means of Article 21 (2) (a) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013; In the first century we will try to disable companies producing or providing such software in Hungary, it does not work. It doesn't work because in the world of the Internet, everyone knows precisely that we make a pass in Hungary that - let's say - the distribution of pedophilia on the Internet interface and the consumption of the rest are problematic and involves such and such Btk. sanctions, but unfortunately, it is also accessible from foreign websites and other content providers. And here's the thing. So it was a very bad gut reflex. But I don't suppose that's what I'm assuming from the Ministry of the Interior, but I'd rather assume that the person who just formulated this pass was right if we put a sanction in it, then that's a check. Not at all, it would have put the secret services in a more difficult position if it had forced these operators to disappear and, where appropriate, anonymised users who would not, in the good sense of the word, want to make confidential information more secure, but would use these software with a particularly damaging purpose. But, of course, I have to tell you, and it's a compliment, and we've heard this review. And from the time that the relevant chapter of the Eker. Act has been included in the pass for service providers - with a penalty of fines - I think that this is, if not XXI. 100th century, but in no way XX. It is a 100th-century solution, and rather forward-looking, since the legal passage has the right to act according to the rules for listening to the appropriate external license, but at the same time it does not generate a method in everyday life that otherwise renders the work of these companies or software developers and professionals impossible. I think that if this kind of style and this kind of attitude will prevail in the future, what the Ministry of Interior has done to the opposition parties in recent times, then in this area, which is really a national issue, when it threatens not only to have an immigration wave, and we don't know who, why, where and what purpose they are afraid of, but we think about what conditions are not so far from us in Ukraine, and what free teams are crowded there, and what challenges Hungary is facing; if we think about how not only terrorist organisations in the Middle East, but also in Africa, operate, and which is perhaps the saddest and most feared of us, that we now need to look for a type of people not from the Middle East or African or other kind of people in order to enter the land of Europe, but also because of the world of the Internet, how it radicalises people from countries of second generation, third generation, established, or their grandchildren from a terrorist organization, I don't think that they need to act in the context of a terrorist organization, I don't think they need to think that they are safe enough. We may agree, and it is sad to say that 100% security does not exist. Just as the sixth amendment of the Fundamental Law is not the right guarantee against an assassination, so the BM package always takes a step after the events, I add, a very important step. I think the uniqueness of this package is in the creation of an organization called Tibet. I think that many other previous challenges, such as terrorist organisations in the Btk. - I believe that the LMP was suggested to be dealt with by someone who propagates this, or is in contact with them, or is a user of such a site. But this evaluation and analysis centre could be able to link information that can make important decisions towards prevention in efficiency, free from intelligence blindness. I would add that there have been experiments before, and we have heard many times in recent years that there has never been such good cooperation between the different secret services, but yet daily practice shows that there is always a problem. I think that those of us who have participated in these negotiations, delegated by our faction, cannot be taken away from anyone, and I think that everyone has made an appropriate professional suggestion and criticism to the Ministry of the Interior. Just as it must be acknowledged that the Ministry of the Interior has taken these vows. So what I see in a positive sense is that there can be consensus in the final vote, and in this sense we can also take an important step towards the country's security. I ask the Secretary of State to interpret this to the right colleagues, even to the Ministry of Defence, so that this kind of work does not go away. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from Jobbik and LMP.]]
u2016-04-27-10	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr András Schiffer, leader of the LMP Group.
u2016-04-27-11	Thank you for the floor. Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Of course, there is no discussion between us that the security situation in Europe has fundamentally changed over the past many years, and the sense of security for Europeans has been shaken for a reason. And it has also become clear, after the terrorist acts of the last year, that there is a whole new type of terrorist threat that individual European security agencies have to face. These types of terrorist acts are very different from what Europe saw, let's say, in the 1970s and 1980s. It is also quite obvious that when there are new types of security challenges in the Schengen area - I am talking about the Schengen area because there should be no doubt that if these perpetrators are in France, Germany, Belgium and it can pose a threat to Hungary - it is obvious that, in such a situation, the responsible governments and the responsible parliaments must take the necessary security measures. They must do so, as the previous speaker mentioned, even if there is obviously no and no security of 100%. At the same time, I am obliged to point out that when we face such new types of terrorist threats in Europe, Hungary, we must not make the mistake that the United States of America made after 11 September 2001. I could also paraphrase classics and say that we should not turn Hungary into America. Security challenges cannot be a basis for total limitation of rights, nor can we break with the demand at the time of the change of regime for a transparent state, an opaque citizen. After 2001, in many other countries, pressure from America and America has led to a bad tendency to use terrorist threats to use different governments or groups of economic forces based on different governments to fully monitor citizens. On the other hand, I do not think that there can be any security challenge that could provide the basis for saying good-bye to the principles of necessity, proportionality and commitment to purpose. Whatever security challenges we have to face, we must always bear in mind that the limitation of rights can only address the desired objective, i.e. the preparation of terrorist acts, terrorist acts where appropriate, and no more; it cannot serve overpowering efforts. [[10.00]] And at this point, it should also be said that when information is overpowered by power or certain security bodies, this is not just a human rights problem. It was also mentioned in the discussions, we said that at the moment that power, a single security body, a security centre, is stockpiling information more than necessary, it also increases the security risk, especially when we think about cyberterrorism, the moment that anything can be learned in a single place with a little exaggeration about the citizens and businesses of the country, it makes a country more vulnerable. I think that it is important to advance these principles when we are discussing this package of laws, regardless of whether the negotiations really took place in an extremely constructive atmosphere. It is important to move forward because we have good reason to believe that in the coming years this type of security challenge will not calm down, and we must be reasonable, and we must not enter into an event where we have noticed ourselves practically saying good-bye to the human rights principles, the democratic principles on which Hungarian democracy was born in 1989. Dear Parliament, The conciliation process initiated by the government under the leadership of the Minister of the Interior on the bill before us is extremely constructive and pragmatic. I also have to tell you that maybe it's natural. So when Hungary and Europe face such security threats and security challenges, then a responsible government should not look at the maximum communication benefits, but, yes, I risk seeking consensus regardless of the two-thirds ratio. I am obliged to say this because that is not exactly what the last five years have been about, even when fundamental national interests were at stake. It is important to talk about the fact that it is not just the few mandates with which a two-thirds law can be passed, because when it comes to tackling terrorist acts, addressing a new type of security challenge, restoring a sense of security, and that is why a government wants to take new measures, and we will also say this in the amendment of the basic law, this is particularly true when it comes to adapting rules with special legal order, it is also essential to ensure that the new rules meet the broadest possible consensus of citizens, regardless of the ratio of mandates here. For one thing is that a law is born, but no heaven, these rules must be applied in real terms. Anti-terrorist security rules can be effectively enforced if they are backed by the broadest possible consensus of citizens. That is why it is important to seek agreement, regardless of the current seats. During the discussions in the Ministry of Interior, we were, of course, pleased to see that some of our proposals had been included or that other things had been removed from this draft law. The LMP has already proposed a five-party consultation on the Fidesz initiative after the Charlie Hebdo assassination to supplement the Criminal Code with criminalisation of acts such as the departure from Hungary for the purpose of joining a terrorist act or group of terrorists, transit through Hungary and the organisation of terrorist publicity and terrorist groups. It is regrettable, precisely because of what has just been said, that, from purely petty party policy interests, it has been necessary to wait until the current negotiations for the government to at least embrace this proposal. It is not a prestigious question that the socialists or the LMP are now adopting a proposal in this matter, because it is not just about the safety of the Hungarian people, the people of Europe. I am not exaggerating if I said that if this proposal, whether what LMP did or what the Socialists did last year, the Ministry of the Interior took it into its name, it is possible that serious things could have been prevented by the Hungarian authorities during 2015, as we know precisely the news that there were terrorists who had travelled through Hungary, who had travelled through Hungary for the purpose of committing crimes or even for the purpose of joining a terrorist group. It is also to be welcomed that our initiative has been removed from the amendment of the Disaster Protection Act by the fact that political meetings can also be banned by the government on grounds of terrorist threats. We have good reason to pay attention, as there may still be people who remember that it was not so long ago that it was possible to ban campaign meetings threatened by Slovak terrorists. We don't want a situation like this. At the same time, it should also be said that regardless of the T/10307 ahead of us, There are no fundamental issues dealt with, which is also important for counter-terrorist action, anti-terrorist policy. What do I mean? I note that these proposals have also been published by the LMP in our February package of measures, and have been recorded. One is that the greatest security threat in Hungary is due to the fact that the bodies entrusted with counter-terrorist tasks are completely fragmented. The TEK, I take a risk, operates against the law, is not embedded in the police, various ministerial oversights are carried out by the services responsible for counter-terrorist action. And Mr. Secretary of State knows very well that, for example, in the Charlie Hebdo bombing, it came up that the error in the system was that there was no information from one security body to the other security body, which would otherwise have been useful in preventing the terrorist attack. So maybe we should start the story by integrating the TEK into the police force and abolishing the fragmented political surveillance of security agencies. Two: you do not think seriously that Hungarian law enforcement bodies can effectively defend themselves effectively in the long term in the current material respect and physical conditions and address new security challenges. We made our amendment to this year's budget last autumn, not only was it swept off the table, but police officers' overtime money was even demanded back in December. Under such financial circumstances, the best package of laws will not be sufficient, that is my bad news. Thirdly, I would like to say that it is not reassuring that the story is running on two lines, because this will cause serious codification difficulties, I am thinking of the defence wallet and the legislative debate that is taking place here. On the one hand, as regards our criticisms, I would like to talk about the fact that, as far as our criticisms of the bill are concerned, it has been misinterpreted by the fact that, in the case of acts of terrorism, the limitation of the age of veto was included in the bill on the proposal of the socialists and the LMP. I'd like to put an end to this misunderstanding. That was the Home Secretary's suggestion. We had an argument as early as 2012, when the veto age was reduced, Fidesz introduced it under the pressure of Jobbik. Let's talk about the fact that here, Jobbik and I have a fundamental conflict of principle, along with what Jobbik then suggested. At least there I understood the meaning of it, because there are acts where the reduction of the veto age has a deterrent function. I do not agree that we are trying to integrate children with criminal policy instruments. However, in the case of acts of terrorism, what kind of a deterrent function are we thinking of, even because we have seen this in Iraq, for example, ad Absurdum. They're installing explosives for children 6-8 years old - are we going to deliver the veto age limit to 6 years old? While... [[It's an intervention from Jobbik's ranks.]] - just as much as you guys. [[Defiance in Jobbik's ranks.]] While the Secretary of State knows precisely that the act is a crime, so the secret services and the police can carry out the necessary tasks. The lack of logging rules remains a serious problem for us in terms of voting on the bill. [[10.10]] It is not sufficient that the fact of transmission must be documented at both the transferring and receiving bodies - I am referring to the analytical centre. This is not a sufficient guarantee because the content and detail of the dossier are not recorded in any form. This would also be appropriate if on a squared piece of paper only the fact that the service and the Internet service provider or the bank had been handed over was recorded. What is necessary in relation to this is as a guarantee provision, and we have tabled amendments to this: a guarantee of identification and traceability; a diary with service providers should include what was intended; of course, ensuring the impossibility of a subsequent amendment by means of IT means, i.e. the requirement of logging itself. It's a relative long guarding period, so that whatever happens in front of the National Security Committee of the National Assembly, the diary will not be erased by then. These proposals have been made. I very much hope that the opposition amendments will not be carried out in the usual parliamentary procedure, but in the usual constructivity of the internal minister's talks. And there's one more thing I'm forced to do. In January of this year, Hungary was condemned by the Strasbourg court for the fact that the TEK can carry out surveillance solely with a ministerial licence. We have also tabled an amendment to ensure that external control is judicial control. Note that, regardless of the package of laws before us, since the judgment in Strasbourg in January, there has been a legislative pressure in Hungary to ensure independent external control at secret gatherings of information. We do not support the proposal to extend the facial analysis law. Remember, we didn't support the bill itself last year. What I feel as a cardinal issue is the removal of the age limit for veto [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] In addition, these are the rules on logging, precisely so that even the threat of terrorism cannot provide the basis for the emergence of an information superpower, an untraceable and uncontrollable information overpower. Thank you very much.
u2016-04-27-12	Thank you, Mr. Group Leader. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. The first independent congressman to come forward may now speak. I give the floor to Congresswoman Zsuzsanna Szelényi.
u2016-04-27-13	Thank you very much. Dear fellow Members, Terrorism is present in Europe and it cannot yet be trusted that it will decrease. There is a fear that jihadist terrorism will be directed towards easily accessible civilian targets in relation to the results of the international coalition against ISIS. High safety standards are in place in Europe's most threatened countries, yet terrorist acts have taken place in recent months. There's no perfect defense. Nevertheless, constant efforts should be made to prevent this. However, it is also clear that Hungary is not the primary target of the terrorist action against Europe. This is because jihadist terrorists have a fairly clear social profile. Mostly European citizens, second generation Muslims or converts, the vast majority of whom had criminal record and radicalised in prison, then fought in the Middle East in the ISIS army before returning to Europe and committing terrorist acts. So jihadist terrorism has both European and foreign roots. It is organised by ISIS, but Europeans commit these acts of terrorism. Therefore, Hungary's involvement as a target of jihadist terrorism cannot be compared with those European countries where Muslim citizens have lived in the millions for decades. There has been no terrorist activity in Hungary, not because of the extraordinary activity of TEK, but because ISIS is not prepared for this in this region. However, such an act cannot, of course, be excluded in Hungary. And it is also our job to be a member of the European and transatlantic security system, as part of our responsibility for our own citizens, to be involved in countering terrorism that threatens Europe. With the proposal submitted, the Hungarian Government is demanding significant permissions on the grounds that it will increase our security, but this is misleading. The Hungarian government should not focus its attention on the systematic monitoring and interconnection of data of the Hungarian population. The incompetence of secret services cannot be concealed and resolved by an unjustified extension of powers. Rather, the task is to ensure that the government is able to coordinate its work with its European and international partners, maximizing its potential. At the same time, it is a big question whether there is any way for Hungarian national security bodies to do so when there is widespread Russian information manipulation in Hungary, which the Hungarian government does not want or cannot prevent. In Hungary, there is also a significant rise in Russian economic interests, which takes place in strategic businesses such as gas trade. There is a growing concern that the Hungarian government and its national security bodies are not in sufficient control of the situation. It is also very worrying that, for example, one of the government's trading houses has a joint stock company with a businessman, Ghaith Pharaon, who is also accused of financing Al-Qaeda. However, it is not comforting that any foreign person can buy settlement bonds for a few ten million HUF in an opaque framework in Hungary today. Anyone can come to Hungary for money. There are other problems. For example, to Szilárd Kiss There hasn't been any progress in the case of a better politician connected with Russian counterintelligence in a year. Can't or won't the government investigate these cases? Dear Parliament, So what can we do about counterterrorism? The political will weakness and incompetence of the government has not been resolved so far by the TEK, which is in full play, which is already unconstitutional according to the previous speakers. Why should we now give a new super institution, the Tibek, much more powers? What confidence does the government require of us after all? A number of serious problems are raised in the bill. It is not clear where and in what case camera surveillance could be used in buildings; how data processing in connection with entry and exit would work. It is not clear from the proposal in which situations mass events may be limited. It is not accurate to determine in which cases monitoring could be applied. The fact that national security services can use this tool to carry out their duties is not a sufficient reason. The extent to which the rights of Hungarian citizens can be limited can only be defined by law. However, the proposal would tie this to a government decision, which is obviously unconstitutional. It is also necessary to define at legal level when the newly created super-terrorist organization could use the means of data transfer and data linking. In terms of personality rights, it is of great concern that a secret data collection could be carried out through a ministerial, not a judicial mandate. Obviously, they don't think the judges would grant permission for a covert surveillance in the event of a real terrorist threat. Trust in our judges. Let's keep our constitutional control licenses. This is the minimum need in these sensitive, sensitive cases. On behalf of Hungarian citizens, we require the maintenance of constitutionality. If these issues are not settled by the government, this bill is unacceptable. Legal and constitutional control, which would be the key to this package of laws - this too - is not for self - purpose. It ensures that the government cannot abuse its powers of power by restricting its citizens' freedom on grounds of terrorism. Dear Parliament, What, then, should the Hungarian government do to prevent terrorist acts in Europe and terrorist events in Hungary effectively? International terrorism can be combated effectively by a government that understands the real problems. The point of understanding the problem is that we are looking for a solution where the problem can actually occur and we are taking proportionate steps that the danger really requires. Hungarian citizens must be prepared for potential and real-scale threats. There is no government that can protect its citizens with 100% security from insidious terrorist actions. This is also crucial because, in the course of an investigation of American terrorist attacks, it was discovered that 80 percent of the cases were civilians, including family members, acquaintances, witnesses, and family members of the unsubs, who felt that something was going to happen before the events took place. So the main solution was with them. Living with terrorism and creating a state of attention is one of the most important means of prevention. [[10.20]] So people, Hungarian citizens, must be prepared with sound and real information, not fear, alarm and false sense of security. In addition, we should increase confidence in Hungary's Government so that Hungary can become a real participant in the exchange of supersensitive international intelligence services. Dealing with suspected terrorists, new vulnerability to the Russians should be suspended. Hungary must participate in the creation of a European Security Union, and national authorities must share all information about suspected terrorists with the European Centre for Combating Terrorism. Hungary must also take part in the fight against radicalisation, and there is no sign of this from the government today. Hungary must prevent the access of terrorist organisations to money and explosive devices and improve the exchange of information with foreign services on the basis of the European Security Strategy. Before the government asks for another extra mandate, let us ensure that these key guarantee conditions can be resolved, but that the government comes up with only a proposal that complies with the Constitution. So far, this bill is not eligible. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the independent and the MSZP.]]
u2016-04-27-14	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, Now for the two-minute speeches. I give the floor to Mr András Schiffer, Leader of the Group, LMP.
u2016-04-27-15	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, Only then would I like to clarify what I just said. So for us, one of the key issues is to have judicial authority in the field of encryption in relation to the amendment of the Eker. law, so let's have judicial control over the encryption discovery. The other, which concerns the rules on logging, which I have said, is in full harmony with what Attila Péterfalvi, President of the Information Freedom Authority, said. We would like, and if you will, to vote in favour of this bill if at least the comments made by Attila Péterfalvi are accepted by the government. So in Hungarian: for data transfers, there should be logging rules that clearly ensure that there is no possibility of abuse and ensure the enforcement of the data subjects. If this is achieved, therefore, the opinion of the Freedom of Information Authority, which is in line with the amending proposal submitted by the LMP, and the judicial permission to uncover the encryption is guaranteed by the bill, I believe that in this case this proposal may be acceptable, but this is a key issue, because, I stress once again, I cannot imagine a terrorist threat which could be a basis for an unjustified information overpower, where we put aside targets, to ensure any government power regardless of party standing. Thank you very much.
u2016-04-27-16	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, The further speeches will now take place within a 15-minute time frame. First I give the floor to the Members who have applied in advance in writing; first I give the floor to Mr Tamás Harangozó, Hungarian Socialist Party.
u2016-04-27-17	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Dear Parliament, Dear fellow Members of the KDNP Fidesz. Before we go into the details of the bill, several of you have mentioned the terrorist attacks in Paris and Brussels, so I think it's worth a moment to stop and say a few words about it. I think the legitimate question is not only the opposition, but also the Hungarian citizens, what has happened in Hungary since Paris, what has happened in the Fidesz fraction, what has happened in the KDNP fraction, what has happened in the Hungarian government, that we are almost six months after the terrorist attacks in Paris, and that this package is now coming to Parliament. I say this because I think it is absolutely right, because in December we presented our proposal for a Btk., which at the end of the meeting conducted by BM, today BM itself has made part of its proposal. I remember that in December, before the country-world, your faction leader said specifically what your government has now submitted to us, that this is a proposal from Orwell, and it cannot be discussed; Lajos Kósa said, obviously, on a professional basis, and as we expect of him, as Chairman of the Defence and Police Committee on this matter. Then, on 25 January, we sent each faction a multi-page package of proposals on what we think should be done, in which, among other things, the financial reinforcement of national security and law enforcement bodies, including the settlement of TEK's legal status, including our proposal for the Btk. and a number of things that might even be found in the current proposal. However, you then voted against our proposal in Parliament, which would have transferred ten billion forints to law enforcement and secret service agencies, who, in fact, have to guarantee the security of the Hungarian people at the end of the day. You have voted twice against our proposal, which, let's say, with party political bias, I find it difficult to accuse the government of being kind at a time like this, and at least upload the number of soldiers in the defence required by the law to be so many soldiers in Hungary. Nonsense that we are using soldiers today to guard the fence and all other tasks, so that the Chief of Staff himself admits that almost a quarter, almost a third, of the Hungarian Defence Forces are missing from their basic tasks. And it's being voted down twice in Parliament, and they're not even talking about these matters. I'm only telling you this because I don't think it's a party political issue. I think it has become clear that what we have been talking about for months is not opposition-government debates. We have made professional proposals, which you simply did not put on the agenda for party policy purposes, and they refused to speak on this matter. And I think it is extremely irresponsible, I say it again, because after Paris, you had to wait for the terrorist attacks in Brussels to take action on this matter. For example, I think he would have been here in the lead speaker's round, for example, to say to Lajos Kósa that he apologizes for this attitude, apologizes for the sentences that he personally did in the last month in this case, otherwise it would be a rather schizophrenic moment when he voted in favour of the Btk that he called orwelli a few months ago, for example, but it might not be a problem for him, I don't know; I think it would have been good. And I think, Mr. Secretary of State, the Minister should have honoured the Hungarian Parliament for the duration of the ministerial expozee of such a two-thirds bill, which is expressly and only acceptable to Parliament. As far as the proposal is concerned: that the concept of the Counter-Terrorism Centre and the Counter-Terrorism Centre have failed in their present form, I think that the part of this bill presented by BM makes it the most clear and is equivalent to a confession from the government. The creation of Tibet says that there were even government speeches where they specifically said that, it shows us that the government is dissatisfied with the activities of the Counter-Terrorism Center, it has admitted that it cannot guarantee the safety of the people in the setting-up of the TEK today. It was part of the concept, Mr State Secretary, that you know very well that the powers and tasks relating to terrorist analysis, information gathering and analysis of the terrorist situation have been removed from the secret services, primarily from the Constitutional Protection Office, given to the Counter-Terrorism Centre, and today the creation of Tibet is justified by the fact that there is, indeed, a very, very large deficiency in this area, and that the government has been misinformed in recent months by these intelligence agencies and the TEK itself, and this is not possible. We agree with that, but the fact is that, by joining both the role of the TEK in public law and the professional role of the TEK, I think that this issue needs to be reviewed. We continue to say that this is a very good commando, very good that you have equipped large SUVs and armored combat vehicles and well-trained commandos for TEK, but this organ in the concept that he will take all phases of counter-terrorism into his hands and gather information, analyze it, and know, for example, the difference between a dressed Jedi knight and a terrorist, in this part, apparently, the Counter-Terrorism Center is still not working as it should. [[10.30]] Hopefully, the creation of Tibet in this area can really provide decision-makers with well-founded and well-analyzed information, and I do not want political decision-makers in the first place to provide such information, because I think policy in this area has nothing to do with it, but let's say those law enforcement leaders who have to decide what reaction to an attack or threat are very important for them to have accurate information. We continue to think that the bill currently tabled, as my fellow Member, Zsolt Molnár, has said, is not good at all with regard to, for example, the ban on mass events. We understand intent, we understand responsibility, so that there must be someone in the country who can take a responsible decision to protect other people's lives, but they cannot tell me either legally or effectively what this has to do with, for example, the disaster protection law. What does the ban on mass events in the event of a terrorist situation have to do with the disaster protection law, which is primarily about the management of elementary and industrial disasters? They cannot explain how a mass limitation activity or decisions could otherwise be taken in regulation. I add that the assembly law is not only interesting, I do not know whether this has been discussed by my fellow Member, but in this wording, as you have just presented, for example, it concerns freedom of religion and faith, because, if you think about it, the banning of all kinds of mass events by regulation actually affects and will affect either religious activity or going to church on Sundays. So what we see on this point is that it is not thought through and its place in the legal system is not well-found, so we will submit an amendment to this, in our view, in a professionally sound place, we believe that this is the place in the law of the police, and we believe that we will be able to meet the goal of being responsible for protecting people's lives in Hungary with an adequate guarantee of the state of law. But it is certainly not the solution, and we ask for it in return, I would rather reverse you, especially the Fidesz-KDNP fraction, to look at this in substance; at least if you want a consensus at the end of the day, and would like this law to be voted by our faction. Obviously, this is a matter for you to decide. Finally, two sentences on the relationship between the bill itself and the HM proposal. So, I think it's clear, and it absolutely confirmed our approach so far, that, yesterday, once again, a fundamental law amendment was submitted to the Parliament by fidesz individual representatives. It makes it clear that political play, political play, I don't know what to call what the Ministry of Defense has been doing over the past few years, has obviously performed a task. It is his conscience that he is involved in this, but it was a game; in which, by the way, I believe, this is my private opinion, and then our colleagues respond to it, it was also a mistake to be part of such a farce to go to a five-party meeting. In five-party talks, where the opposition doesn't even come out, the ruling party will tell us what happened in there, and it wasn't true, they will go to a meeting next week, and then in ten minutes the ruling party will stand up and say, "Yeah, he will submit the proposal." Good afternoon. And now we see how you're gonna do it, and some of the Fidesz Members think that he's gonna personally be the one who's gonna make a fundamental amendment. I ask you, what do we consider the government to be? Then why is Mr. Simicsko sitting there holding a five-party? What kind of a joke is this, fellow Members? ! It is perfectly apparent that this is part of a political game, and it is perfectly visible what happened in BM, and even in our view, it was a reaction to a problem expected from the government, to which the government held substantive consultations with the other parties of Parliament before the text was submitted. Obviously, it's not because we love each other or not, it's because the two-thirds majority makes it normal. I have only said this because I would like to continue to make it very clear that by submitting this proposal yesterday by Fidesz MEPs, it is even more supportive and makes it easier for us to decide that we cannot participate in this. And it makes it even more clear to the citizens of Hungary that if our amendments and even the LMPs are to be supported here in Parliament, then the BM proposal can be voted out, because it is a professional proposal in order for the government to be able to protect its citizens. There is a huge difference between the two, and there is therefore a huge difference between our participation and our political attitude with regard to the two legislative proposals. We would kindly ask that our proposals on remaining legal and rule of law guarantees be considered in substance, and obviously, as we have said, we make our behaviour dependent on this in the final vote. Thank you so much for listening.
u2016-04-27-18	Thank you, Congressman. I give the floor to Congressman Peter Konya.
u2016-04-27-19	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to start by saying that it has been said here among the walls of the House, and there is consensus that not only Hungary, but also Europe, is facing new challenges due to the migrant crisis and the threat of terrorism, and this cannot be seen with its eyes closed, but it is clearly necessary to move forward both for Hungary and for responsible legislation. At the same time, I would like to stress that it is perhaps possible to appreciate positively, as my fellow opposition Members have said, that, with the loss of at least two thirds, at least my fellow Members and ministers in the Fidesz and the ministers of state in the government, knowing that in some way the legislation must be implemented, and that the two-thirds of the laws must be passed, or at least tried to be adopted, they have entered into some substantive discussion, and as a result, as my opposition colleagues have said, we have been able to reach compromises on a number of issues and to draw points from the previous bill and to accept opposition proposals. However, what I would like to say is that I do not consider myself and my independent fellow Members to be second-rate Members, and I find it very regrettable that, by the way, those independent Members who could, if appropriate, even with their expertise, contribute to a better legislative proposal. And here I would say that, since this draft law is not about secret matters, but also concerns a number of fundamental civil rights and rights restrictions, this draft law itself would require the government and the governing parties not to discuss this in a closed circle, in closed sessions, but, where appropriate, to take this issue out for wider social consultation. It is important that such amendments and restrictions should be supported and supported by society as a whole. After all, it can be made clear to citizens that such restrictions are necessary in their interest, where appropriate. And indeed, Hungary's security and public security cannot be a party political issue and a debate on party political interests, nor can it be an instrument of power struggle between ministries and the heads of ministries. I will come back to this on a number of issues as to why I am saying this, but perhaps it is the most visible of what my fellow Member, who has already referred to it, has already referred to. On the one hand, two different wallets were the subject of negotiations in two different directions, and it appears that there is some kind of lack of synchronization between these two negotiations, which took place in the Ministry of Defence and in the Ministry of Interior. While the subject is virtually the same: the fact that they have submitted earlier, and the Minister of Interior has submitted a 14-point package of legislation, a salad package, in which, by the way, a number of other laws are amended from the Defense Act. Then yesterday we actually received a new package of laws, which the Minister of Defence himself notes, and a number of my fellow Members with Fidesz will also be present on the same subject, given that both are about amending the laws relating to terrorism or the terrorist situation. What I don't understand is why within the government it was not possible for the leaders of the wallets concerned to negotiate with the factions or even with the relevant representatives, and not for the fact that one hand doesn't know what the other hand is doing. So, if this really is a matter of the whole country and national security, then I think that the kind of rivalry that goes on between the wallets under your governance should have been put aside and really carried on for the sake of purpose. [[10.40]] But I'll be able to back that up, especially when it comes to amending the law. In order to express my opinion on the specific amendment of the law itself, perhaps I would begin with this and this is the basis for the whole amendment of the law, that they want to set up a new secret service organization while eliminating the Organised Crime Coordination Centre, instead of setting up the Counter-Terrorism Information and Crime Analysis Centre. I wonder why, by the way, when the Sebek weren't a secret service organization, and the Tibek can't do secret data collections, why should they be classified and redesigned as a secret service organization? I would ask the Secretary of State for his answer, because there is no reason why, by the way, if he operated an Organised Crime Centre, which did not qualify as a national security organisation, Tibek itself must become one. Nor is it understandable that, while the substance and the justification of the law explain that Sebek itself, as an organization, functioned well and effectively against organised crime, why this organisation cannot be left alone and, where appropriate, complement the activities of this organisation with tasks and tasks related to countering terrorism. The Tibet itself, which they want to create, will be the number one government information body, making analyses and evaluations, but at the same time the management and management of the secret services will not change. In Hungarian, the Directors-General will continue to refer to their own ministers. Although ministers may have access to the work of the Tibetans, it has not been revealed how. So, basically, you can't see Tibek as a top organ, because he's under the control of the Ministry of the Interior. What is the reason why such an organisation, which is supposed to function as a top body above the secret services, should not be under the direct direction of the Minister of the Prime Minister's Office or, where appropriate, the Prime Minister? The Director-General of the National Security Service may, if appropriate, set limits on the use of the data transmitted while they are talking about things as a peak body. In English, a situation is already coming in here and a situation can arise that will bring organizations to further competition or even to competition; while, by the way, the Military Security Service is obliged to hand over the materials to Tibek without any limitations or powers and otherwise, without analysis or evaluation. This could lead to maladministration on a number of issues. On the one hand, the Military Security Service itself handles not only Hungary, but also data related to NATO, and military secrets which, by the way, have nothing to do with, and may not be, handed over. At the same time, what justifies the fact that a Minister of the Interior, while there is no subordination and subordination between the Ministry of Interior and the Minister of Defence, is also detracting from the Minister of Defence all powers with regard to military security services? That is why it is incomprehensible why this organisation will fall under the authority of the Minister of the Interior. What is also a bit of a reverse, is that, while the focus in Hungary, and obviously in Europe, is on combating terrorism and resolving the migrant crisis, it should not be forgotten and should not put the fight against organised crime in the background. There are many examples in Hungary as well, and there is an increasing rise in the proliferation of organised crime, which is why we should not focus on combating terrorism, because Hungary is, in my opinion, less threatened by terrorism than by organised crime. By abolishing the Organised Crime Centre and focusing on terrorism, they are taking the edge off exactly what Hungary would otherwise have to fight against. I do not want to minimize the threat to terrorism, I just want to draw attention to the fact that in Hungary there is a much greater risk of damage caused by organised crime, and not to mention that the migrant crisis has clearly shown that one of the drivers of the refugee flood is precisely the smuggling gangs, which are closely linked to organised crime, so this should not be neglected. What also raises the question to the Secretary of State that the proposal includes the need for 13 partner organisations to build the electronic data collection system from their own budget within six months. How much is this gonna cost to see if there's a source for that? In non-state bodies, the costs of deployment are provided by the National Security Service. How much money do you want to provide for this? What is also interesting is that the submission focuses only on data from third countries when collecting data on passenger data traffic. But what about following terrorist citizens in EU countries, why is this not in the material? After all, the unfortunate occurrence of the past period has also demonstrated that, where appropriate, such persons may not only come from third countries, but even from EU countries. And at the end of it, I left a real gem, and you refer to data transmission and reporting with the Western European Union, the NYEU, in page 12. I would like to inform you, Mr State Secretary, and the rapporteurs that on 30 June 2011, the Western European Union ceased to exist and gave all its powers to the European Union. It's a good thing they didn't refer to KGST in the material. Thank you for the floor. [[Applause in the ranks of the independent.]]
u2016-04-27-20	Thank you very much, Congressman. I now give the floor to Congresswoman Agnes of Vada. [[Defiance and interruptions in Jobbik's ranks.]]
u2016-04-27-21	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, I did not see the undivided satisfaction of speaking in this matter, but I think that we should also hear the views of those who feel a little differently about this bill. For the Democratic Coalition, the security of Hungarian citizens is the primary concern. In this respect, DK is facing the current government sharply, but there was one point where we thought that it was necessary to cooperate in the fight against terrorism and in guaranteeing the security of Hungarian citizens. I would like to remind the Parliament that the representatives of the Democratic Coalition voted in favour of the participation of the Hungarian Defence Forces in the military operation against the Islamic State, because we considered it important what one of my fellow Members has already referred to, otherwise the fight against terrorism must be fought in the first place where it is created, and at the moment it is not Hungary, despite any other rumors. In all their official briefings, public authorities are constantly talking about the fact that, despite the security situation in Europe, terrorism and the possibility of committing terrorist attacks are low in Hungary, but it is also important that the Parliament deals with this issue. However, I would like to make it clear, ladies and gentlemen, that not only the security dimension of the fight against terrorism must be examined, but also the issues concerning the freedoms of Hungarian citizens, and these issues are not secretly discussed by the Members of Parliament sent to Parliament. This bill, I add, cannot be secret to any text of the Fundamental Law, not only to the Members of Parliament, but also to the Hungarian citizens. I therefore agree with my fellow Members who said that a much wider social dialogue would have been needed, especially in the light of the fact that Parliament's plenary sessions are no longer being broadcast, so the citizens who are interested can only keep track of it in the gallery and in one or two other Internet places, and if they let the press in, the press can report on what is going on in the Parliament, but they are no longer able to get into the Parliament. [[10.50]] Therefore, even if we had just been invited, we would not have participated in the five-party negotiations. [[Defiance in the ranks of the governing parties and the Jobbik.]] - or multi-party negotiations - and we wouldn't have participated because we believe that there is a need for a wide range of social dialogue in these types of matters. Obviously, my fellow Members who sit on the Defence and Police Committee and the National Security Committee not only for a hobby, or who are sitting there not only because they have not gone anywhere else without a better result, know that the fight against terrorism does not begin at the start of fighting, we are confronting terrorists when the terrorist act has already taken place, but we are putting the emphasis on prevention. The question of prevention is more important than anything else. In this case, the current legislation gives the Hungarian Government the opportunity to take the necessary measures. Many people have said that security cannot be a party political issue. I can agree with that, but unfortunately, the practice of the last few years shows that this is a political, often foreign policy issue for some parties. My colleague Szelényi referred to the fact that this is indeed the opening of the East, this strong Russian relationship is a fundamental obstacle to cooperation with partner secret service bodies in Western Europe, in the Western world, even if the situation in this area, namely in the fight against terrorism, is better than in all other areas. Unfortunately, Russia's hybrid fighting order and warfare against Western Europe is manifest here, and if there is someone who needs to know about them, it is the Ministry of the Interior. I am deeply disappointed, hearing my fellow Members here, that the government has decided to use the tactics of a good policeman, a bad policeman, and to make the Ministry of Defence a bad policeman, and the Ministry of Interior a good policeman, pointing out, as if to suggest, on what professional basis, the Ministry of Interior will bring its bill to Parliament. I have to say, fellow Members, I almost believed that this was the case, but if someone reads more carefully the first two sentences of the general justification for the bill, it will immediately realize that this is all a big hoax. What is in this general justification? In the second half of the 1990s - this is a presentation of the current situation - the population experienced unprecedented phenomena such as the war of organized gangs of criminals spreading territory, mass prostitution, killings, bombings and so on. The new government, which stood up in 1998, I would like to say that Prime Minister Viktor Orbán, his Minister of Interior, was Sándor Pintér, so that there is something that has not changed, has been given the situation ready, against which immediate and effective measures had to be taken. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the fight against terrorism is a little more important than the fact that such political - well, perhaps - humorism should take place in the general justification. In addition to prevention, I believe that, as a result of globalisation, very strong emphasis should also be placed on international cooperation, and this, I think, is not a legislative task, but a need for government cooperation and foreign policy change from the government. The other very important issue - and I have already talked about it - is social support. Ladies and gentlemen, Those who deal with security policy know that the government is not able to guarantee 100% security, because there is no 100% security. In order to increase the sense of security of Hungarian citizens, it is also necessary for society to be involved in this matter. However, society, my fellow Members, must be taught a little bit, and my fellow Member Szelényi pointed out that in such a situation, especially with the coming of the summer, the government should rather use its existing financial resources to inform Hungarian citizens, if it is to inform them, not about hatred, not about false illusions, but about what the Hungarian citizens should do in the event of a possible terrorist attack or prevention, what opportunities they have, and to encourage Hungarian citizens to help public authorities to gather information. Because my fellow Members can set up Nibek, Sebek, Tibek here - you can call it whatever you want, we know precisely that this is the top secret service that László Kövér, President of the Parliament, has drilled in the previous term - anything if we cannot experience that members of society, Hungarian citizens, want to help the bodies. After all, Hungarian citizens need to be taught that if a barrel is rolled into their neighbors every night, at least a little bit should be suspicious and give some information to the competent bodies. I assume that there must be trust here, and this is the fundamental problem, my fellow Members, that there is no confidence in either the government or some of the government's national competent bodies - and I would like to refer to the TEK here. On my part, there is absolutely no trust in TEK, and, as my fellow Member Bellozó said, he put it very well, but it is a total downfall of János Hajdu's activities in the media. I understand that there are people who think they're getting a general star, and they're going to be Chuck Norris right now, and so it's their job to explain from TV to TV what the terrorist threat is in Hungary, and what Islamic fibers there is, and of course, it's possible that the entire membership of the National Security Committee will be fooled by this service, which we know is a police agency, but it's also very popular for a secret service body - although I think that sooner or later the government will clarify this - but if there's no confidence in the Counter-Terrorism Center, its leader, then I don't see how there will be confidence in another such body. I would like to say that because János Hajdu and some people have failed TEK, that would not justify the setting up of a complete new secret service. I know this is painful for many people, but in terms of counter-terrorism, I think it is worth relying on Western European experience, where it is typically not known who is leading counter-terrorism in that country. It is quite clear that this bill is a confession to the fact that the Counter-Terrorism Centre, which has been on uncertain legal ground, has failed. During the speeches, my pro-government colleagues referred to the fact that, after 2001, similar laws were introduced in the United States of America and in Britain in order to sabotage security. My fellow Members must have read that at the moment in London there is a debate about the fact that there are problems with obtaining information from the British secret service due to mass data acquisition. I would also like to draw the attention of my fellow Fidesz lead speaker when he said that, thanks to these measures - for example, introduced in Britain and the United States of America - there was no terrorist act that cheated on him because, unfortunately, on 7 June 2005, three bombs were detonated in London. So what I can tell you, fellow Members, is that laws can be made, because it can help increase our sense of security, and even if measures are to be taken, they can also improve security morale and security awareness, but the laws also do not prevent terrorists from getting in if there is no social support beyond the social consensus in this matter. My fellow opposition Members have already mentioned that the end of this series of discussions on the fight against terrorism was that they simply tabled an amendment to the Fundamental Law and then added an amendment as an individual motion for an amendment. My fellow Members, the fight against terrorism should be dealt with in a uniform structure, and such a salad law is acceptable and otherwise not acceptable. And then I'd like to get to the top-secret service very briefly, because no one's talking about it like that, but it's a top-secret service. This was in the previous term, I say once again, the Nibek, with a slight change, but this is it, and by the way, my fellow Members of the Fidesz recognised this at the meeting of the Defence and Police Committee, where they said it was a little different, but it is different. This top-secret service will not only collect data from the cooperating bodies in the fight against terrorism and in the fight against organised crime on a mandatory basis, but in all its security policy analysis activities, which will be carried out at the government's request. [[11.00]] In Hungarian, the Tibetans can obtain information from the cooperating bodies on any matter that the government considers to be a security policy issue and the cooperating bodies are obliged to provide them. By the way, the technology that you use here in the law is typical political communication and political technology, which is called security, where each case is approached from the point of view of the safety of Hungarian citizens or of citizens in general. And from now on, in the course of Tibet's activities, any matter the government will consider to be a security policy analysis, and anything here can really be a matter of security, from economic policy to health, the cooperating bodies will have a duty to provide information. My fellow Member Péter Kónya has already pushed, and I expressly reject the fact that the military national security services are the Minister of the Interior, I assume that the Minister of Interior, because I am still uncertain which minister will supervise the Tibek, the Minister of Secret Service, may eventually surprise us in this matter as well... - but that the military national security service serving the Hungarian Defence Service and the military national security service serving the Ministry of Defence, which is a direct body of the Minister, provides information to the Ministry of Interior on a mandatory basis without justification, is unacceptable. I would like to say, fellow Members, that, by the way, it will not solve the problem that exists, that information between the various organisations may be lost. To solve this, the creation of various inter-wallet committees is a possible way. Besides, there was and perhaps there was an anti-terror coordination committee and a national security cabinet where this information could be connected. In any case, I think it is unprecedented and unacceptable that the military national security service, as the independent security body of the Hungarian Defence Service, should be required to provide information to Tibek on a mandatory basis. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[Zsuzsanna Szelényi and Péter Kónya applaud.]]
u2016-04-27-22	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. I give the floor to Congressman Gábor Fodor. [[István Ikotity is replaced by Dezső Believing in the notary seat.]]
u2016-04-27-23	Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to start by saying that combating terrorism is a matter that is capable of reaching broad consensus at international or national level. For our part, too, liberals, I myself, representing the Liberal Party, supported the action against the Islamic State, this government's proposal. After all, this is also a matter in which we need cooperation, we need consensus, we need support, I would stress, at international and national level. So the subject itself is capable of creating this type of consensus. The question is whether the proposal before us is suitable for this and whether the government has done everything in its power to reach this type of political agreement. Well, my answer is no. So it is not suitable for this and it has not done everything, so we cannot support this proposal for our part. Allow me to present my arguments on this point to you now. Let me advance that, for my part, it is natural for us to represent different political values here in Parliament. That's what we do, that's what we do. If we didn't, we wouldn't be doing our job. I don't think party politics is something ugly and ugly, and it's always got to go above it. I think that this is entirely appropriate, that some people represent a conservative set of values based on tradition, tradition, one based on socialist values based on equality, and one based on freedom. They must always form the common good through their cooperation and debate. It's only natural. Sometimes it's cooperation, sometimes it's a debate. If it weren't, that would be the problem. Of course, on certain issues, as I said, this action against terror is typically such a question, we need to find areas of cooperation, and it is important to strive for it. Well, I said that I did not think this proposal was appropriate, and I would also like to make the few important arguments that we liberals, who believe in freedom and represent the community of people who love freedom, think that there is a problem with the proposal before us. Well, first of all, the most important problem is that the government is asking for powers of a kind, I am thinking about the amendment of the constitution here, I am thinking about the amendment of the countless laws in the legislative package, to which it is essential to answer the question that many of my opposition colleagues have already spoken about here, whether there is sufficient credit from the government, and whether there is confidence from the representatives on the opposition side of political life. The answer to that was clearly skeptical or not generally. My answer is also no; it is a very specific case, because in recent months there has been a test of how much confidence the government can have on this issue. Let us not forget that the government has declared a national crisis, calling it a migration crisis. In the context of the national crisis, they have not yet been able to give a fair explanation of what legal authority they have done this on the basis of and which passage of the bill, which they have imposed through themselves, corresponds to the publication of the national crisis. I myself asked the Minister of the Interior several questions, the last time Sándor Pintér answered me, that answer was completely meaningless and did not indicate one specific place in view of what the reference basis was. We know that the law that you have adopted is quite clear and precise that either the public security of a settlement or public health must be substantially compromised by some kind of situation or act that would make this national crisis manifest. He also came back from the international scene that the government claimed that this was the case in Hungary, yet they could not name any specific settlement, any public safety threat, any public health threat. And once again, the Minister of the Interior has not been able to answer my many written questions with one specific question. Well, ladies and gentlemen, the question we need to ask ourselves is that if, in such a situation, we see that the government has passed a bill and then abused the bill, because the introduction of a national crisis is clearly an abuse of law, because there is no legal basis for this, then why can we assume that the proposal before us will not be abused, that it will not abuse the rights granted in the proposal before us. Unfortunately, I have to say that we cannot assume on this basis, because, of course, trust is something that can be advanced, it is difficult to advance if we are directly in a situation that, well, we see the concrete example of recent months. A decision has been made in the Parliament, a bill has been passed, rights may be limited on the basis of the bill, but it is necessary to specify specifically how they are doing so. They restricted it, they didn't define it, they abused the law. So, ladies and gentlemen, on the part of the liberals, we cannot give our support to such a proposal at a time when you, pro-government Members and the government itself, have proved in recent months that you are abusing the powers that Parliament has given you. That's one of the things I wanted to say as a counterargument. The other important counter-argument to the amendment of the Constitution and to any attempt at the Constitution at all is that, in our view, the Constitution is entirely sufficient. At the moment, the provisions of the Constitution, the provisions of the Fundamental Law - because today we call what should be called the Fundamental Law - so these provisions, constitutional provisions in the Fundamental Law, are absolutely sufficient to deal with the crises that arise. After all, let us not forget that the Fundamental Law provides for a state of emergency, a state of emergency, a preventive defense situation, an unexpected attack and an emergency. [[11.10]] Five exceptional situations are clearly defined in the Fundamental Law, which is absolutely sufficient to deal with a situation that they are trying to describe in the explanation of what situations may arise in the event of a terrorist situation. There is no need for a sixth definition, no need to describe a sixth state of emergency, a constitutional situation, a constitutional situation, and to put it into the constitution. The five I mentioned earlier are absolutely enough to deal with this issue. I don't know why they think they don't. Is it because, say, the President of the Republic would be given special permissions to act in such a situation? Is it because instead of the government, the President of the Republic should act in certain situations? Maybe that's what's causing the problem, which is why you want to put a sixth special, extraordinary situation, crisis, into constitutional order? Doesn't the government trust that the Parliament or the President of the Republic will act on the basis of the necessary authority due to these crises? We're not getting answers to these questions. One thing is certain: once again, we liberals see that there is no reason to make a constitutional change to the Fundamental Law. There's no reason! The current five situations are fully sufficient to address any future problems. [[Károly Kontrat: That is not what this proposal is about, Congressman.]] The third problem is a political problem with this whole issue. The political problem appears there, also mentioned in this debate by several fellow Members, that when we talk about the specific details of the bill before us, for example, whether the creation of this so-called Tibek, which was previously designated by Ágnes Vadai as a top secret service body is justified, not justified, coordination is not necessary. I think that there may be justification and that there must be coordination at national and international level. By the way, I note that the arguments made by Agnes Vadai on this matter are intriguing as to how well and properly this is defined in the proposal. One thing is certain, however, that the political situation that is in Hungary today is an obstacle to all kinds of coordination, including domestic coordination and, in particular, international coordination; the political situation that many people have already talked about and I would like to underline, and this is direct contact with Russia from Hungary. When we talk about international problems with regard to terrorism and international action, we see that in the context of terrorist acts within Europe, one of the critical elements that everyone is talking about is that there is no adequate flow of information between European secret services, there is no adequate flow of information between America and Europe. This coordination must therefore be strengthened at international level, and it must also be improved in Hungary, in cooperation between the various secret service bodies. I'm sure of it. So this could be a direction that could be eligible, I think, but it cannot be said without saying that Hungary is in a difficult situation, and the reason why this government will not be able to act effectively on this issue is because it is surrounded by a mistrust of the Hungarian government today because of its dubious economic and political relations with Russia, which essentially poses a national security risk both in NATO and in the European Union. Therefore, secret service organisations at international level, at European and US level, will not in the first place share information with the Hungarian secret service that should be used to act effectively. This is a political problem. So if the government wants to act effectively against terror, then, in addition to taking measures that I referred to first, to introduce a national crisis without a constitutional basis, one cannot refrain from obviously doing so because, by the way, it is obvious to the people that an ordinary person wants to live safely, and not just the ordinary person, all of us who are here. Obviously, the safety of our family, personal security, the safety of our loved ones overrides everything. It's a natural thing. You can't abuse that. It's such an important thing that you can't in any way betray people's trust. You can't just put a crisis, send cops and soldiers out on the street for no reason because we think that this is strengthening our political intentions or our political position in the political struggle. Unacceptable! That's the line you can't cross. Returning to the basic political problem, they will not be able to deal with this situation, only with such visual actions, not in substance, because Hungary and the Hungarian secret service will not have access to the right information until they change this political direction. So these are the three main reasons why we think we can't support this. Once again, I would like to underline that they have abused the legal authority, the introduction of a national crisis, so they have lost confidence. On the other hand, there is no reason to make a constitutional change under any circumstances, and of course - I note in parentheses, but of course this is not what the debate is about - let us not be mistaken - it is an important element of this whole issue that there will be a constitutional amendment now, or there will be no amendment, because without it, you say it a thousand times, it is difficult to interpret this whole proposal. Thirdly, there is a political problem in the background that I have referred to, this is Russian friendship and a dubious relationship with the Russians, and therefore the national security risk. I would also like to say at the end of my speech that, of course, I think it is right that the government has sought to have some kind of coordination and cooperation between political forces. That's right. I would just like to underline that it would have, of course, been appropriate to involve representatives of the various parties in the circles of so-called independents, because there are parliamentary parties sitting here, who are not parliamentary parties, but parliamentary parties. So I think this could have been a courtesy gesture. There is no legal obligation of the government, of course, but it would have been a courtesy gesture. In addition to the negotiations, there is no harm in reaching consensus or agreement. Now it seems that this agreement, this consensus, is far enough away, even if certain elements of the bill have improved. This has also been mentioned by my fellow Members, such as the fact that it has been removed from the proposal to ban any public event on the grounds of terrorist threats, but the text remains problematic, since, let us say, political-type events can still be banned, as several civil society organisations, including the SAO, have pointed out. So, while there are positive elements during the negotiation and there are changes, overall, the eligibility level of the whole package does not reach the level that we could say yes for. So our vote will be "no" and we ask the government not to sacrifice freedoms under any circumstances on the altar of perceived or real terror threats and legal changes. Thank you for your attention.
u2016-04-27-24	Thank you, Congressman. I'll give the floor to Congresswoman Ágnes Vadai for two minutes. [[In the notary seat László Földi is replaced by Attila József Móring.]]
u2016-04-27-25	Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Allow me to draw attention to one more part of my concerns about the super-secret service, which relates to the system of signalling the personal data of citizens. The Salad Act amends the National Security Act 41. § 1 which has so far defined which databases the national security services may place signals in order to carry out their duties. I think that's okay, because they need to be able to collect certain data. This was usually a register of citizens' personal data and addresses, real estate records, and I can accept the registration of companies. However, there is one part that I would like the government to justify. This is an indication in the records of the bodies managing the health and related data. This, ladies and gentlemen, may affect any Hungarian citizen, since these signals will typically be placed in the data of Hungarian citizens, not in foreign data, but in the data of Hungarian citizens, in the Hungarian data register. Can you tell me what the reason is, and I would very much like to know that national security services want to search and place signals in health data and databases and in the Hungarian health database? This raises very serious, not only legal issues in Hungary, but also, in my view, issues relating to European and international standards. Health data is almost the most protected human rights data, and I think that in this respect I see no guarantee from the government that these data would be researched in such a way that it would be acceptable and that they could research at all. So the government has to answer that. Thank you, Mr. President. [[11.20]]
u2016-04-27-26	Thank you, Congresswoman. For two minutes, Mr Péter Kónya will have the floor.
u2016-04-27-27	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I forgot to tell you one thing, and I would like to emphasise that to the Secretary of State. Although I have said that I do not agree with the creation of Tibet, but if they create it, and I have no doubt that they will probably vote in favour of this bill, it was in the previous operation of both the Sebek and the TEK that they functioned as a kind of virtual organization, which means that these organisations do not operate with a permanent stock, but with a task assigned to them by different organisations, and they plan to operate in the same way with Tibek. This may, however, result in a crisis situation, where appropriate, in which the stock deployed from different organisations will not represent the central interests and will not go against the organisation that led him there. Therefore, there may be conflicting interests which may be in conflict with the interests of all Hungary, where appropriate, with the interests of a particular leading body. This means that, since their situation is uncertain by being in control of them, it will primarily represent the interests of the governing organization within the Tibek, as they did within the Sebek and do within the TEK, because they know very well that if they go against their mother organisation in such a case - I am talking about the fact that we are talking to each other about competing organisations - in the event that it goes against its mother organisation, there is no chance that, for example, when they eliminate the Sebek now, it can go back to its mother organisation. Therefore, in terms of more efficient operation, I suggest that once the Tibek are set up, this should work with a permanent staff and not with a controlled staff. Thank you.
u2016-04-27-28	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I'm asking if anyone else wants to take the floor, make a speech. [[There's no candidate.]] I don't see any contact. Dear Parliament, The general debate is closed - I see you are preparing, Mr State Secretary - and I will give the floor to the rapporteur to respond to what has been said in the debate. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2016-04-27-29	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, First of all, I would like to thank the Members who spoke in the debate for having expressed their views on this very important bill, on which I would like to reiterate, in summary, that this proposal is for the safety of the Hungarian people, Hungary. It does not require any more permissions for the Hungarian authorities, the Hungarian services than either the Western European, the European Union or the overseas services have received, and the aim is not to restrict freedoms, but to guarantee the security of Hungarian people in this situation, in this new situation, which is in Europe, in the world in relation to terrorist threats. It has been said several times in the debate, and several Members have said that there is no 100% security. I think that this cannot be debated, but it must be explicitly stated, and our government's determined ambition is to do so. Yes, we strive to ensure the greatest possible security, which is why this bill was born, so we will do everything we can to ensure that the Hungarian people, Hungary, are safe. One of the very important tools for this is the presentation of the legislative package, and on the other hand it is very important that adequate resources are also available; several Members mentioned this in their comments. I would like to announce that I would like to inform this House that the budget of the Ministry of Interior in the 2017 draft budget submitted yesterday is increasing by 158.2 billion compared to 2016, of which the increase of the police is HUF 51.7 billion. I would therefore like to underline, Mr Parliament, that the necessary resources are also available in order to combat terrorism effectively. So, as I said, one of the important elements of this struggle is the bill, the package of laws, the other is the financial resources, the provision of the necessary resources, and the third is international cooperation, since Hungary is a member of the European Union, NATO, various international organisations. With these international organisations, these international services, the Hungarian authorities maintain effective contacts with the Hungarian authorities in order to exchange, cooperate and act jointly against organised crime or international terrorism. And what is still a very important requirement is that we also adapt the training and training of personnel, personnel authorised to do so, to the conditions, the challenges that today's fight against terrorism requires. So once again, the bill is not a magical instrument, it is not a miracle instrument, but it is a very important tool in the hands of the Hungarian authorities, the Hungarian services, so I ask the Honourable Parliament to support it now. Thank you very much for the statements made on behalf of the factions. Mr Péter Csizi, representing the Fidesz fraction, said that the Fidesz fraction supports him. I ask the Member to do the same in the vote. Mr President, Mr Molnár Zsolt, Member of the MSZP, said when he highlighted the results of the negotiations so far that agreement had not yet been reached. Honourable Congressman, We trust and work to ensure that agreement is fully reached. We are currently consulting Mr Attila Péterfalvi on the processing of Tibet in order to include the requirements that you have proposed. As regards the regulation restrictions on events, we will also consider the rules on them. Not only in relation to your contribution, but in general, I would like to note or say that all amendments will be examined in substance in order to achieve the greatest agreement. We strive and trust in the way that we can obtain the largest majority during the negotiations, during the debate and during the vote, and we can provide the greatest support for this proposal. Thank you again, Congressman. [[István Ikotity replaces the gullible Dezső in the notary seat.]] József Attila Móring, representing the KDNP fraction, said that they supported it, listing the virtues of the bill. Thank you very much, Mr President, for your statement, I would also like to ask you to support it in the vote. Mr Ádám Mirkóczki spoke on behalf of the Jobbik faction. Thank you very much for your comment. In connection with the verification of encrypted communications, he formulated and repeated his previous statements on which the necessary amendments were transferred to the internal affairs portfolio. I would also like to confirm here, ladies and gentlemen, that we have a goal here, namely, that terrorists, criminals, cannot use channels where they can hide - to use this term - by their conduct to carry out criminal offences against the authorities. We have created the legal guarantees of this requirement in this proposal, so the safety of Hungarian people and Hungary is our priority. Quasi, we have not looked at the issue from the side of the services, but from the side of security. I believe that you have managed to develop a wording that is appropriate for you. He said that there could be consensus in the final vote. I wish you sufficient wisdom and support for this consensus in the rest of the debate and in the vote. Mr András Schiffer spoke in the debate on behalf of the LMP fraction. Thank you very much for the Member's comment. He also expressed 100% security or lack of security. I will also say here, we are trying to ensure that we have the greatest security, that we have the greatest security against absolute security, and that is what this proposal is all about. He told us not to make America out of Hungary. I would like to say that our goal is not to classify American legislation and legislation, and our aim is to make the rules and the best possible rules in accordance with the interests of the Hungarian people. [[11.30]] That is why I also ask for Mr Schiffer's support for the future and for the vote. As to Mr Schiffer's further comments, I would like to say - and I regret that the Member is not in the Chamber at the moment, but I am answering his concerns - that according to the Hungarian legislation currently in force, the police have three parts. There's the general police force, this is the National Police Headquarters, there's the National Defence Service and there's the Counter-Terrorism Center. Minister Pintér strongly does not support the integration of the police into the TEK or any change in their status or status. Several of my fellow Members have said rather unfriendlyly about TEK, the Counter-Terrorism Centre. I would like to say that the Counter-Terrorism Centre has served the safety of the Hungarian people during its nearly six years of activity, which it has also informed the Parliament and the committees of which I can say that I would like to thank the staff of the Counter-Terrorism Centre for their work so far. We hope that they will also work effectively in the future for the safety of all of us. As to your comment on the logging, I would like to say that we will examine it. As regards the judgment in Strasbourg, I would like to say that that judgment is not final. When he came to me in connection with the debate, he himself acknowledged that it was not yet final. Our independent colleague Zsuzsa Szelényi said that anyone can come to Hungary for money. I would like to say that under the laws currently in force, the Constitutional Protection Office, the police and the competent services are investigating these matters, examining each request individually, and where the security of Hungary is threatened by the decision, they are taking the necessary measures, so this statement is not true. As regards the international relations with Russia, Russia and Hungary, I would like to make a basis. I think that it is right to say that, when developing and maintaining Hungary's international relations, the Government of Hungary always formulates Hungary's national interests, thus creating relations, thus maintaining and maintaining relations. This applies to all international relations, including our relationship with Russia, my honourable fellow Member. As regards the comments made by Mr Péter Kónya, I would like to thank you. Your question was why the Tibetan Secret Service would be here. The reason why the Tibek will be a secret service is because he handles the data of the various secret services in his responsibilities, and that is why he should be a secret service himself. And why this will be under the control of the Ministry of Interior if Parliament votes and adopts this law: because, Congressman, the majority of the secret services and the police are also under the control of the Ministry of Interior. As regards the opposition that the Minister of the Interior withdraws powers and powers from the Minister of Defence, this is entirely unfounded, honourable Member. As far as resources are concerned, I spoke from the necessary resources to ensure that the necessary resources will be provided in the 2017 budget. On behalf of our fellow Member, Ms Vadai, I would like to say that the data received from the Military National Security Service can only be data related to terrorism. I would like to say this clearly that there is no other data, no other data, no military data included. The bill specifically tells us what information the Tibetans may request from the Military National Security Service. I ask the congresswoman with due respect to study the bill [[Dr. Ágnes Vadai: Minister of State!]] And I'm sure you'll get your answer. With regard to your question on health records, honourable Member, I would like to say that the marks in the registers are always targeted, and this is precisely stated in the interpreter's provision. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, I believe that today, with the general debate, we have taken a very important step to ensure that this very important bill will be adopted by the House and that the safety of Hungarian people, Hungary, will be served by the adoption of this proposal. Once again, I would like to thank all my fellow Members who spoke in this debate. Thank you for the support of the factions. We are confident that the amendments tabled and the amendments to be submitted will also serve this purpose. Thank you very much for your cooperation and your participation in the debate. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-04-27-30	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, The amendments may be submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. Dear Parliament, Before we move to the next agenda, I would like to announce that, at the initiative of the Jobbik Group, the extraordinary meeting of the House Committee will take place today at 2.30 p.m. in the Delegation Room. Dear Parliament, There will be a general debate on the bill to amend the laws relating to certain school cooperatives until closure. Presentation submitted by MEPs Lajos Kósa, Kristóf Szatmáry and Sándor Czomba Fidesz T/10316. is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, I give the floor to Mr Kristóf Szatmáry, the rapporteur of the item on the agenda, within a 30-minute time frame.
u2016-04-27-31	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr. President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, We are fortunate in this spring session to discuss, for the second time, the amendment of the law on student cooperatives. I think this is a clear sign that it is important for both the Fidesz fraction and the government to integrate young students and students into the world of work as much as possible. It is not by accident that we can see in the European Union that youth unemployment is a huge problem. In some southern European countries, this is up to 20-30 percent, and we are trying to do everything we can to make it easier for students in higher education to transition to the world of work, either with certain restrictions in high school or with the opportunities available in Hungary. Fortunately, we also have tools for this, because as a Hungaricum in Hungary, students' associations have been helping this work very effectively for nearly 30 years, and we think that we are trying to help this effective work with the possibilities of legislation. Let me give a few numbers to my fellow Members. On average, 180-200 000 students in Hungary do some occasional work every year, so their integration into the world of work is done through this. Of the approximately 180 to 200 thousand students, about 130,000 work in a school cooperative. School cooperative employment is a special, atypical form of employment, which is essentially due to its flexibility to be so popular and has so many members. It tries to adapt to the needs, qualifications and schedule of members, but due to its atypical nature, by being regulated in the labour code, in practice, there are many cases of interpretation problems and practical problems. In order to address the problems that arise effectively with the interests of students, several changes have been made to student work rules. Let me also revive this so that we can put the current regulation in a framework that can be understood by all. [[11.40]] In June last year, the Parliament adopted, perhaps even with the support of opposition representatives, a bill to help students work in school cooperatives and the employment of persons with disabilities in the framework of temporary agency work, which clarified some things, including the rules on entitlement to social security benefits, the rules on exemption from social contribution tax and the suspension of student status. With regard to temporary agency work, the employer must, of course, comply with the requirements of equal treatment on the basis of the previous amendment, and, in the case of a modification of the rehabilitation law, the employee should be taken into account in the number of the agency providing the loan so that if the mandatory level of employment of persons with disabilities is not met, the lender must pay the rehabilitation contribution up to the required level of employment. This was also a very important amendment last year. But a few weeks ago, Parliament discussed, as I mentioned, the amendment of the law on student cooperatives. The essence of this was how to ensure the conditions of professional practice through a student association, since, on the one hand, the problem in school cooperatives basically consisted in the fact that, despite the ability to carry out the traineeship through the work of the student cooperative, as there was no basic legal relationship between the vocational training centre and, on the other hand, between the workplace and the university for the establishment of student associations, and therefore, despite the fact that they worked under the same conditions within a student cooperative, they could not recognise the professional practice carried out within the framework of the school association. The legal conditions for this were met a few weeks ago. This is very important, by the way, during the summer period, when many university students will do their internships. To sum up the bill before us, I would like to say that it is basically finally putting work in place within the framework of student associations. The point of the amendment to the proposal is that, from under the Labour Code, it essentially transposes the work under the cooperative law, otherwise it does so by bringing the regulation into line with the EU directives. This is also necessary in order to remove the practical problems arising from the confusion of interpretation that stem from the fact that student work was also regulated in the labour code. As a result, the regulation of Mt. By avoiding it, students will no longer be considered employees, but cooperative members, which are regulated in detail by the Civil Code, who will act within the framework of the legal institution of personal participation. On the basis of the proposal, the possible way of personal participation will have to be defined in the statutes of the cooperative, as the student will no longer work in the framework of employment but will perform the tasks entrusted to him by the principal, but otherwise the rights conferred by the provisions of the Code of Work will be fully transferred to the framework of the Law of the Ptk. by the proposal. In practice, this means that, in the future, the cooperative and student will not be able to enter into a framework agreement, but will be able to work under a membership agreement. As a new element, the proposal also provides for the establishment of a Community fund for education in line with the purpose of the school cooperatives, which will be considered as non-distributable cooperative assets in the future. The proposal also provides for the allocation of profits, in line with the European Council Regulation of 1435/2003. The basis of this regulation is that the cooperative facilitates the advancement of its members in accordance with specific rules, and therefore it has to allocate 85 percent of its annual net turnover to its members, i.e. to students. In view of this, the legislative provisions on labour control are also amended, under which the inspection will, of course, continue to cover the school cooperative and the recipient of the service. Finally, with regard to taxation, the proposal provides that the school cooperatives must also notify the tax number of the cooperative and the tax identification, social security identification and student ID number of the member of the school cooperative on the date of conclusion of the new membership agreement. Overall, it can be said that the proposal regulates the manner in which each member's personal contribution is to be carried out, taking into account the purpose of the school cooperatives and in accordance with the principles of cooperatives. in accordance with its provisions. Of course, the proposal also takes into account educational and training activities related to the tasks of school cooperatives, which contribute to the easier integration of members into the labour market environment. It is also worth mentioning on the proposal that all rights which have been granted to students at the moment under the Labour Code will be passed on to the cooperative law, so that no one can go wrong. In fact, even through the distribution of profits, the current regulation provides extra guarantees to students working under the student association, precisely because there have been some recent scandals where students could not obtain their money from working in student associations. Such problems are also tried to be dealt with by the current system. We hope that working within the framework of student associations, by falling under the cooperative law, can retain the benefits that have already been achieved: flexibility, indeed easier work for students, the possibility of entering the first job in the context of school associations, which are truly hungarian. We hope that the more than 100,000 students who are beginning to become familiar with the world of work in this form will be able to contribute effectively to the overall performance of the national economy again next year. That is why I ask my fellow Member to support me, and I trust that the Government will also support this proposal. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-04-27-32	Thank you very much, Congressman Satmary. I ask you, on behalf of the government, the Secretary of State Cseresnyés wishes to speak now or later. [[Peter Cseresnyés: Now.]] It says now. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary. [[László Földi takes his place in the notary seat.]]
u2016-04-27-33	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, For many years, the Hungarian government has consistently sought to seek and introduce solutions that serve the introduction of young people into the world of work and easier work. In the international sense, a unique form of school cooperatives, which has been in operation for several decades in Hungary, has also been re-regulated in recent years in order to provide a new approach to youth unemployment. School cooperative services are a business-based solution that, building on the needs of the market and on the self-care of young people, introduces young people into the world of work in student years as a complement to the education system. As a result of government efforts, the size and economic role of Hungarian school cooperatives are now exemplary. Their operation is beneficial not only to students, but also to the state, education and participating employers. Work in the school cooperative is not only an income supplement for students, but also an opportunity, as has already been said, to gain a wide range of professional experience even before their studies are completed, a system of relationships developed over student years, and the references obtained can be used for their own benefit in the labour market. It can now be shown that there is lower unemployment among the graduates of the school cooperatives compared to the national average, and that a significant percentage of the graduates work where they worked as members of the school cooperative. [[11.50]] The results described above do not mean that we do not use practical experience that arises during the operation of school cooperatives or that we do not seek solutions that can make better use of their potential and that the legislation applicable to them can be made more reasonable. The bill before us will also be submitted for this purpose. Without the need for completeness, I would like to address only a few of the provisions of the bill which, in my view, best serve what has been said. The proposed legislation as a whole is characterised by the aim of ensuring that the legislation on school cooperatives is in line with the cooperative principles, the cooperative values and the purpose of the school cooperatives. In the current legislation, there is a mixed regime for school cooperatives. The provisions on school cooperatives as cooperatives are laid down in the Civil Code on the one hand and in the Cooperative Act on the other. However, the personal contribution of the student member of the school cooperative, who is a full-time student, is a so-called atypical employment relationship governed by the Labour Code. This system results in a degree of fragmentation, which is also a problem in the application of the law. On the one hand, the proposed legislation changes this fragmentation and, on the other hand, creates greater mobility in terms of the personal involvement of the member of the school cooperative. The bill brings together the main provisions on the school cooperative in a uniform manner in the cooperative law, while repealing the chapter of the Labour Code on the employment relationship between the school cooperative and its member. It complements the rules of the membership agreement for external services between the school co-operative and the day-school student and student. The rules of the Civil Code shall apply to this membership agreement. This solution means that the contribution of the student or student member to the provision of the external service is based not on labour law, but on the relationship of mandate governed by civil law, which better serves the performance of the tasks. This will create a more flexible form of work and professional experience. This will facilitate the application of more dynamic work practices through school cooperatives. Personal contributions to non-external services can be provided either in the context of an employment relationship or in the context of an order relationship. However, the proposal also sets out basic guarantees related to the performance of the task, such as maximum working hours, minimum rest periods and minimum remuneration. The proposal summarises clearly the special membership rules of the school cooperative and the specific provisions arising from public benefit activities. In this context, it provides for the distribution of annual net turnover among members in proportion to their personal contribution. The proposal serves the educational and training objectives of school cooperatives by setting up a Community fund for education and training purposes. The fund can be considered as non-distributable cooperative assets and can only be used for education and training purposes. Dear Parliament, I believe that the proposal that has been tabled is an integral part of the process that has started with the legislative steps taken by the government in recent years, and which results in an increase in the marketability and improvement of the functioning of school cooperatives. Therefore, if you agree with the proposal, I ask you to vote in favour of it. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-04-27-34	Thank you, Secretary of State Cseresnyés. Dear Parliament, Now we're going to hear the speeches from the lead speaker. As I see it, there is no keynote speech from the Fidesz Group; it is probably because of the rapporteur, who said what Fidesz wanted to say overall. Thank you. On behalf of the MSZP Group, I give the floor to Mrs Anita Heringes.
u2016-04-27-35	Thank you very much. It is good to hear that on the part of the Fidesz-KDNP, following the submission of a separate motion by its representatives, two gentlemen, Lajos Kósa and Kristóf Szatmáry, were able to convince their entire group of legislative amendments, as that is probably why they did not give a keynote speech, because this amendment was probably made next to a coffee, and they sat down and discussed it, and they convinced their faction of it. We are not so calm on the part of our faction about this amendment. I have already said this in the amendment of the previous cooperative law that Lajos Kósa has already submitted once to remove students from the labour code. Last week I told him that we were very hoping that after Lajos Kósa's proposal had been withdrawn quickly, we hoped that this idea would go away and be forgotten. But, unfortunately, you guys seem to be serious about this. When student workers were placed under the Labour Code, the main purpose and reason was that a young person, when first entered into the world of work, would get a contract of employment, sign it, and come into this whole world of work. See what rules apply to him, what privileges he has, who will protect his interests, and what an employment contract looks like anyway. I think that this has been an advantage for these students in more ways, since when they were young, they got into the world of work and signed the same employment contracts as their adult counterparts, since we think that it is no other cashier in a large shopping centre who does this job in full-time jobs than the one who does this job as a student or does this job as a temporary worker, does the same job; it is not another fast-food worker, who does this job in a full-time job, who does this job as a student or works as a temporary worker, because these people do the same job, and we think they should do it under the same conditions. This proposal, which is now before us, we believe is damaging the rights of workers, especially the rights of students. After all, we see that the point of the proposal is that in the future, the day-school students of the school cooperative are Mt. are excluded from its scope and included in the Ptk. below. This is detrimental to cooperative members in order to enforce and protect workers' rights. There is a great deal of irresponsible and hasty for the pro-government representatives, as the law on the school cooperative was amended a few weeks ago by Parliament and we have this proposal again. What has the charm is that the final text of the law was published on Parliament's website on the same day that the new amendment was tabled. So either the Members should have thought ahead in the package - and the previous amendment was tabled by Kristóf Szatmáry - and then they would have made this amendment at the same time, or otherwise there is a real confusion with you on this issue as well. It is a significant change compared to the current legislation that in the future, a full-time student and student member of the school cooperative is not engaged in employment, it is not required to carry out their job tasks, but is obliged to carry out the task entrusted to it by the principal. in accordance with its rules. We fear that a contract of employment will no longer have to be concluded, but that these students will be employed with a contract of contract, so that they will slip from a clean white economy to a grey and black economy. After all, at the moment, the amendment and the regulation are true to take over the rights from the Labour Code, but they only take over the minimum rights. And just the minimum that would otherwise be required, nothing more. So I think it can only adversely affect students. The new rule is that the member of the school cooperative performs his/her personal contribution within the framework of a third party service, i.e. an external service, wherever he/she works, 20 minutes after 6 hours of work, while if he/she works more than 9 hours, he/she is entitled to 25 minutes and 11 hours of rest between 2 working days. The proposal does not indicate whether or not the members of the school cooperative would be subject to a collective agreement in place of work. [[12.00]] Because it's Mt. 103. Paragraph 3 of Section 3 allows the employee to have a 60-minute inter-work break if there is a collective agreement. We don't see that regulated at the moment, do we? It's a new rule that every 13 days after work, a person who works for an outside firm is entitled to paid leave. Approximately two days a month will be granted to the members of the school cooperative according to the new rules. However, the new legislation does not include how and how paid leave for work should be granted to members of the school cooperative. It is also unclear how, in the case of shorter or longer work, the person concerned will be able to take his leave, in a coherent manner, or possibly on the 13th day. The two new rules mentioned above are Mt. Rewrite its regular provisions into the new school cooperative legislation, except that, as I said, it takes over the minimum conditions everywhere. At the time of the change of legislation, the Fidesz legislator members of Parliament, who took their names, did not take into account the young people working in the school cooperative, essentially between 19 and 25 when they were not put into the proposal by Mt. It also has more favourable posts for workers. As I said, we really only manage to take over minimum standards at the moment. Instead, the government has spared inter-relationship, consultation with various organisations in the field, social and economic impact studies and analyses on the basis of legislative changes. That is why he submitted this amendment as an individual representative. In the future, Mt. will be released as a full-time student and student member of the school association. from the scope of the Ptk. under its scope, the protection of the labour law concerned is deteriorating, which increases the vulnerability of young people in the world of work. It is a significant change compared to the current legislation that, in the future, the school cooperative will perform its role as a full-time student and student, not as a member of an employment relationship, but not as an employee, but as a principal. This is the second time in a month we've been sitting here and amending this law, and the real problem is that it's signaling its haste and dispersal to the pro-government representatives. The school association has not only been an employer, but it has also carried out advocacy tasks so far. The recipient of a third party service uses school cooperative workers on an economic basis because of the inexpensiveness of the form of employment, i.e. when achieving its economic objective, it is not taken into account by the student work, it must be represented and represented by the school cooperative. If only the minimum conditions have to be met, the rights of students will also be undermined at the moment. The average age of the members of the school cooperative is 17.6 years. As a result, the logic of the normal cooperative self-employment is inadequate, and workers are already vulnerable because of their age and experience. It has served equal treatment so far, that they were covered by the Labour Code, and the school association has kept an eye on their compliance. If not Mt. Members are working under the scope of this Regulation, and there is no one to watch, since many of the warranty rights cannot be claimed outside the employment relationship. The proposal makes no distinction between young and non-young workers, i.e. Mt. 114. § does not apply, the eight-hour employment limit or the cross-relationship calculation. On the basis of the proposal, students will be excluded from the scope of any collective agreement and will not automatically be subject to an employment health check. The application of the principle of equal pay for equal work is over. There are only a few quick examples of how highlighting from the world of work is detrimental to the economic and social interests of workers. The regulation, which we can read in the explanatory memorandum to the proposal, has resulted in substantially different employment relationships between each other in Mt., which has led in particular to confusion of interpretation with regard to temporary employment and work in the framework of the school cooperative. The use of past time - in the explanatory statement, you are using past time - is justified, since the new Mt. Since its introduction, there has been no confusion in interpretation, the distinction is sharp and the application of the law is clarified. The hidden purpose of the amendment is not to pay students the same salary as the full-time worker at the same workplace and not to pay the same freedom. What difference does it make, like I told you, if someone works at the factory next to the tape as a student or full-time? What difference does it make if you work in a supermarket or as a full-time student or a full-time customer? Or what is the difference between a temporary worker and a school cooperative worker? We don't think so. However, the same rights will not apply to student workers from 1 January 2017. It's huge and we think it's a shocking difference, and it's a shocking loss of law. The government can protect young workers by keeping them in the world of work and maintaining employment. You won't have a trial period from now on, you won't have an institution of notice, and by the way, since you're no longer subject to the Labour Control Act, many of your rights will be violated and damaged. It is in society's interest to conclude a 16-18-year-old employment contract, to know the rules and to receive protection from the Labour Code. It is true that, since you amended the Labour Code, the rights and protection of workers have been impaired, but it is still more protection than the students will now receive. For 15 years, cooperative members and young people have been working in employment, and as a result, the employment of young people in the black and grey economy has virtually ceased, and now the legally unregulated period comes instead of the predictable and proven employment relationship. This can't be in anyone's interest, except for the school co-operative leaders who fish in confusion. [[Dr. István Hiller, vice-president of the Parliament, takes the chair.]] What we are now seeing, and what we are now feeling is that what will undermine the rights of students, the protection of wages, the rules of termination, the special regulations for young workers, other rules on labour protection, working hours, rules of rest. All of this is not interpreted in the case of an order relationship. That is why I ask my fellow Members to reconsider whether it is good to distinguish them from the people they work with. Yes, we know from the rumors, and you can read hints in several places that we are under infringement proceedings because of the labour code, but we do not think that the solution is that if they cannot control it differently, they will remove these young people from the labour code. If the EU has a problem with freedom, then let freedom be the same as for temporary workers. But I think you have an apparatus so big that you can figure this out, you can figure out what kind of solutions there are. But the fact that the rights, interests and obligations of students will not be precisely regulated now, and these young people will be removed from the Labour Code, we think that it is not a good solution. Please reconsider, and you have the opportunity, as you did the last time, to withdraw the proposal. Thank you.
u2016-04-27-36	Thank you very much. Welcome. We'll get back to work. Congressman István Hollik, lead speaker of the KDNP. Here you go.
u2016-04-27-37	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, My fellow Member, Kristóf Szatmáry, presented in detail the most important elements of the bill, so I would like to point out a few essential points on my part. First of all, we particularly welcome the fact that if young Hungarians meet the world of work as soon as possible in addition to school or college, besides university, they can gain insight into the world of work, they will have a picture of how to work after they graduate from their schools and graduate. Of course, this can only be supported if the legal framework protects young people and creates clear relations for them and employers alike. A number of progress has been made in recent times, one of the most important things is that college and university students could also have completed their traineeships in the framework of a school cooperative work, according to a recently accepted amendment, of course only if the undertaking providing the work declares that it is otherwise in compliance with the requirements applicable to it. This recently adopted amendment is also particularly beneficial for young people, and it also makes school cooperative work as a typical job more attractive for young people and does not direct them to the grey economy or the black economy, but can participate in the world of work in a regulated way. [[12.10]] We also support the proposal before us, as it aims to put the rules of the school cooperative in the legal system, where it belongs, in its place. It does so, however, that the essence of the regulation - and I think it is important, after the opposition and socialist speech, to stress that the substance of the regulation - is left intact and even slightly affected, and it strengthens it. The point is, he's transferring it from the labor code to the cooperative law. The current legislation considers the agreement between the school cooperative and the student member of the day-school student to be subject to the Labour Code to contribute personally to the member. The proposed amendment to the Cooperative Act requires that the school association and the member agree in writing on the specific task or tasks to be carried out. This agreement goes beyond the scope of the standard contract of employment or employment, and accordingly, the agreement between the school cooperative and the school cooperative's full-time student, student, member is essentially not the provisions of the Labour Code relating to employment contracts, employment contracts, but the rules of the Civil Code on the assignment should be properly applied, and it is important to point out that, in specific cases, the proposal refers to the defining provisions of the Labour Code for the protection of students, students and members. Since the relationship between the school cooperative and the school cooperative is a full-time student, student and member of the school cooperative, it is based on the existence of a so-called secondary, possible legal relationship, the condition of membership is based on the underlying legal relationship. Ladies and gentlemen, In view of the further changes, the proposal also provides for the establishment of a Community fund for education and training, based on the dispositive regulatory approach of the Civil Code. The use of this should be targeted and should only cover the education, training and further training of the members of the cooperative. As a result of the amendments, the regulation of school cooperatives will be linked to the provisions of the civil code established in accordance with the principles of the International Alliance of Cooperatives, thus becoming part of the civil code, as the Civil Code. regulates the specific elements which distinguish the cooperative from other legal entities, in particular from companies. I believe that the school cooperative, as an atypical form of employment in Hungary, has proved its worth, as demonstrated by the experience of the past 10-15 years. As has been said, this amendment affects tens of thousands of young people. Nearly 200,000 of nearly 200,000 student workers work within the framework of a school organization. We believe that the proposal before us is yet another important step for students, so the Christian Democratic People's Party will support this proposal. Thank you so much for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-04-27-38	Thank you very much. The lead speaker of Jobbik is the next speaker. Congressman Gergely Farkas, here you go.
u2016-04-27-39	Thank you very much for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Kristóf Szatmáry started by saying that your regular submissions on the amendment of the school cooperative law now show how important you consider the employment of young people to be, so we think that it is rather euphemistical, and I would rather not think about the fact that on 22 April the previous law on the amendment of the school cooperatives discussed a few weeks ago entered into force, compared to this, a new one was submitted last week. I think that if this had been considered, discussed, considered, these two proposals could have been negotiated at the same time, even because you are already amending what came into force three days ago or four days ago. I'm not sure he's testifying to what he was trying to say here. But I could also mention that we had to urge you for four years to be part of the passive students, to be part of the student work, to be part of the group of students from the school associations. It took you four years to adopt this proposal, but I trust that these things will go faster in the future and will accept our proposals sooner. With regard to the law before us, I regret that there was no consultation. You now have a very big tradition of five-party negotiations, and you have also repeatedly recognised opposition representatives on the previous agenda about how important this is and how good it has been, how far ahead you have made common thinking. I would have liked to have had such a discussion on this subject. I propose to the petitioners not to save this little effort for the next such amendment, we would be open to it. I think that, let us say, in the case of an informal or even formal but five-party consultation, we could be even more effective in order to find out in time whether there are any problems, and we can say our possible reservations in time, because the concerns that Anita Heringes said are justified and thought-provoking. So I would just like to ask the petitioners to reassure us that he and the opposition parties are too concerned, and in fact the young people will be entitled to the same rights and opportunities that worked under the Labour Code, and now the relocation to the cooperative law will not adversely affect them. I would like to highlight two things in particular that have not yet been mentioned here. With regard to the transfer to the cooperative law, it is stated in the new bill that the Labour Control Act should also apply here. In the case of the Labour Checks Act, however, the authority may check, but it is not required to do so at the annual level for each company, for each employer, but we believe that we are talking about a special situation in this case as well. We are talking about employers who, after all, employ young people through the school cooperative, and we also know that young people are, in many cases, more vulnerable than, say, an adult with experience and more legal knowledge. Therefore, we would like to include a stricter provision for this amendment to include a mandatory monitoring of businesses and employers who employ students through a school cooperative, even on an annual basis. Once again, we would consider it important for the sake of young people, because we are talking about people who are really more vulnerable. This is, therefore, one of the proposals, and we will also present an amendment in this regard. I trust that if young people, as you say, are already concerned about the interests of young people, they will be open to receiving this. As a new element, the question of 10 percent is that the amendment provides that at least 10 per cent of the taxed profits and profits of the school cooperative are to be placed in a Community fund for education and training purposes and is to support such objectives. Here, too, we would like to introduce a kind of right of control and control that we really consider this good initiative to be eligible, but indeed, this amount will be spent for the purpose for which the draft sets out, and it will really help students to be able to cope more easily and more easily in the world of work. We have a proposal for these two inspections. So, overall, I would like to ask you to proceed with greater caution on the next occasions, not to save discussion, and I, too, look forward to the answers with interest and curiosity that you can respond to my fellow Member, Anita Heringes, to your concerns, and I hope that we can find reassuring answers to that. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2016-04-27-40	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. There's no independent congressman in the room. Kristóf Szatmáry, representative of Fidesz, asked for a two-minute speech. Here you go. [[12.20]]
u2016-04-27-41	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Anita Heringes's speech made me respond to it in two minutes. Of course, perhaps I will also do so in the debate to put what it has said in a satisfactory manner, even at paragraph 4. You have read and looked at the reference to Mt., then the problems that the proposal contains in relation to working time and rest periods as regards the deviation from the rules of Mt. are clearly not so, since there is a referral back to Mt. in the proposal. Therefore, the rules on rest periods and other rules in Mt. apply also to cooperatives. But let's pause for a moment, my dear fellow Member. You have stated here that this proposal would have been made because anyone here would want to fish in confusion in relation to student cooperatives. I would ask my fellow Member: do you know Csaba Czeglédy, for that matter? [[It's a herring Anita nod.]] I believe that your party partner, I believe, is also a faction leader in Szombathely, because of the economic crimes he has received in a student association for a year and four months, and he is currently being prosecuted. So I resent the fact that you, as far as student associations are concerned, are trying to blacken anyone. Your partymates are the ones who stole the students' money, and they still can't account for it. And by the way, the rules that are in this text partly apply to eliminating the abuses that your fellow students have done in the context of student associations. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2016-04-27-42	Congresswoman Anita Heringes in two minutes, MSZP.
u2016-04-27-43	Thank you very much for the floor. I definitely felt that it was important for me to speak, because I think that what I said raises a lot of question marks about student rights. And what I've said is that we feel that students' rights are damaged by the fact that they don't get the same rights as employees, I think they're facts. That you are outraged by my fellow Member, according to his acting skills, we are used to it. But I think that I have one task here in Parliament today: to protect the rights of students. I think my job is to ensure that the rights of students are not violated, that they are not put in a worse position. My question is, in the context of a contract of engagement that you're about to employ the students, what are they going to do with the assignment? To hit potatoes, sit in a cash register, stock up? It's both linguistically and legally funny, no matter how you look at it. They're supposed to do research. How do you do that? I think that instead of pulverizing political horse-zungs, the rights of students must be protected; not to create artificial uproar, but to see who are the ones who best protect the rights of students. I think you may have felt from my speech that I am concerned here and that there are serious question marks, not only in us but also in my good fellow Member. This amendment does not, in our view, help students' rights. Thank you.
u2016-04-27-44	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, I will ask if anyone else wishes to take the opportunity to speak. [[There's no such signal.]] I'm gonna say no. As no one has made any further comments, the general debate is closed. I'll ask the author if he wants to react. [[For signal:]] Congressman Satmary says yes. Here you go.
u2016-04-27-45	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Of course, there is a change in the way student cooperatives have been regulated, but I think that anyone who is at home in the world of work knows precisely that the legal certainty of an employee is completely independent from the fact that, by the way, the work carried out is carried out either in an order of business, which, according to the proposal submitted, must otherwise comply with the conditions of the Labour Code in this respect, once again, whether it is a rest period, freedom or otherwise, or a normal employment contract under the Labour Code. So there are quite a lot of activities in life that are equally visible and, in some respects, provide more protection than an employment contract. Therefore, it is clear that the student association is also a student cooperative in its name and an atypical employment in its name. So to expect it from him... - and I apologize to my fellow Member, but there is indeed an EU procedure on the Labour Code that could put at risk the atypical employment that is taking place in the framework of student associations. So if you say that in the context of atypical employment we must fully meet what Brussels expects, with this, I apologize to say this, but you are once again on Brussels' side with the community of Hungarian students and student associations, and that party... [[Anita Beringes: Don't hang out! You understand the words I said... the president's ringing the bell.]] I have also listened to the congresswoman, and I would ask that you try to do the same. I would suggest that together we try to find a solution that, I say once again, provides this atypical employment for hundreds of thousands of young Hungarians, which, by the way, continues the system of student cooperatives in a cooperative form that complies with EU law. Of course, I agree with my fellow Member on this, including on Jobbik, and we must do everything we can for this. Of course, if there are proposals for amendments, we would look forward to them with great attention and affection, so that if you think that students would be violated by certain rights, which I do not believe on the basis of the proposal, then I would ask you to submit your proposals on this. We're gonna look at it and we're gonna support it. I think my better fellow Member and I agree that if there is one, it must be treated. Otherwise, we have tried to make a proposal, and I may not have an explanation, but if there are reasons why there are two proposals in a row, it is because the conciliation of this took longer. So this is not a coffee proposal, but we have discussed several times on the part of the Fidesz faction working group with the representatives of the respective wallets, how this proposal can be submitted in such a way that it meets all needs. And here was a time delay, because it's a bigger modification than the previous one. [[The intervention of Anita Herring.]] If we had missed something, I think it could be done without further delay in the form of modifiers. But basically, the aim is to maintain this atypical form of employment for hundreds of thousands of students, to comply with Brussels, to ensure students in rights, I think that it is a common goal, and I would ask everyone to support and even to submit amendments. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2016-04-27-46	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, The amendments will be submitted, and I will inform you that Thursday will be at 4 p.m. Dear Parliament, The 2011 CLXXXIX on the local governments of Hungary follows a series. General discussion of the bill amending the law until closure. Government referral T/10306. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, I give the floor to Mr. Tibor Pogácsás, State Secretary of the Ministry of the Interior, author. Here you go.
u2016-04-27-47	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, By preparing an amendment to the law on local authorities, the government aims to increase the level of administrative work in the municipalities, in fact involving the whole population, by means of computing tools, from the IT side, by requiring the application of ASP technology, on the one hand, and, on the other hand, to create a repository that ensures the analysis of data relating to the management of municipalities, and to place the information provided by the municipality on a simplified, uniform, transparent basis for all. With the use of ASP technology, municipalities do not need to purchase separate computer software and programs on their own. Through ASP technology, municipalities are linked to a service centre. They do not need other tools than a working computer, a browser, and will be able to connect to the necessary records through the ASP system on virtually a web interface, and will be able to provide the necessary reports. [[12.30]] Each local government can see the tasks in a uniform form on the surfaces opened in the browser, and can access services in a uniform form, all the professional systems that start. Although the data are stored in central government cloud, each municipality naturally has access to its own data only, or if it becomes necessary to provide an analysis from the repository, they may have access to the results of the analyses. At present, the use of ASP technology has already been implemented in several municipalities and intermediate municipalities, the aim of the law is to make the ASP programme launched national, to spread throughout the country and to provide a single, economical and efficient IT system to support the local government's tasks. The connection to the ASP centre can primarily be achieved if the individual municipalities are obliged to join and apply the services, professional systems. On the basis of the current legislative text, however, we are also offering an opportunity, and it is possible that the municipality will not apply the professional system provided directly by the ASP, its existing programmes, if they are more advantageous to them, they are used and connected to the ASP system by an IT connection, an interface. In view of the fact that the amendment requires mandatory use of ASP technology, the bill also provides for the future of contracts concerning the use of computer programs to support mandatory tasks already concluded by the local government. These contracts shall be amended to enable the contract to be terminated by the date of connection to the ASP service or to be connected by means of the above-mentioned interface as specified in the Government Regulation. However, as a guarantee element, the bill also states that, in the case of contracts where the amendment is not possible, a form of connection to the ASP system can be achieved as a result, the State will subsequently compensate the municipality for the amount resulting from the forced termination of the contracts granted in the final court decision on the municipality. Dear House, Through the ASP technology, parallel to its national take-up, a data storage facility will be established, to which all municipalities will join. The purpose of setting up a repository is to ensure that data relating to the management of municipalities are verified and that data and data provision are put on a single central basis. With this, it is safe to conclude that it will be possible, in future, to provide IT support for local authorities in accordance with their management tasks, to continue financial control and to prevent, in addition to the public, the process of indebtedness of local authorities. Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I would ask my fellow Members to support the bill. [[It's a rare round of applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-04-27-48	Thank you very much. We will continue the work with speeches by the lead speaker. First up, the lead speaker of Fidesz, Róbert Répássy. Here you go.
u2016-04-27-49	Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, The Fidesz-Hungarian Civic Association Group supports the adoption of the bill. A briefing meeting took place yesterday at the Ministry of the Interior with the participation of the Minister of the Interior and the President of the Hungarian Treasury. By the way, four of these parties with a parliamentary group were present, represented by the political groups of the governing parties, Jobbik and LMP. The reasons for the government's submission of the bill were also mentioned at this meeting yesterday. I consider it very important to point out that the aim of the bill is to operate a general IT system providing secure and sufficient information, to provide general IT assistance to municipalities, which can be used in part by local authorities to provide services, and, of course, to provide the State with the possibility of public financial control by means of data recorded and required there. It was also said at yesterday's meeting that there were some concerns or fears in the municipalities that this was about some change affecting their rights or their rights. I would like to draw attention to the fact that the municipal law is 114. §2 of the Act, which would now be amended as a result of the bill, is therefore Article 114 of the regulation in force. § also includes the obligation that the municipality, the local government, operates an IT system, which also serves as an instrument for continuous state financial control. Therefore, according to the current rules, an IT system should also be operated by the municipality, through which the data recorded there serve as a means of financial State control. Therefore, there is no new audit, financial control, a new IT repository affecting the powers of the municipalities, which is offensive, particularly offensive. This will be a repository in which, indeed, financial State control can be carried out through this repository. Why is it important to create this repository and why it is important to standardise it throughout the country? It is important because state financial control is a continuous activity and is clearly constantly monitoring the use of the State Treasury's own grants and partly monitoring the financial situation of the municipalities. This is, by the way, a statutory obligation, so there is no new control option for the Treasury or any other public body. After all, as I said, the law also states that this is an opportunity as a means of financial control. Dear House, I think that the fears that have been expressed in part in the press, and partly in yesterday's consultation, are due to a misunderstanding. The misunderstanding is that this bill, as I said, would create a new control or introduce a new control power. There is no new control powers. It combines the powers of state financial control already existing in the law, the municipal law, and provides it with an IT support to municipalities and the Treasury. Dear House, So, given the fact that we have had quite a lot of discussions over the last few days on the transparency of public funds and the publicity of public data, I believe that no one can object to the fact that the financial data of local authorities, which are otherwise public data, is stored in a transparent IT system for public bodies. I wanted to point out this because I do not think that I have that much knowledge of the IT background of this bill, and that, in part, questions or doubts have been expressed about municipal rights. I would also like to point out one more thing: yesterday at the conciliation, it was also mentioned that, according to some views, the bill or part of it would contain fundamental provisions. It is important to know that 114 affected by the amendment of the law are: § now is not an essential part of the law. Like I said, 114. The current rules of Section 3 already contain a reference to certain financial State control, which, as I have said, is not extended, is not transferred to the jurisdiction of any other public body, so there is no provision of the law that raises the fundamentality in any respect. The government did not submit it as a fundamental law, and in one part the bill concerns a fundamentality clause, but I have to say, it is entirely technical, which is included in that amendment, and otherwise it is not an essential amendment. So the government, considering the position of the Ministry of Home Affairs and the Ministry of Justice, considers that the bill is not fundamental. For my part, I can support this with the arguments I have just made. On this basis, I ask this House to support the bill. [[12.40]]
u2016-04-27-50	Thank you very much. Congressman Dezső, the lead speaker of the MSZP, is next. Here.
u2016-04-27-51	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, The bill before us can be summarised as a short-term attempt to exacerbate the bureaucratic burden on local governments and, in the long term, an assassination attempt on municipal autonomy. What is the purpose of the proposal? It is admitted that this is in the justification that it aims at recognising and preventing the start of municipal debt processes. Well, how is that possible? For years, the government budget has not been deficiting. The municipalities themselves can only borrow money in a narrow and only with government permission. Would the government have allowed this harmful process to go on like this? What are these indebted municipalities? Because the majority of the country's government governments are government governments, so the mayors of the Fidesz government still have an unquenchable desire to borrow. Would they be so irresponsible? Where did all this debt come from? 'Cause if we find this, if we find this, it's a lot easier to move. We're lucky, because the author himself solves this riddle. The Minister of the Interior, Sándor Pintér, is the State Audit Office of Hungary on 12 December 2014, Good Practices! Focus on the municipalities! In his opening speech, he said the following literally. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. With regard to municipalities, debt was subsequently shifted towards municipal-owned or partially municipal-owned companies, where debt of more than 1000 billion was accumulated. So it is not the municipalities that are indebted to them, but their companies are indebted to them. Not a little bit. The Minister of the Interior detects danger and wishes to make a move. He's making a bill, that's what we're discussing now. Well, that would be okay, I think, if that's what this proposal is about. But that is not what this proposal is about. This proposal is completely ineffective for this process. How can you control, through the ASP, the borrowing and spending of companies referred to by the Minister of the Interior, perhaps only partially owned by local governments? Obviously, they do not appear in the local government's computer system. This is even less true of most privately owned companies. They can't be forced into a foreign-owned IT system. So even the mark of the target is false. Then what is this proposal about? The bill seeks to conceal the direct intention of reducing the autonomy of the management of the municipalities by faking the aid of individual municipal tasks. The justification for the proposal is the re-production of debt and the prevention of corruption as an argument, creating a false appearance of the need to introduce a mandatory ASP IT system. We've just established that this is an untrue reference. The government is now trying to force its own undeveloped system on the municipalities, where IT applications, which have been better adapted to local needs, have been operating without problems for many years. In recent years, the government has had similar centralization steps, trying to subdue everything. It's worth looking at, because that's how we'll see what we can expect. KLIK is the model of the creation. It's the KLIK that the government's propaganda and brainwashing machine can't stop. But the introduction of a similar public IT system over the past period is also a series of costly failures. It is enough to mention the ÉDR for construction, the electoral IT system or the electronic registry system. The latter is referred to as a computer registry system, the very characteristic abbreviation of which I do not say out of respect for the House, but it is true for the system. Or more recently, due to the KIRA system, which is the same name as the cartoon character writing death lists, the masses of civil servants and civil servants did not get their dues in time, and even when they received it, many people received a bad sum due to serious errors in the system. These systems have hit at least one area, but with the ASP system they would be able to disable all customer flows of all municipalities. If the government network freezes as usual, what does the local administrator say to the client: "Wait, because the Ministry is in surveillance mode right now?" The law doesn't tell us what areas the system wants to occupy. He wants to leave it to the mysterious government decree that regulates everything. Will this include, for example, financial accounting, inventory with all office assets, electronic vouchering, registration, support for mailing, enveloping, electronic customer traffic, booking of appointments, system of announcements of general interest optimized for mobile phones? The social area, with the individual categories of need? With the local map integration of spatial information services in the cadastral region, a protected database of local taxes in particular concerning sensitive personality rights, or a similarly sensitive local social register? - to list only a few. Who's uploading the data again? Because, as it is said, the expensive government system is unable to exchange data or to cooperate with other systems. Will there be a field and livestock register in the inner districts of Budapest? While multifaceted, complex spatial information systems will not help the metropolitan city leadership. If data loss occurs, which in the current government system is admitted to be regular, then valuable data from municipalities accumulated over decades in the black hole of a remote system will be lost. Technical pitfalls that are obvious to non-professionals could be classified without end. After all, what does the government ask for from two thirds of the legislators? First of all, municipalities should not develop an IT system that meets their local needs and populations. Their existing private-law contracts are terminated on command because they create a completely unknown system, with unmarked applications, unknown operation and operator, with a repository managed by a body not yet designated. All this in a place of law that requires a majority qualified by their own Fundamental Law and fundamentality clause. It's 143. § (1) amended, and then deleted from the polarity clause, by a simple majority of the Members present, while Article 31 (3) of the Fundamental Law clearly states that the rules on local governments are laid down by a fundamental law. Well, what does the government expect us to do? Are you asking full-blown permission to override the contents of a fundamental law for a mysterious government decree? I note that to this mysterious government decree, Article 7 of the Legislative Act. Paragraph 6 of this Article states that at the latest it should enter into force at the same time as the empowering provision of this law, so that we should see it together with the delegated law. You might want to know exactly what we're giving you qualified authority for. Do you know what your own government is up to? The government mandate granted by the proposal is an uncontrolled opportunity to eliminate the remaining autonomy of farming, to empty self-government, and to create appearance self-government. This conspiracy to empty the rights of local governments, constitutional provisions, even its own rules of fundamentality, and even the will of most of their governments, cannot be voted by a Member who wants to look into the eyes of his own local communities again. [[12.50]] The President of TÖOSZ, Jenő Schmidt, is pro-government, but as mayor loyal to his electorate, he came out against this draft at his convention a week ago, then in the media, and they even filed a complaint against the mysterious strategists. I would ask my fellow pro-government Members to follow his example and say no to the assassination planned against the local government. This is unacceptable for a legal creation democrat seeking to conceal real government intentions. Thank you, Mr. President.
u2016-04-27-52	Thank you very much. Congressman György Rubovszky, lead speaker of the KDNP. Here you go.
u2016-04-27-53	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Dear House, I do not want to waste time describing the bill in detail, because this was partly done by the expo and partly by the lead speaker of Fidesz. I would like to respond to one or two of the things that have been said here. It is a very important remark, as Mr Répássy has already said, that the MSZP did not attend the five-party meeting that took place yesterday. If he had participated, he could have learned from Mr Sándor Pintér, Minister of the Interior, that this whole system was not invented by the Ministry of the Interior, but was created on a voluntary basis by a number of municipalities with EU support. A further 40 municipalities joined the founding 50 municipalities; today the practice of this system is reserved by more than a hundred Hungarian municipalities. Dear Parliament, What this legislation is really about is a very important question. This legislation is about the possibility for all municipalities to join in the same way as a very well-designed system for centralisation, in which case the municipalities could do their work together and be able to comply precisely with it, and it would be easier to communicate. No new data are requested by the Ministry of Interior in addition to the data required to report so far, but only a consolidated notification. The President of the Treasury said yesterday that, due to a lack of preparation, the current data collected in an unknown manner, which local authorities have made or made with their own development, will be regularly delayed, and the municipalities will pay an unlimited amount of fines for failing to comply with their obligation to provide information today due to unpreparedness. In practice, in order to establish this single system, I stress that the initiativers were the municipalities, and this was partly based on voluntary and partly joint preparation. I mean, volunteering is being introduced at around a hundred local governments that later join the initiative. There are a lot of initial problems in this system, and the main reason for that is that Hungarians are still a little alienated from electronic communications and correspondence. I would like to remind this House, which I said yesterday, that years ago, the court of commerce was still working on paper. At that time, on half betting days, you couldn't go to Nádor Street without seeing 400-500-metre lines in front of the corporate court, waiting for them to file their papers that day. Since this electronic administration has been introduced - and I add that the next agenda before this House concerns the introduction of civil procedure - this IT thing is a process and the common goal is clear: it must be implemented in all circumstances, because it is the future. Dear Parliament, I would like to say that the Christian Democratic Group fully agrees with the aim of this bill, the implementation of this bill. I would add that at yesterday's meeting, the opposition parties present had questions, which I consider to have been answered immediately by the Ministry or the Minister on the spot. I don't think there's any specific objection to the bill, but we'll see about that. With all due respect, I would like to announce that the Christian Democrats will support the bill. Thank you so much for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-04-27-54	Thank you. Congressman Csaba Gyüre, lead speaker of Jobbik, is the next speaker. Here you go.
u2016-04-27-55	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Fellow Members! Then I would like to start by saying that I would also respond to the words of my fellow Member, György Rubovszky, because it clearly seemed as if the municipalities were fully voluntary, and they would very much like to implement this system, and they would like to join this system, because Mr Rubovszky said that it was created by a voluntary association of 55 municipalities, to which 44 people joined, and then some, now, there are about 106 municipalities in this system. Well, the municipalities are not so happy about this that they all want to volunteer to be associated with this, because, given the close financial control they are subject to, which will create continuous and everyday control, it is not certain that a municipality would want to do exactly that. Obviously, our job is to make some kind of decision about this, but I think it's not a voluntary thing to enter it. Having examined this legislation, there have been repeated problems with whether it will be considered a two-thirds law or not. We have clearly seen the position of Fidesz and KDNP, who have said on this point that they believe that this is not a fundamental law, and it is not necessary to do so with the two thirds of the ordinary half law. On our part, we have a different legal position on this matter than the association of municipalities has taken a completely different position on this matter. We do not think that it matters that the legislator, who has submitted the bill, to which paragraph he intends to insert this content, which paragraph he will amend - if it is not fundamental, then he has a given position - but what it is actually about on the basis of content. In our view, there are clearly two thirds of the law on the basis of content, and that, if necessary, we will amend the polarity clause by 50 percent, not by us, but by the majority of the government, it will not in itself eliminate the disadvantage that falls on the two-thirds of the polarity in this case. Obviously, we will not be the ones to put an end to this debate, but obviously the majority will decide that, and then, at the end of the day, the Constitutional Court will take a stand in this, and on this basis, we will find out who is right, whether or not it is fundamental. So I don't think it's gonna be decided here. The goals. In themselves, the objectives that are formulated in this draft law, in the bill, in the amendment proposal can also be positive. Obviously, when we had a big debate here in Parliament on how to prevent the debt of local governments, Jobbik Hungary's Movement also expressed its position that we must obviously prevent by all means a similar level of debt, which has taken place in Hungary over the past 15 years, from happening. In this regard, Parliament has made the laws which, we hope, have resolved this matter in a reassuring manner, although it has indeed come up, and in the five-party conciliation yesterday, which has succeeded in being four-party, these arguments have been made: indeed, the municipalities are trying to play this out by paying off their local government companies, they will take out loans, and there will be loans that are not centrally visible. Obviously, the objectives of continuing to prevent the municipalities from being indebted can be fully and fully agreed, so in itself, preventing local government indebtedness is indeed a good goal. [[13.00]] Checking the municipal use of cash is again something that is natural that there is a need to control the use of public funds. We have found that it was the Fidesz-KDNP who constantly sought to limit the control of the use of public funds in its legislative proposals to citizens and even to the opposition parties. So we certainly agree with that if we have greater insight into the control of public funds, the way they are used. The following objective is to verify the financing of tasks, where it is quite clear that if the State finances a municipal task, it also has the right to control and, in the same way, the control of the liquidity situation is an important issue. So in itself these goals are good goals, the goals are well defined, they can be agreed with. The next step is to increase the possibility of electronicisation, the possibility of electronic administration. As we have heard, this ASP system can also be based on a system that allows the possibility of electronic administration in local authorities, even in smaller municipalities. We think that this is once again a very positive step and a positive thing, because the transition to electronic administration is obviously very important at all levels, because the administration is becoming much faster, it is done with much more modern, much less paper, it is much easier to process and start these cases. Home affairs can also be handled, and now, where appropriate, they can also be done electronically by local and small municipalities. So all of this is huge. I think the significance of this is somewhere as big as when they invented the printing of books, and while the codex was copied by the monks, they printed a book in seconds ten years later. So there was a huge technological development at the time, and since then, there hasn't been as much technical progress as we're going through right now. This type of electronic administration will certainly trigger a revolution in administration and we are pleased that the potential will continue to increase at the level of local authorities and small municipalities. So far, the beauty of the law. However, there have been quite a number of criticisms about this, and criticisms about the ASP system are already ongoing, which cannot be swept off the table. We need to talk about these, too. We need this. It was one of the most fundamental criticisms, which I am not sure is true, and at the beginning it will certainly not be true if this system is actually implemented, and the downsizing is that the introduction of this system will even show the possibility of depopulation in the medium term. In this regard, I think that the situation is real, because at the five-party meeting, Minister of Interior Sándor Pintér also spoke about the fact that in the local government civil servants sector there is a reduction in the number of employees or, where appropriate, a reduction in the number of civil servants in the European Union, and he referred to the fact that the number of civil servants in Hungary is much higher than the EU average, and even beyond the twenty, if we build such a system, whichever is the place, then we have one of the highest civil servants in Hungary compared to the population. Therefore, it may also result in the introduction of this system which will bring about a downsizing. A next criticism is that any data will be obtained directly without the municipality's knowledge. This is not entirely true, because he will upload that system, they will know all your data, it is an advantage on one side, and on the other side it can be a disadvantage. Obviously, it is not good to hide crimes, so when it comes to that, it may not always be critical. However, the municipalities are not happy that a very, very close control of their financial system will be under control. This may not be beneficial for the municipalities. Then some also see the possibility that the municipalities will be further deprived of their administrative responsibilities in the future, so that the municipalities will be further evacuated. Then, according to some calculations, the introduction of ASP in small settlements could triple the IT costs. This is profitable over a certain number of inhabitants, but it is not certain in small settlements; therefore, there are also calculations that allow these costs to increase by three times. Another point is that this central IT service will once again be an opportunity to give new billionaire mandates to people who are obviously close to the government. Well, we've seen things like that here in the last few years. Of course, before that, we just don't say it doesn't make it right, because they've done it before. And we can also see that, where appropriate, the introduction of this could also lead to the emptying of the municipal system. We see that Fidesz and Fidesz-KDNP - do not miss it! Since 2010, it has been continuously evacuating the system of local government. In the absence of virtually total competence, local governments will be slowly established as decorations in Hungary. The previous speaker also spoke about the possibility of a system similar to the KLIK. This is once again centralization, which describes its governance as Fidesz-KDNP. Part of this is the introduction of this ASP system. Well, I'm not sure we can agree with that either. Yes, actual decisions can also be centralised in the future as a result. We feel that it is just a step to allow the state to make payment to the municipality in the future, if this system continues and the capacity of the municipalities to assert their interests is further weakened. There may also be problems with education, as we see that if this is introduced, about 9,000 people in Hungary will have to apply it overnight. Obviously, this system must then be learned by these individuals. At the five-party meeting, it was said that distance learning could be discussed, which is the first way to train 9,000 people. I think it is not certain that distance learning will be effective in this case; and we have also heard that when civil servants were tried not by distance education but by courses to learn about this system, they were glad that it was a 40 percent appearance. So the civil servants do not take part in these, so it is doubtful that they will be able to learn the opportunities that lie in it within a reasonable time. They mentioned that there was a shortage of professionals in the five-party consultation that it would be difficult for local authorities, especially small settlements, to provide professionals who will be able to get to know this ASP system at user level and will be able to use it. And it has also been suggested that the problem with local authorities is that those who have expertise in this area are seduced by the competition sphere for better pay, and they cannot stay here, and it will be a big problem, too, that if this is introduced at systemic level, will they know in an appropriate way whether there will be professionals who will be able to manage these systems, these programs that will work here. Then the question of introduction, which is very closely linked to what has just been said. When can this be introduced? Mr Sándor Pintér, Minister of the Interior, when I asked him about this, he said - we know that it will be a separate regulation that will regulate the details - that the date on 1 January 2017 will be the date when this system will operate at national level. However, there are other problems that cannot be introduced from 1 January 2017. It is that there are also external procurements that need to be run through public procurement and in other ways, which have the right time. On the basis of this, the date that might be considered here is 1 January 2018. [[13.10]] I think this time seems a little close to making this work at the national level. On the basis of the problems and criticisms I have just formulated, it is not certain that it is realistic that this should work at national level, that there should be the right team of professionals, and that it should stand there trained. So there could be problems here, too. Fear that appears and perhaps has not been mentioned, and the fact that in itself this is a very short piece of legislation, which defines only the frameworks, only partially defines them and will be subject to an implementing regulation. And the implementing regulation that we now authorize the government to do in this law, the content of which we do not know, we do not know, we do not know, will be born in the future; Parliament is obviously unable to intervene in a government decree, and there may be clauses in which we will not be able to agree to the farthest possible extent, and we would like to express these fears in any way. When the opposition says that it has fears about this law, that part of it is obviously being expressed. My time is up, so I'll continue in a separate speech. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2016-04-27-56	Thank you very much. Congressman István Ikotity, lead speaker of the LMP. Here.
u2016-04-27-57	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear House, At the beginning of this year, a study on the standardisation and full government control of the local government's IT system appeared to be a government background. This background has knocked out the security in the municipalities, as it essentially projected the elimination of the remaining autonomy of the local government, the significant dismissal of locally employed officials and expressed it as a desirable goal. At that time, government circles denied that the published material had been prepared for their order, but the proposal now being submitted represents the first step in the implementation of the path outlined in the study. At the beginning of the year, LMP assessed this draft as an attack on the local government. We saw it then, and we see it now, that your content and the proposal that we have just tabled fit perfectly into the picture that we have seen in recent years, based on the practice of the Fidesz government that has de-governmentised autonomy. Let us look at the proportion of the balance sheet changes over the last two and a half decades to the detriment of the municipalities and to the benefit of the central government, even as regards the provision of wealth managed by themselves. The objectives of the proposal communicated by the government would be partially eligible, since a unified, integrated system of administrative and corporate governance between offices at local level would help to ensure transparency, efficiency and traceability of the performance of the office staff, and would also contribute to the elimination of parallel and therefore wasteful systems, which, according to the LMP, is also necessary. However, as we can get used to this, there is not much government proposal that would hide behind these eligible targets, and that would not also achieve government intentions that should be rejected in the strongest possible terms, in this case the totalisation of government centralization and the final evacuation of the local government. As a reason for further centralization, the government raises an argument to prevent the debt of local governments, as if today any local government could borrow more seriously in Hungary without government authorisation. Many of the settlements complain that even the minimum room for manoeuvre has been taken away from them. In order to submit a proposal, it may be necessary to make serious budget transfers and postpone planned developments, because the loan cannot be taken up by the municipality. There is therefore no real content behind the horse-zungs to be sold to the people, but only the power hunger of the central government that wants to control and control everything. It seems that the Fidesz government is, for some reason, particularly attracted to the mammoth systems directed from the centre, and is terrified that any other level of power other than him should have actual power, i.e. independent of it. Despite the gross failure of the over-centralized CLIK in education, the desire for power, the desire to control everything override the basic standards of rational management. Turning to the specific content of the proposal, let us see how you imagine the implementation of the government's plan. The essence of the plan is that the introduction of a uniform IT background for municipal data and administration - the ASP system - creates the conditions for all municipal and local administrative decisions to be controlled by the central administration. In the emerging system, the local public authority becomes vulnerable, because it has to degrade its no-needed background, so it virtually ceases to have its own professional background. The vulnerability is further increased by the loss of the right to dispose of the central software, including its own data provided. All of this follows the dismissal of 5 to 10 thousand civil servants. Once again, the idea is likely to affect the smallest settlements most at a disadvantage, in which the possibility of local administration would virtually be completely eliminated, and obviously these small-scale jobs would also be lost. The Possibly Other Politics considers the proposal to be another attack on Hungary in the countryside and cannot support it. We stand up for the most likely victims of the reform, small settlements, and we take action against job removal. However, we indicate that LMP could support the unification of the administrative IT background, but only by maintaining control over them and the position of the customer, excluding further centralisation and the reduction of municipal rights and the reduction of local administration. Thank you for your attention. [[Dr. Csaba Gyüre applauds.]]
u2016-04-27-58	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. There's no independent congressman in the room. No one came forward for a two-minute speech, so there will be further speeches by their representatives. Mr Sándor Szabó, representative of the MSZP, may be the first to speak. Here you go.
u2016-04-27-59	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, If I wanted to be ironic, I'd start by saving the Fidesz government from any good. Anyone who works in the local government world, whether mayors or local government workers or local government advocacy associations, since 2010 - several of my fellow Members have already said - we can see that there is a kind of direction to reduce the autonomy of the local governments and to eliminate the autonomy of the local governments when the affairs of local governments are brought into Parliament. I think that everyone who works in the local government at least has a stomach cramp, because we have been experiencing this since 2010. The Fundamental Law has already broken the principle that the right to self-government is a fundamental right. Here, in fact, the Fundamental Law defined that only within the framework of the law can local authorities exercise their rights, and this was already a broad limitation of the rights of local authorities. At the same time, the Fundamental Law stated that local public affairs could be classified as national public affairs. Then came the big reform of the municipal law in 2012, when we found that the state had taken away a lot of tasks from the municipalities. Of course, it also carried the resources of the municipalities, so much so that it took away significantly more resources from the municipalities than the State had already taken over. There has already been more talk about the reduction of local governments, for example, if we think about taking away the maintenance of schools from local authorities. There's a big center, KLIK, that it'll be cheaper, it'll be better, it'll be more efficient for the municipalities. It has been proven that it is neither cheaper, nor better, nor more efficient, and even significantly restricts the cooperation of local communities. Then, later today, the local joint municipal offices were established in the course of a new amendment to Parliament. [[13.20]] There are a number of problems with the operation of the municipal joint offices. There's a drastic procedure here, too. In the past, if these municipal offices were not established, then the government office could legally designate these settlements and establish agreements. Last year we saw how effectively governments were again protected by the government when, in fact, as of 1 March, the cash social benefits were abolished at the same time and gave the municipalities the huge opportunity to create municipal subsidies. As long as there is a kind of centralisation in the field of education and health, the government has left the municipalities entirely to themselves, a kind of decentralisation process has started to solve this task which they do not have to do, i.e. support the difficult, disadvantaged people. We see what is happening now in the field of waste management. There has been a coordination centre for a month, where municipal waste companies can no longer collect fees from the population. This centre will have the right to collect fees and to make up for municipal waste management associations in some way. But on the basis of what principle, how, it is not possible to know, since this will be regulated by a ministerial decree, only this ministerial decree has not yet been published, although it should have been in place for a month. So this is how the Fidesz government protects the municipalities. Turning to the proposal itself: it is indeed a question of joining the IT system to support the task of municipalities. This system in itself wouldn't be bad, that's what Congressman Gyure was talking about. As such, the ASP system itself should not be such a problem, but rather the problem is that it is made compulsory for municipalities. Why should this be mandatory for municipalities? If this is to be made mandatory, then, of course, the question arises as to why they want to make it mandatory. Yes, I think that is what Congressman Ikotity was talking about, and we also see that a 12-page study was actually published in February 2016. I have brought it here,, with an efficient local administration - strategic analysis, this title, which neither the Ministry of the Interior nor the Minister of the Prime Minister's Office has assumed in his name, because the thesises and items that reduce the autonomy of the local government are formulated in it. And indeed, for this strategic analysis, which is not published, point 2.2 says that the central ASP ensures that the municipalities operate under close control. The ASP is made on the basis of the government's needs and order, fully under the authority of the government, so that data of any depth can be obtained directly from it without the consent and approval of the municipalities. The material is long enough, obviously I do not wish to detail and read it. It is important, by all means, to deny the obvious possibility that the centrally operated database provides the possibility for direct control and, at the time of the conclusion of the ASP contracts, mayors should not be aware of the next phase of the introduction, i.e. the purpose of the outsourcing of the office.. In fact, then everything will have to be centrally handled and everything will have to be centrally supervised. Two things that apply to the fundamentals and the conciliations. We do not agree with what Mr Répássy said, which is that it happens to be a technical amendment, and it does not really have to be a fundamental law. We see this proposal as the basic idea that the Mötv. all its provisions authorising regulation are fundamental and completely disrupted. It says that it is justified that the rules relating to the ASP do not affect such provisions. We don't think so. There must be some kind of register of property belonging to the municipality, indeed, it is not essential, Mr Congressman, but the mandate given to the creation of a government decree on this subject already does. In itself, it is exceptional if a rule of government regulation appears in respect of local governments, because local authorities can only make a decree on the basis of the authority of the law, according to the Fundamental Law. We therefore believe that the powers of delegation must indeed be fundamental. It is not acceptable to understand what you think that this can be achieved by a simple majority. We think it's a legal barn twist. This is obviously necessary for political reasons, because of the above-mentioned strategic analysis and publication, which is unlikely to receive two-thirds support in Parliament. Mr Rubovszky, why the MSZP was not present at this meeting: it was not there, Mr Congressman, at this meeting, because, as I said, in any case, when we have to argue in Parliament about the municipal law, with each step, we see that the law of the municipalities is constantly falling, and we do not want to assist. That's one of my things. On the other hand, the Fidesz faction has already held two consultations on mayors' salaries. I was there, the Secretary of State was there. Did that make any sense? Here in Parliament, they said how much they would support the mayor's salary to be provided by the central budget. My fellow Member from Vitány has also proposed this. The next day, we went to talk to Mr Balla, and there we had a very confused agreement that we could support this. Then comes the bill-making committee's amendment proposal that, of course, there can be a raise for the mayors, but everyone should do it on the spot as best you can. Because, by the way, settlements have so much money that they can make it happen. As long as you like to think about all sorts of negotiations, I think there's no place for MSZ. Thank you very much.
u2016-04-27-60	Thank you very much. Congressman Gábor Staudt is the next representative of Jobbik.
u2016-04-27-61	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, Csaba Gyüre said a lot of important points in his speech, and in the crossfire of the proposal, the government's ability to control and control the authority of the municipalities came back. However, I would like to bring a new aspect here, honourable House. I would also like to look at Mr Répássy, Secretary of State, with one eye, as he said in his speech by the lead speaker that these data, which are included in this central repository, are mainly or entirely public data, are public data of the municipalities which should be made available in writing if they are requested by local voters or by the state. That was the reference. If that is the case, and I think it is largely so, so I do not want to argue with this statement, then this gives me the opportunity to have the old desire that we have put forward a proposal before, and we are bringing it in to this law as an amending proposal that the state collects these data. Because no matter what the opposition says, this law will probably pass, and these data will be collected centrally. If these data are already collected centrally and are largely public data, then let's make this publicly available to all citizens, even on the Internet. Let's do it, because if everyone gets to know it, and they're already subject to the info law as public data, then everyone in this system can reach it. It can't be said that this would be an extra cost, because it needs to be scanned, uploaded, this database is created and available. One thing needs to be done to the government, where appropriate, and an amendment proposal will be tabled to create a separate internet interface and this interface will be filled with this information, contracts and data. Of course, certain personal data may need to be removed from it, which may not be public data in the public interest. [[13.30]] Basically, with a small amount of effort, a database can be created where voters, journalists, opposition representatives, anyone can access this data. So this is a very good opportunity for us to do this, and I have to say that if the government will also bring this in, support our amendment, then I will risk it, and we can think about it, so that we can support this proposal. It's public information anyway, why can't we do it? I would add that the proposal that we had submitted earlier as a proposal for a resolution to the Parliament and about a similar central database, the Parliament would have asked the Government in a proposal for a resolution to draw up and bring back to Parliament the detailed elements of this proposal, which would have included, as we proposed in the resolution, the need for publication of municipal contracts, municipal contracts containing municipal public information that anyone could request if appropriate. The other half is that it is not enough, where appropriate, to expect them to be posted on the Internet. If this were a requirement for validity, so that legal effects would not come from a contract that is not found on the Internet on a particular interface, let us say, on a central interface maintained by the government - perhaps this would be the best way to do this centrally - then these contracts would not be able to produce quasi-binding effects. This would be the best solution, but let us not be so..., in this proposal, I must say that my opposition heart would be satisfied at first if these data became public. And think about it: otherwise, if this were to happen, then any discussion or data request costing disputes could in the future be set in parentheses as to how many employees' wages, the cost of scanning, the DVD on which it is published. May I remind you that the Hungarian Post is trying to ask our fellow Member, Bertalan Tóth, for nearly HUF 70 million for the publication of the public data, which is hard to judge, which in itself shows that when these provisions were adopted - because we did not support it on the opposition side - I am referring to the provisions in which not only the direct costs of public data can be eliminated, but practically anything, leaving it open, from the employee's wages, to the cost of heating and other utility costs of the room where they are selected, this can all be eliminated, and the court decides that this is right or wrong. But you have passed this law, you have said that there will certainly not be such outstanding examples, once again the opposition is the one who paints the devil on the wall here. Well, he did, and this 70 million HUF was calculated as the salary of a senior employee who pulls the personal data out of the document they intend to hand over. I do not want to go deeper into this, but you can see that by amending a small paragraph in this law a transparent system could be implemented in Hungary, which, I must say, is not unique in Europe - because forgive me, but for all 27 Member States and 26 Member States outside Hungary, I cannot tell you now that there is no more effective system in any case, but the point is, I must say - but we would be at the forefront of Europe in transparency and transparency. I think that, if we look at international surveys, whether about the corruption situation or about the corruption risks, because it is a cliché that it should not only be fair, it should also be seen to be not only fair, it should be free from corruption, but also that it should be seen to be the case of these cases - unfortunately none of them have yet been implemented here - but I think that this would also benefit you in the international statements, which would include corruption threats, a percentage chance of corruption if a fully transparent system were to be created. This would be a very good reference basis for several and other EU countries, not to mention that this system would be best if other public sector purchases were included in this database, and if, in addition to municipalities, the spending of ministries, other public bodies, institutions and public finances could be included in this central system, then I believe that a word could not be said for Hungary in terms of transparency. So I would consider that, if I were you, and this is an opportunity for us to clear the air, which you can do with the support of this amendment. Róbert Répássy also said the legal arguments, as we are talking about public data, the database is created, the money will be spent on it, it will be a central database, so you can do a good thing with one step. I have to say, go ahead and take a big step, think big, and implement a fully transparent country first in the municipalities and then in the other public bodies. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2016-04-27-62	Thank you very much. Mr Répássy Róbert, representative of Fidesz, is the next speaker. Here.
u2016-04-27-63	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, At the beginning of the debate, I tried to advance or prevent opinions that I think are based on a mistake, so they are based on the fact that my fellow Members are not aware of the law, the municipal law in force 114. I will read this, if you don't mind, and then we will discuss whether this bill violates the rights of local governments. I can't recall it, but how can I say it? - there have been many visual speeches on how the majority of governments want to keep poor municipalities on a short leash again with this proposal. Please listen to what the 114th is saying now. §, which is the text of the local government law in force:. The local government operates an IT system, which can be linked to the State IT system, which also serves as a means of continuous financial State control, ensuring that financial, administrative, administrative and other basic tasks are carried out and transparent in accordance with uniform rules. The scope of data to be recorded in the system is defined by law. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. This is literally the same as the 114th bill proposed before us. § (1). So there is no new control or request for new data; there is no new rule for municipalities. What this bill is about is that the Parliament, if it adopts this law, will designate a nationally uniform IT system to which the municipalities must join and record the data. But once again, the obligation to publish data, to register data for the purpose of state financial control and to link it with the State IT system is already part of the rules in force, and I do not understand this criticism at all. Obviously, I can't help but think that those who threw this in the eyes of the government don't know what 114 is. The current text of §8. In conclusion, yes, I partly maintain my claim that most of these data are data of public interest. I cannot judge at this moment whether all data is of public interest, because the rule in force is that the scope of data to be recorded in the system is determined by law. I'm sure it's my ignorance, but I haven't met this legislation, so probably not yet or at least part of it can be regulated by law. Obviously, from now on, the innovation of this system would be that a government regulation will specify exactly what data should be published, obviously they will be uniform with all municipalities and will be up-to-date. So this is very important that you will be able to keep up-to-date financial control, that you will be able to facilitate monitoring in your process. But once again, I stress that this is not a new rule, it is part of the law in force, it has not worked effectively enough so far, and it has not been so, how shall I put it, clear to the municipalities concerned what data should be published. By the way, what Congressman Staudt has suggested is that, of course, other public bodies should do the same, I assume that there is one, I am not fully competent, but the Treasury obviously has IT systems in which certain data are available for public bodies to whom the Treasury is paying, where the Treasury can monitor the movement of these funds. [[13.40]] I'm sorry, I'm sorry, but I'm sorry. So there is no new control or request for new data; there is no new rule for municipalities. What this bill is about is that the Parliament, if it adopts this law, will designate a nationally uniform IT system to which the municipalities must join and record the data. But once again, the obligation to publish data, to register data for the purpose of state financial control and to link it with the State IT system is already part of the rules in force, and I do not understand this criticism at all. Obviously, I can't help but think that those who threw this in the eyes of the government don't know what 114 is. The current text of §8. In conclusion, yes, I partly maintain my claim that most of these data are data of public interest. I cannot judge at this moment whether all data is of public interest, because the rule in force is that the scope of data to be recorded in the system is determined by law. I'm sure it's my ignorance, but I haven't met this legislation, so probably not yet or at least part of it can be regulated by law. Obviously, from now on, the innovation of this system would be that a government regulation will specify exactly what data should be published, obviously they will be uniform with all municipalities and will be up-to-date. So this is very important that you will be able to keep up-to-date financial control, that you will be able to facilitate monitoring in your process. But once again, I stress that this is not a new rule, it is part of the law in force, it has not worked effectively enough so far, and it has not been so, how shall I put it, clear to the municipalities concerned what data should be published. By the way, what Congressman Staudt has suggested is that, of course, other public bodies should do the same, I assume that there is one, I am not fully competent, but the Treasury obviously has IT systems in which certain data are available for public bodies to whom the Treasury is paying, where the Treasury can monitor the movement of these funds.(13.40) Otherwise, we are open to it, so I think there is no problem. This is likely to be a question of IT development, to publish the financial data, at least in a uniform system, of the use of which the Treasury supports or refers money. I stress that this is not yet a category of data of public interest. Our law on data in the public interest, our Freedom of Information Act, otherwise defines certain specific disclosure obligations. If you look at a government website and the Ministry's website, there are such data, but any public body has special disclosure obligations. Again, they are not complete, but only the types of data laid down in individual legislation. Summa summarum, the criticism that this would undermine the rights of the local government, or that now the moment has come to an end, because it will be a short leash from now on, it is a complete mistake, a mistake due to the lack of knowledge of the existing municipal law. Thank you very much for the floor. [[Applause from the Fidesz ranks.]]
u2016-04-27-64	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, There are two-minute speeches coming up. First of all, Congressman Dezső Believing, MSZP.
u2016-04-27-65	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I would like to touch on four questions, and I have two minutes in total, so I would like to get to it quickly. One of what my fellow Member Répássy said about reporting is what the municipal law lays down. Yes, this requires the municipalities to operate such a system. I would like to inform Congressman that all 3,200 municipalities have been operating such a system, and it has been operating for decades, period. There is no obligation in this regard to use a mandatory system, I have not read it in this law, but now I would like to regulate it in this way. The other issue that my fellow Member, Rubovszky, is concerned with EU support. It sounded from his mouth as if this had started as if the Union would say here that we had to make such a system. I know the other way around, but maybe I misunderstood, so I apologize. A lot of money has been put into this system from the Union. Obviously, the Union will have to report on how this has been used. They won't know because the dog doesn't care about this system, that's the problem with it. The other question is that one hundred out of 3,200 municipalities have even talked about it. This is a ratio that would be difficult to justify that this should be done on a compulsory basis and it would be worth listening to the municipalities. They're hearing their voices, they just don't want to hear it. I do not know of a local government alliance that would support this idea, but I do know of local government associations that are against it - practically all of them. That's what I think you should think about. The other is that there is no point in participating in multi-party negotiations that are not intended to be negotiated, but rather to create a kind of propaganda, and that is why we did not participate. The time when it was, that's what it meant. Thank you very much.
u2016-04-27-66	Congressman Gábor Staudt, Jobbik, in two minutes.
u2016-04-27-67	Thank you very much, Mr. President. In the first instance, I would also very much welcome the publication of mandatory and central public data for municipalities. I would like to say to Mr Secretary of State Répássy that in the first round - and we are talking about this law - it would be very good if our amendment were to pass. You can join him, by the way. I must say that we are pleased to have you join this proposal and give you the emphasis that, yes, there are such voices on the steering side. [[In the notary seat István Ikotity will be replaced by Dezső Believing.]] The next question is, it is true that state bodies, Treasury, ministries, but if there is already an example and there is a central database and there is a well-functioning system, then you can think about how it can be expanded. They say if you can't tell anyone, tell everyone. In this case, too, I feel that the concerns or problems on the part of the local authorities, how and in what way they should be made available to the State in a central system, would be easily resolved if the state said that you are not only giving this to us, you are sending it not only to us, but also to everyone, if we are talking about public data. Of course, there may be financial data, and I recognise this, which are not public data, which must be treated separately, but I also believe that data, contracts and information about farming are public data, and this can also be disclosed in a central system. So I stress that the system will now be completed. That is why we have tabled an amendment with my fellow Member, Mr Csaba Gyüre, to give the Government the opportunity in a regulation to push this step forward and to create a truly functioning, effective system. I ask Répássy Róbert to contribute to the pro-government majority so that this can be accepted. Thank you. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2016-04-27-68	Congressman György Rubovszky, KDNP, in two minutes.
u2016-04-27-69	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, I called him, so I'll answer. The fact is that I am interested in this issue, that the municipalities have formed a voluntary partnership with European money, not that the European Union has given money to do so, but that the initiative is on the side of the municipalities. There's one thing we should be aware of. We all fill out our tax returns on the same form. If we're gonna sell a car, we're gonna have to fill out a standard form. The simplest way to understand is that this bill is about the need for the existing communication of data to be carried out in such a styl bus, which is what this system has created. I also spoke to Mr Csaba Gyüre by saying yesterday that around 40 percent of organised educations appear. That's true, but it's just so organized that it's not about teaching a mandatory system, it's about volunteering for the Treasury. The Treasury organized these educations. Local governments that have already joined have been able to send people into this and sign up for aliens. Obviously, because the appointment is not agreed with them, there is a smaller presence if this is mandatory, but I stress that the law is purely formal. As Congressman Répássy has said precisely, precisely here, it is about communicating the correct data in a way, and the data content is also in accordance with the legislation in force today. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the Fidesz ranks.]]
u2016-04-27-70	Thank you very much. We now return to the normal speeches: Congressman Csaba Gyüre, Jobbik.
u2016-04-27-71	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, I did not have time to talk about certain things in the speaker's speech, and I would like to get to that in a few sentences. It was interesting when I studied this ASP system and read criticisms about it, then I also wondered why we didn't hear more about it, and perhaps we asked the five-party secretary of state yesterday to talk about what the local governments had in practice, the nearly one hundred or more municipalities that actually used it. What I read about him came out - and I quote literally what I read - is that he basically made our task more difficult. That's all I've read about it, so I'd be interested. Now, I took the liberty of calling these local governments who volunteered to do this. I tried to contact those who worked there to find out what they had in mind about this system. I would also like to say here what the practical experiences have been. Obviously, we need to be aware that this was a test facility, that this should be taken into account, and that it was a new thing for the workers, and that the workers have just learned how to do it. Obviously, I am saying this because the opinion on this is not very positive. [[13.50]] Little things and more serious things have come up. For example, programs run under different applications. If the tax is prescribed, it runs under a different application, if the birthright part is run under another application again. One runs under Explorer, the other runs under Firefox, but if you want to move from one to the other, one has to be shut down, you have to step out, you have to cross into the other app - it makes it more complicated. So why is it not unified, this has already been raised as a question, as a request. What is very interesting to me is one of these problems, that the paper needs have increased radically. We would think that switching to electronic registers in many respects would facilitate paperwork. No! Just the opposite, more paperwork was reported, more paperwork was needed, and more work was needed while filling out the paperwork. This has increased the workload of the workers in a proportionate way, a significant increase in the workload has been reported, which contradicts what I said in my keynote speakers that, if this is to work well, it may also result in a downsizing; it seems to contradict that. Obviously, these problems arise at the beginning. We hope that if this is actually introduced, this will not be a long-term one, so it will not make it significantly difficult for workers to work and will not significantly increase their workload. What they've been complaining about is that the programs are complicated. Why would they say that? It may arise that they are not professionals who do this. Yeah, but they've dealt with these programs before, but not with the central ASP program, but with which they've already applied. So the system itself is much more complex than these programmes, and the application of the programme itself is much more complicated; what has been matured and worked for them is much simpler, so what the municipalities have used so far has been much simpler. This requires a lot more clicks, so it is extended in time; much more clicks are needed, this also complicates it. What they were talking about as a problem was contacting the program operator. In the municipalities it was reported that the local government did not use the ASP program, but what the municipality had previously used, if any problems arose, could not move on with the employees, then what happened was that there was a telephone number, and there was the right professional who answered what was to be done. Well, it doesn't work that way at all, now they're e-mailing a message, writing down exactly what happened, and then someday they'll get a reply by e-mail about what to do. So the directness of this is virtually gone. This also makes their work a lot harder. So there's no way to make this phone call so far. I will say this in my speech, in case people who will implement this programme will also pay attention to it, if Parliament votes in favour, and then they will pay attention to it, so that there will be more directness. What has been reported is that program errors were common, so program errors were much more common than in the system they used to operate. There is one other very important thing that has been reported - and that has shocked me very much - and I think my fellow Member György Rubovszky has spoken on this subject. At yesterday's five-party meeting, József Dancsó, President of the Hungarian State Treasury, said that the introduction of this system is also very necessary because the municipalities regularly fail to make their financial statements by deadline, so in many cases they are forced to impose fines and how good it is, because this system will not allow them to run out of deadlines, which requires compliance with the deadlines. Employees have reported that they are unable to meet deadlines with this system, so the fine is hanging over their heads because they are simply unable to comply with these deadlines. If this system is applied, these deadlines cannot be complied with. So the practical realisation of the goal that we heard yesterday at the five-party meeting from József Dancsó MÁK-President seems to contradict exactly. I hope that this is just another problem that has been caused by this programme in its infancy, but I also think that this should be taken into account. That is why it would have been very good if we had received a detailed information before the debate, and it would have been best to have had practical experience at or before the five-party consultation on how this programme works for the hundred pilot municipalities. One more thing I've been reminded of. We have talked here several times - I have also spoken - about the acquisition of programmes, the system of education. I've been told by the employees that it's very difficult to learn this application that they need to know here. It's hard to learn, it's a very complicated system, and it's gonna make it very difficult for it to work. I have concluded from these that the sudden introduction of this in such a short period of time could also lead to the collapse of the system, where appropriate, a series of delays and, where appropriate, a series of fines, which will obviously have to be taken into account in the establishment of the implementing regulation, so that there is an appropriate transitional period for the municipalities, in which the programmes are already working perfectly, and the programmes will not make life difficult for the municipalities, but will really help. The experience so far in the test plant at the 100 municipalities, unfortunately, does not show this. It is no coincidence that local government associations also stand as one to oppose the implementation of this programme, since it seems that for the time being there will be more difficulties and problems than the benefits and benefits of this. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2016-04-27-72	Thank you very much. There are two-minute speeches coming up. Congressman Rubovszky, KDNP, please.
u2016-04-27-73	Thank you very much, Mr. President. With all due respect, I would just like to react very briefly to what Congressman Csaba Gyüre has just said here that it is difficult to learn. I'd like to remind you, we're colleagues, we've both been lawyers, I assume, both of us were deluded at the time when the court-martialed electronic administration was introduced, we've had trouble learning, the fourth to fifth announcement has gone smoothly, and since then this system has been going on. This is due to the seriousness of the subject and the lack of certain knowledge. The other thing I would like to mention is that today's Cavalcade, which means that to the Treasury, those given data are reported by everyone according to their own system, is an incredible job for the Treasury; we heard it from the Treasury President yesterday. But that's the minor problem, because it's the Treasury's problem. The bigger problem is that small municipalities are currently so unprepared, and their own system costs a lot of money, which they finance. This system would be free of charge, so the municipality could save money, and if they finally learned it, they would get away with what is now a practice, that they cannot meet their obligations to communicate their data by the deadline, and that is why the Treasury regularly fines them today. So I'm not saying it's a hip-hop drive, obviously you have to suffer for it, you have to learn, but the goal is to make sure that everyone gets to do it dead in the future. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-04-27-74	Persuasive Congressman Dezső is next in two minutes, MSZP.
u2016-04-27-75	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. I just want to get back to one thing. My fellow Member here has read it to us from Mötv., as I recall, the 114th. Article 114, which is all right, you just forgot to tell me that this is the case with Article 114. I would like to add three new paragraphs, and you forgot to say that Article 114 It is not the case that there is a compulsory public system, it is merely that the municipal system must be linked to the State. I'm telling you, it's been that way for 26 years. Thank you.
u2016-04-27-76	Congressman Csaba Gyure, Jobbik.
u2016-04-27-77	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. I would only respond very briefly to what György Rubovszky said. I told you in my speech as the lead speaker that the Jobbik Movement for Hungary alone can fully agree with the fact that the IT service section is expanding in the municipalities. So we agree with this part. In my previous speech, I formulated the criticisms of practical experience in order to see if these problems would be heard, if this system was introduced, and we could eliminate them as soon as possible. [[14.00]] What we see is that when we make criticisms of the opposition, and when it gets to the right ears, they often correct the problems that arise here. So I didn't put these criticisms in order to attack the law, the basic law, but to improve them. In my speech as the lead speaker, I have listed the problems that have arisen for us in relation to the law itself. These were more constructive criticisms, which made it necessary to vary the system. Thank you very much. [[It's a rare applause in the ranks of the Jobbik.]]
u2016-04-27-78	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, I'll see if anyone else wants to tell me. [[There's no candidate.]] I'm gonna say no. The general debate is therefore closed. I'll ask Mr. Secretary of State, the author, if he wishes to reflect. [[For signal:]] Here you go.
u2016-04-27-79	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, Some things, I think, are definitely worth reflecting on, answering. On the one hand, it appears that there will be no understanding or agreement between the opposition and the ruling parties that the extension of the ASP system, the possibility of this, will not give a new task to the municipalities. The division of tasks between the municipality and the State is not affected in any way, and the tasks of the municipality do not change. It is also important to state that I think that any data that can be accessed through the ASP system to the Hungarian Treasury must be transferred to the State Treasury at the moment, obviously there are different possibilities. If we only observe that the number of software used for farming is 22 at the moment, and in many cases there are problems that companies that transport these softwares are unable to comply with the right law, they cannot provide the right support, this is also a problem for municipalities, either when preparing reports. It does not affect the autonomy and freedom of the municipalities in any way. I would find it a very bad message if it were to be seen that a verifiable, visible, regulated information would be at the expense of the municipalities, or that the municipalities would be reluctant to do so, and that would be of any interest to them. It occurred to me that the state, the government, took a lot of money and couldn't account for it. I would like to draw attention to the fact that the ASP1 programme was completed, supported by the European Union, which was for the municipalities of the Central Hungary region. There, in the first round, 55 municipalities had the opportunity to join. When this programme was completed and the programme was coming to an end, the question arose after that, if there is such a programme, such a system, which has clear and tangible advantages, it does not need to be closed by the fact that 55 municipalities are cooperating with it. In other words, this will work nicely until the end of the monitoring cycle in line with EU rules, and then we will throw it away, but if such a system, which, once again, can be clearly useful in communicating between municipalities and the state, can be extended to all municipalities, then it is appropriate to do so. The current start-up rate could be the one that provides this whole extension. So it's not about the state or government taking a lot of money and not being able to account for it. We are about to improve the next phase, and obviously the necessary calls for proposals will have to be taken. This will also affect the deadline for implementation, as in order to obtain adequate hardware for the entire verticum, public procurement is obviously necessary, and this will also take time. I would say that the ideas raised by Congressman Staudt are very important. I see a lot of opportunities in this myself. It is not only from the side of the control of local governments and municipal farming that it is absolutely necessary to approach the possibility of this system, but it is indeed, I also think, much more complex. Beyond being able to reach the public and in what form, this really needs to be examined. That's an interesting question. But in addition to the establishment of such a system and a repository, in which there are data that can be analysed, organised and coordinated - and here it is no longer personalised, broken down, but, where appropriate, broken down by the sector of tasks carried out by the municipality - this could contribute to the conclusion of a number of debates that Parliament has been conducting for 25 years on the financing, division of tasks, efficiency, financing of small settlements, large settlements and disadvantaged areas. So we can see clearly on a number of issues that, by the way, can give a much clearer essence of the system of financing of tasks, both legislation, farming and state aid. Then, by the way, the government, the government at all times, is much easier to plan and agree with the local government sphere on what the generally accepted funding principles can be, which, when extracted from the data, typically appear throughout the country. So not only is monitoring compliance with budgetary rules, it is not only a question of publicity and transparency, but also, where appropriate, of strategic planning and the provision of local government tasks, even of territorial inequalities in financing tasks, can be helped by such a programme, such a framework, which may otherwise be known to everyone, since, as I said, this programme and system started in the Central Hungary region. In the framework that has taken place in the Central Hungary region, we would like to take five elements of the Framework Programme and extend it to all municipalities. I don't think there's a very big debate on that, but maybe everyone who worked in the municipal sphere remembers that 7-8 years ago it happened with the Treasury on the computer communication floppy by driving the floppy to the Treasury. So these anomalies, these untimely solutions, must be overcome. Steps have also been taken, and I believe that a significant step can be taken without prejudice to the autonomy of the municipalities. It is completely unfounded, and even from the law, but even from the examination of the five programme elements I have mentioned, it becomes apparent that the system would otherwise be unable to take over decision-making processes. This is not about anyone interfering in a decision-making process or countersignation. Here, simply on a web basis, data from the machine is entered into the government cloud, the single repository without the government touching it. I believe that this system can help make the management of municipalities more legal, more stable, safer, but, as I said, it can also help to produce, in addition to transparency, a series of analyses needed for long-term planning from these data. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[It's a rare round of applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-04-27-80	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, I would like to inform you that the amendment proposals can be submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. Dear Parliament, The year 1952 on the Civil Procedure III follows. Act CCXXII of 2015 on the general rules for electronic administration and trust services. General discussion of the bill amending the law until closure. The government referral is T/10308. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. I would like to give the floor once again to Secretary of State Tibor Pogácsás, Secretary of State of the Ministry of the Interior. Here. [[14.10]]
u2016-04-27-81	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, The legislative proposal under discussion essentially addresses two issues: the electronic procedural obligation of business organisations and legal representatives in civil proceedings and the temporary issues of changes to the regulation on electronic signatures. In order to ensure an adequate period of preparation, the Parliament postponed the electronic procedural obligation of economic entities and legal representatives until 1 July 2016 in 2015 in order to ensure an adequate period of preparation, since from 1 July 2016 economic entities and legal representatives can communicate with the court primarily electronically on the identification systems provided by the State. The experience and final clarifications during the six-month preparation period are reflected in this bill. In cooperation with the Hungarian Bar Association, the so-called pergate service has been developed, which has the following characteristics. The service was designed on the basis of a solution to the so-called government gate of the budgetary bodies, the contact point of the pergate is the customer gate user, who receives full control of the pergate, can change the name of the pergate, add up to four administrators and delete the pergate. The administrator is the one who can read and send mail to the Perkapuba if the contact person has assigned it to the perkapu. The per-gate trustee himself administers the change in the administration interface of the per-gate. The shipment must be downloaded from the pergate within 30 days of arrival, and after 30 days the shipment will be deleted. Deleted consignments shall be notified by the service provider at the pergate, which shall be deleted at the end of the sixth month following the date of arrival of the original consignment. The administrator of the per-gate or the per-gate agent shall be deemed to be authorised to take over. The pergate service is capable and capable of mapping the workflow of business organisations and law firms, thereby ensuring that, for example, the manager of the secretary of the law firm is not required to enter by using a customer gate identifier to upload documents. In addition, the proposal clarifies the provisions laid down last autumn, giving the parties the opportunity to submit electronic documents on a durable medium - flash drive, DVD, winchester instead of the specified size limit. Dear Parliament, The second half of the bill is about a transitional period. The 2015 CCXXII on the general rules for electronic administration and trust services will enter into force on 1 July 2016. Act No 910/2014 and EU Regulation No 910/2014, which deals with electronic signatures and, in its new name, trust services. Legal continuity exists only in the case of specific services under the regulation and the law. They do not have the necessary continuity in respect of all other services - the issuance of qualified or enhanced organisational certificates, the issue of an enhanced certificate for natural persons, the time stamp service, the archive service, and the rest, and they will lose their existing legal effects on 30 June 2016. The amendment proposal ensures that qualified or e-signatures services can continue to operate at national level until 31 December 2016, thereby guaranteeing that, despite any problems with the application of the law, appropriate electronic signature services can be continuously available in Hungary, both for civil proceedings and for other e-administrations. I call on this House to support the bill. Thank you, Mr. President. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-04-27-82	Dear Parliament, The main speakers will now be followed, first by the lead speaker of Fidesz, Mr Répássy Róbert. Here you go.
u2016-04-27-83	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, The person who has just followed Mr Secretary of State's opening speech is obviously aware that this bill does not introduce electronic litigation from 1 July 2016. This has already been ordered by the Parliament on the basis of a previous law, so the bill before us is not about whether there will be electronic litigation as of 1 July 2016, although it is undoubtedly true that a full, wide-ranging turn in proceedings will take place from 1 July onwards, which, after years of preparatory work, has been monitored and continuously prepared for this turn of events, both by Parliament and the relevant law enforcement authorities, courts and lawyers, and that the documents required in the proceedings will in some cases be required to be submitted by electronic means. Moreover, the bill shows that in some cases mandatory electronic forms or electronic blanks will have to be used. All of this, as I said, does not become mandatory from this law from 1 July, so I trust that this debate will not be about why we will move from 1 July to electronic administration. The bill does nothing other than clarify the comments which have been raised before it implements them and amends them before the live operation starts in electronic administration as of 1 July. So the purpose of the bill is specifically to make the electronic procedure that will definitely take place on 1 July for customers, for users, for public bodies, thus making it easier to use and, as they say, to make user-friendly in the language of IT. So I ask all those who believe that in the electronic procedure launched on 1 July, they want customers and public bodies, i.e. users, to exercise their rights as flexibly and as sharp as possible from the point of view of operation, to support the bill, because it supports customers, courts and lawyers, legal representatives, in order to be able to use the electronic procedure that will definitely take place on 1 July, and, as I said, in some cases, it is mandatory to use it. I myself said that the introduction of electronic procedures is not the subject of this law, but I think that we should reaffirm that the electronic procedure has many advantages. Although it undoubtedly requires some preparedness, but no more preparedness than any computer user's preparedness, or I have to say that a minimum of IT skills is required of course from the participants in the procedure, yet there are many advantages to the electronic procedure. First of all, it accelerates procedures, accelerates court proceedings. So when we think about how to make the electronic procedure more user-friendly, let us bear in mind that the aim is primarily to speed up the procedure. On the other hand, it clearly makes it reliable, as the instruments included in the bill, partly legal and partly IT tools, actually help to identify the users, the parties to the procedure, guarantee that only the documents from the rightholder can be received by the public authorities and are taken into account by the public authorities in this capacity. For example, the person submitting the application had the right to lodge the application. That is why it is necessary for our laws to prescribe how to create these security gates. I therefore think that, in addition to the many advantages of the electronic procedure, there is a need for time to prepare which has already been postponed with many deadlines. Undoubtedly, no matter how much time Parliament has left for those who have not dealt with this problem, and who have prepared for electronic procedures, Parliament has given them plenty of time to tune in to electronic procedures. It is undoubtedly true that these electronic services cannot be used very much without minimal preparation or, where appropriate, a little learning. [[14.20]] And since this is mandatory, the actors in the procedure are forced to learn how to handle these electronic surfaces. There can undoubtedly be a situation where the IT system itself or the IT part of the procedure itself is not perfect, but I think that if such a situation arises, then it is not necessarily necessary to amend the law, it is not necessary to run for legislation. This bill, which we have just tabled here, provides a sufficient framework to change the tool itself, the IT system through which this electronic communication takes place. So it is a great advantage of this bill that we do not need to change the law in case of any problems that have arisen in order to make the IT system still operational. Dear House, For my part, I don't want to waste any more time. Of course, stakeholders must be very excited about this date on 1 July 2016 because, as I said, from now on, this electronic procedure will begin in focus. Many procedures are already being carried out electronically. I have to say, there will only be another round, another set of personnel, another set of users in the electronic process. So it is not that for the first time someone should be confronted with the electronic procedure; in many procedural types, the electronic procedure is already in place. For example, the court-martial procedure, where, for example, electronic forms are already known to users. So it doesn't cause anything new to people who've encountered such IT systems. Of course, for those to whom this is a completely new obligation, it is worth learning, as I said, how these systems should be applied, in the time until 1 July. Dear House, I suggest and ask that you support the bill. Not for the sake of the government, but to support the amendments before us in order to ensure that electronic administration and electronic procedures are served as efficiently and as customer-friendly as possible. Thank you so much for listening. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-04-27-84	Thank you very much. Congressman Gergely Bárándy, head speaker of the MSZP, here we go.
u2016-04-27-85	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Congressman Répássy, as the lead speaker of Fidesz, asked us not to talk about the content of administration and e-administration, because that is not the law. I promise you, I won't do that, all the more so, because, by the way, we agree with the priority of electronic administration itself. I'd rather talk about how the government does that. I mean, it's not about why, it's about how I'm gonna be about, more specifically, how I'm not supposed to be. The draft bill was submitted for administrative consultation on the government website by 25 March. According to the ex-ante impact assessment papers published at the time, technical process developments in the introduction of mandatory electronic contacts in the Civil Procedure Act, on the one hand, have led to a minor change in the specifications in order to clarify the rules that can be effectively implemented due to the capabilities of the systems and processes used. On the one hand, this practical means that previously regulated systems and processes cannot be implemented without correction. If the regulation had not been rushed, the measures now needed would not have gone to another HUF 35 million 600 thousand, as indicated in the impact assessment paper. On the other hand, the amendment is necessary because EU rules on the new electronic identification system have been transposed into the Hungarian legal system without regulating the transition between the old and the new system. During the period of government of the Hungarian Socialist Party, he placed great emphasis on electronic administration and the dissemination of contacts, the development of technical solutions for safe identification. The Fidesz government threw both developments and rules in the trash. For years, this area has been reduced and developed, until Fidesz has come up with and implemented new systems in the last year. In the area of electronic administration and communication, the rules that have been adopted, entered into force or not yet in force are not yet convincing. Since 2010, the government has demonstrated several times that it is not only procrastination in the regulation of electronic administration and electronic communications, but also that indiscriminateness and incomprehensibility have created explicitly unenforceable rules. An excellent example is pushing the introduction of an electronic register, but recent comprehensive regulations have failed several times. Regulation (EU) No 650/2012 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 December 2013 on the protection of individuals with regard to the processing of personal data and on the free movement of such data and on the free movement of such data and on the free movement of such data and on the free movement of such data and on the free movement of such data and on the free movement of such data and on the free movement of such data, amending Regulation (EU) No 650/2012 of the European Parliament and of the Council (OJ L 347, 20.12.2013, p. 1). T/4648 promulgated by law. Parliament adopted the bill on 9 June 2015. In addition to the fact that it contained unacceptable fundamental provisions, the deadline for the extension of the scope of electronic travel cases laid down by law was postponed by half a year from 1 July 2015 until 1 January 2016 among the text-exchange amendments for no reason whatsoever. I, among other things, expressly opposed this in the main speech of the bill myself. I pointed out that the amendments are unacceptable, and that they raise personal responsibility not only for the government but also for the President of the OBH, Tünde Hando. It was only a little while before the Parliament's table was the year 1952 III on the Civil Procedure. T/6627 on the amendment of Act T/6627 and other laws on procedural and judicial matters Bill No. 1. At the end of October 2015, they realized that summer regulation was incomplete and that a number of provisions had to be added. According to the impact assessment paper of the then bill, the proposal with a resource requirement of 3.4 billion, which was preceded by 2 days of administrative consultation, was quickly adopted. Too bad, Mr. Secretary. T/7312 arrived in November 2015 a legislative proposal on the general rules for electronic administration and trust services. A preliminary impact assessment sheet has not been prepared for this proposal. Yet the majority of governments have started a brand-new, comprehensive regulation of electronic administration. We already said at the time that the text, the mechanical, sometimes incomprehensible transposition of the relevant EU legislation, lack of legal guarantees precludes opposition support from the proposal. We stressed the serious question of the administrative and other burdens that the new electronic system will impose on them with regard to economic bodies and legal representatives. Now here's another product. The explanatory memorandum explains, inter alia, the current overall amendment with the aim of resolving the main practical and technical problems justifying the need for an earlier deadline adjustment. That means two things in Hungarian. One of the changes to the rules on electronic communications is also a change to the previous deadline. The other thing is that the only thing we're trying to do right now is to fix the main problems. The so-called pergate would ensure the electronic contact of business organisations and legal representatives with courts and other authorities, according to this bill, at least in the third version and the detailed rules. It can be seen that the economic operators are not at all concerned by the procedural conditions under which the appeal to the court takes place. The recent innovation that the reference to the general framework programme for filling out forms has been removed from the text has resulted in a number of such references being included in the text in December 2015. [[14.30]] However, according to the explanatory memorandum, the IT system will continue to be used in practice. The regulation on electronic signatures, which will enter into force on 1 July 2016, is equally confusing. The amendment of changes based on EU legislation, which have been adopted without reason, cannot be delayed, as there is a lack of necessary continuity for a transitional period. The new provisions also point to the consequences of previous sins. A service provider may provide new, enhanced security services only if, following conformity assessment, it reports this to the National Media and Infocommunications Authority, a body responsible for the supervision of trust. Conformity assessment bodies shall be accredited. Yes, but the former National Accreditation Authority was destroyed by the law on the transformation of the national accreditation system adopted in July 2015 by Kristóf Szatmáry, Péter Cseresnyés and Imre Vas! The explanatory statement of this bill acknowledges that the new NAT status is still uncertain after one year, and it is expected that the new Fidesz body will be entitled to carry out the activity by international organisations in May 2016. We said this then, Mr. Secretary, that the problem is that it will be so. It is therefore necessary to regulate the transitional period until 1 July 2017. This is an open confession to what Nándor Gúr said in the debate about the termination of the former NAT, that there was no real reason for the abolition of the respected body, but that was one of the space-busting actions of Fidesz. Now we are faced with the fact that communication is not everything, but reality cannot be overcome. The MSZP considers this bill to be another step towards pro-government amok running in the regulation of electronic contacts with courts and administrative authorities. The redundant billions, political reservation and corruption-suspecting developments pave the way for government parties to go on this issue, so, as we regard the proposals that have been missed, rash and unthinkable, we will not support this. Thank you very much.
u2016-04-27-86	Thank you very much. Congressman György Rubovszky, lead speaker of the KDNP.
u2016-04-27-87	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Dear Parliament, I will be very brief, all the more so, because the presentation of the bill was made in the expoze by the Secretary of State and in the keynote speech by Róbert Répássy. I was prepared to see the bill subject to concrete attacks, to make concrete excuses, and then I will respond to these excuses. This did not happen, on the other hand, we received a historical overview through glasses, through certain socialist glasses, the essence of which was that what was not actually good, and what is now is not good, but what is not good has not been specifically formulated. [[Dr. Gergely Bárándy's intervention.]] What? I don't understand, by the way... [[Dr. Gergely Bárándy: 20 times, it's been postponed many times!]]
u2016-04-27-88	Now, the thing is, this is KDNP's lead speech. [[Dr. György Rubovszky: Thank you very much.]] A representative of KDNP is speaking right now, so let's keep this privilege to ourselves. Here you go.
u2016-04-27-89	Thank you very much, Mr. President. With all due respect, I accept that several amendments have been made, and I hope that, at the moment, if the rapporteur or any of the Members will experience a deficiency in the procedure, this correction will obviously start. The fact that something is being improved more often does not mean that it is wrong, it means that everyone is trying to improve this matter according to progress and results. I would just like to say very briefly that the KDNP supports the adoption of this bill, and we agree with its objectives and its implementation. I'm asking the House to support me. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-04-27-90	Thank you very much. Now it's time for the lead speaker of the Jobbik, Congressman Gábor Staudt. Here you go.
u2016-04-27-91	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear House, We also support the proposal, but allow me to use some criticism. It is true that what Gergely Bárándy said could have been said in the same way, and it would have been even more so for socialist governments, because he did not participate in them as a minister or undersecretary of state when these processes did not start, but he is sitting in the same party, which unfortunately did not do too much for electronic administration. Of course, this would not allow Fidesz to move slowly, or the Fidesz government to move slowly in this area, and of course it would be possible to discuss who didn't start or who started it, but then who started it slowly. I am aware that this is a complex process that obviously cannot be introduced overnight, but it has been a few years to prepare for this in the public administration, and even companies and law firms can enable themselves, both their own IT systems and their own knowledge to deal with it. So I have to say that I, too, consider delays to be a little excessive, and it would have been better if this had been done more effectively. Although I also add that the tasks are still numerous, for example, on cassette tapes in the courts, recording the minutes is still recorded, and we are about to be there that they will not be able to buy a tape where they can buy it, because the cassette player en bloc is actually completely out of fashion, and for a few thousand forints excellent MP3 recorders and players could be bought. So we should move forward in this, too, if we are talking about the courts, but we are happy, of course, that if it can be submitted electronically and it will be mandatory to switch to that system, but, as I said, there is no need to ignore other elements of technology here. Unfortunately, we have also seen that not only at law firms or even less at law firms than in public administration or courts, they are quite behind in the application of the technical acquis, so to speak. This is not only a problem because of the background, so that the background of the server often does not work the way it could, or even with more expensive living workers, which could be easily, quickly and effectively solved with an investment to replace that workforce or to deal with others, such as working backlogs. That's half of it. I also have to say that in many cases it was possible to experience it, but I hope that there will be a change in this too, that, in many cases, the introduction of judges into the e-world would be justified in the case of a factual decision on a particular matter. For example, I told the Postal Act that it is very good, let's say, in this respect it is very good that these new procedures will be introduced there, for example, a signature can be recorded on a digital panel, and its transmission should be accepted as authentic as, say, a return. In many cases, we have found that, say, with the digitalized signature of an international courier service collected in a similar way, for example, by the recipient or his close relative, the court not only did not know what to do, but did not know what to do either - I trust that this was only one or two examples, and the majority was not like this, but could not interpret it - that now it is that it is possible to sign something digitally, so, in this form, let's say, on a digital display. But with the spread of all kinds of technical devices, the spread of smartphones and tablets, I trust that this will be integrated into everyday life. Returning to this proposal: I think the institution of the e-pergate is good, so this is a good initiative to separate the customer gate and the surface of the companies where the proposals can be submitted. If I remember correctly, they justify that, as a company divorced its manager, the company should not, in fact, be condemned as an independent legal entity to have to submit everything at the client's door. [[14.40]] This is all the more true, because indeed, and perhaps this was also included in the material, in many cases in substitutions this may be a problem, that the manager must give his own personal customer gate, so that if, let's say, he would hire a substitute to act. This allows you to access, for example, data protection or personal data, such as a tax return or other data. This is not just a question of trust, but I think it is an important legal guarantee that had to be created, and it would be difficult to argue in itself. Then the solution is that in relation to the various submissions, i.e. when, for example, the court is required to attach an annex and it cannot be uploaded, it must be accompanied by this form on a CD or USB medium. I add, I don't know if it's going to be possible, I didn't read this from the material at first, but maybe if an interface can be created in addition where the upload system can work, it might make the system easier in some ways. Because I understand that there is not a fast internet everywhere, but the government's goal is to provide high-speed internet services everywhere within a few years. If that's the case, you can actually fill up more giga content in 15 minutes, 20 minutes without any problem. So this is a legitimate solution, because, of course, it can be said that this will be interrupted or uploaded in pieces is not appropriate, but I believe that the content of a DVD will be fully uploaded, or, let's say, a video content, if you want to add video, TV or similar multimedia recordings as evidence, this can be done in addition to today's bandwidths. So I wouldn't dismiss it as such, or allow it as a developmental direction in the future, or even start at the beginning. What I don't fully understand, however, is probably the technical purpose, but here, perhaps, the electronic signature system will be technically modified, if I understand correctly, and a time stamp system will be developed. The reason I can't judge at the moment is whether this is going to be technically better than the current one, because I don't have such deep IT knowledge. However, I have to say that this is certain that it can cause some financial loss or financial damage, whether not to those institutions or even individuals, but let's say to law firms that have invested in these systems. I also do not see at this moment whether the new system can be implemented with those verification IT tools or with their conversion, or whether new devices must be acquired again, in the order of HUF 100,000. Here, the system of these electronic signatures has already been launched. It didn't start today, even though it wasn't mandatory to use it in many cases, but it has been for a very long time in company proceedings. And if these were to be completely replaced, it would obviously not reflect an elaborate long-term concept on the part of the Hungarian state and the government. I'm telling you, there may be a technical reason and a reason why we have to do this, but if we really have to replace it, there won't be any happy people who have to buy these tools again, or there's no economics in the institutions to replace the old ones. I also have to say that if this is the case, at least some kind of compensation should be included in the system, and perhaps the possibility of using these earlier instruments should be found. So together with these additions, we can support the proposal, but at the same time I ask the Secretary of State to make the transition on e- and electronic matters without any gaps; and do not come back, if possible, with proposals that suggest that he has still not been thought out and still ask Parliament for confidence in one round. This was supposed to be in a package. That didn't work in this form. We're just looking forward to achieving the ultimate goal, and that's why we're going to support it. These reservations, of course, which I have said, are held. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2016-04-27-92	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. There's no independent congressman in the room. Congressman Gergely Bárándy, MSZP asked for a two-minute speech. Here.
u2016-04-27-93	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I apologise, first of all, but I would prefer to answer in this form, rather than yell at Congressman Rubovszky. So it's true, Congressman, and I agree that it doesn't necessarily mean a law is wrong if it's modified. This has happened to the Csemegi Code several times, yet it has passed the test for a hundred years, at least as far as the strange part is concerned. However, if a law has been amended several times before its entry into force, and the date of its entry into force has been postponed and technical clarifications have been made on it, without, by the way, showing itself for a moment in practice, there is a reason to conclude that there is a lack of thought and a flaw in the bill. That is what I said, and that is exactly what I went through here in my speech as the lead speaker, and that was really the point, that in this area, in the field of electronic administration, we meet nothing but to amend these laws forever or to push them into force, in most cases before they ever came into force anyway. Moreover, I am, of course, of course, of the same point of view, and, contrary to what Congressman Staudt has said, we have put quite a lot of emphasis on changing to electronic administration, since it is time to move forward. I'm not gonna argue that for a second. Obviously, we both remember him, Congressman Rubovszky, perhaps better, even as a lawyer, but in the same capacity as me, how difficult it was for them to cross the courts, say, from the Robotron typewriter to the computer. Obviously, there is this fear here too, but the problem is that we are not only dealing with this fear here, but that the basic technical conditions for introducing electronic administration do not exist, for example, because there is a lousy computer park in the courts. These should first be improved, and then adopted these measures and legislative amendments, which, once again, are absolutely justified by the challenges of the age in general. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2016-04-27-94	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, I'll ask if anyone else wants to speak. [[There's no such signal.]] I'm gonna say no. As no one has made any further comments, the general debate is closed. I will ask Mr. Secretary of State Pogács, as rapporteur, if you wish to reflect. [[Scone Tibor nods.]] Here you go.
u2016-04-27-95	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear House, First of all, I thank my fellow Members for their support for the law, who argued in favour of the law. I believe that the introduction of electronic administration, the creation of conditions for this in all areas, is also necessary in the area of state and justice. Obviously, the amendments needed to introduce or create them must be made when these problems arise. This may raise questions in a timely manner. I, too, see that this law achieves its objective and will help the courts function. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[Applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2016-04-27-96	Thank you very much. I would like to inform you, Mr Parliament, that it is possible to submit amendments on Thursday at 4 p.m. Dear Parliament, A general debate on the draft law amending certain laws concerning the financial intermediary system will follow until closure. The government referral is T/10309. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, I give the floor to Mrs. Agnes Hornung, State Secretary of the Ministry of National Economy, author. Madam Secretary, please.
u2016-04-27-97	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Members, Today, I would like to present briefly to you a bill amending certain laws concerning the financial intermediary system. The fundamental purpose of this amendment is to respond to the ongoing changes in market processes and circumstances that affect our daily lives and to adapt to the changed EU rules. [[14.50]] This bill contains a review of certain elements of the financial intermediary regime and the implementation of EU legislation in domestic law. A number of laws are amended for this reason, including, in principle, amendments to the Banking Act, the Capital Markets Act, the Insurance Act and pension fund regulations, and amendments to the provisions of the Financial Intermediation System Supervisory Body of the National Bank Act. The financial intermediary system helps our lives in many places, expands our opportunities, serves our everyday lives, and supports and supports our long-term plans and perspectives as well. In this context, self-care and a decision that should be an integral part of our lives, and the financial sector will ensure flexibility and the possibility of reducing demographic challenges. Therefore, the rules on voluntary mutual insurance institutions are amended by continuing to ensure the functioning of these funds and the payment of membership fees. This amendment does not involve providing further assistance to these financial institutions, which ensures that these financial institutions are able to maintain the minimum requirement that we expect them to comply with. In addition, the law on occupational pension providers is amended. The aim of EU legislation on occupational pension savings is to harmonise the functioning of these institutions at European level, and consequently this law will be amended in accordance with EU rules, and we will comply with our obligations to harmonise legislation on this issue. Dear Parliament, The amendment to the Capital Markets Act is also included in many places in this proposal, including the amendments, which contribute to the recovery of the stock exchange. To this end, we propose to expand the activities that the stock exchange can carry out, which will allow the operation of new trading platforms and professional advisory activities for issuers. Greater attention to companies that are considering moving to the stock exchange, thus taking place, can help small and medium-sized enterprises to access capital market funds more easily. In order to reduce the costs and administrative burden of listing issues, the proposal also removes the obligation to draw up interim management reports. This proposal will therefore, in principle, help small and medium-sized enterprises to access the stock market in the future. In addition, we have not forgotten about investors, we are also amending the investor protection provisions, so that risky investments get the attention of investors as much as possible. Therefore, the classification of each category will be modified, for example, instead of a label at a different rate than the one at a different rate, the risky and the high risky categories will also be introduced in the case of these products. The bill before you also includes amendments to the market abuse parts of the Capital Markets Act. The amendment to these parts is due to the entry into force of the EU regulation on market manipulation and market abuse in July this year. It is not by accident that the EU has chosen the form of regulation to introduce these regulations, here the regulation is directly applicable in the Member States, so the rules on regulation in the Hungarian legal system had to be repealed. This amendment is therefore also intended to harmonise with EU legislation. Dear Parliament, In addition, the bill includes an amendment to the law on the provision of payment services. The amendment will allow the government to establish detailed rules for switching payment accounts and transparency of payment account fees. In addition, the proposal also applies in the event that the payment service provider offers the payment account to the consumer together with other products in a package of services, so that it is also necessary to provide a basis for such special cases in order to ensure the proper protection of consumers. In addition, the rules on intermediaries are tightened by the amendment of the Act on Credit Institutions and Financial Enterprises. In addition, credit institutions will have to pay particular attention to equal opportunities for people with disabilities in the future, so the amendments will also aim at these. The proposal also includes amendments to the resolution procedure for credit institutions, which basically aims to ensure that no owner or creditor can bear more losses than he would have suffered if the institution had been liquidated. In addition, further clarifications will be made as regards the powers of the MNB's resolution commissioner, and the proposal will clarify the time, subject matter and method limits of ownership and management rights exercised by the MNB in its resolution function over the institution under resolution. The proposal also includes amendments to the insurance sector. The Act on Insurance Activities is first amended. The amendments are related to the life insurance legislation and are of paramount importance for their subject matter and customer protection. On the one hand, they affect the definition of minimum investment amounts in the case of life insurance linked to investment and on the other hand, they amend the provisions aimed at ensuring the safer functioning of intermediaries. The proposals also concern exemptions from the obligation of confidentiality in certain official matters. This is basically done in the case of motor vehicle and agricultural insurance. In addition to the Insurance Act, the law on compulsory motor vehicle liability insurance is also amended, which basically amends the law in response to practical experience. In this context, the calculation of the limit amounts set in the European Union and the increase in the recovery thresholds shall be made in cases where the insurance undertaking converts innocent victims instead of a drunk driver or a driver who causes a criminal offence. The amendments also concern the extension of the claims of the indemnification account to cases of negligence of the principal. To sum up, I would like to say that the purpose of the proposed legislation is to further strengthen the financial intermediary system, to stimulate it, to make it safer and to adapt financial legislation to the EU legislative framework. I therefore ask you to support this proposal. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause from the Fidesz ranks.]]
u2016-04-27-98	Thank you very much, Madam Secretary. Now we're going to have keynote speeches. First, I give the floor to Mihály Witzmann, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2016-04-27-99	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Dear Parliament, The purpose of the bill before us is to review certain elements of the financial intermediary regime and to initiate amendments to a number of provisions as a result of the review. As we have just heard from the secretary of state, the legislative package covers a total of 16 laws, and the laws on credit institutions, capital markets, insurance and pension funds are amended accordingly, but, among other things, the provisions on the National Bank of Hungary are changing. The proposal also aims to comply with the implementation of certain EU rules in the domestic legal system, as Regulation (EU) No 596/2014 on market abuse and the related implementing directive are in force for Member States from 2014 onwards, and, of course, for Hungary as well, should operate and apply accordingly from 3 July 2016. Ladies and gentlemen, Allow me not to speak about each of the amendments to the 16 laws separately, but, first and foremost, to present only the most important measures or proposals for amendments to you. One of these elements is the proposal for voluntary mutual insurance institutions, where the legislator clearly intends that, in the event of an amendment to the fund's statutes, membership should also have access to the usual services after the cashier's transformation. In addition, the amendment also provides for the possibility of establishing a health and self-help fund in the future, and also allows for a transition from the health and self-help fund to the health and self-help fund. [[15.00]] The amendment also aims to make changes in the structure of the members' organisation of the fund. Under the rules currently in force, the amount of the member organisation fee shall not exceed the share of the paid member fee per operational reserve in the first calendar year, and no additional remuneration or other allowance may be granted. According to the amending proposal, this regime would continue, but in the case of newly established members, if and if no member or member of any other similar fund were the member of the new legal relationship, this remuneration limit would not apply in this case. There is also a change in complaint handling, as it is an important new element that when a complaint is made, the cashier must provide for the possibility of receiving a live-in call within a maximum of five minutes. Another important element of the proposal is the amendment of the law on compulsory insurance against liability in respect of motor vehicles, which provides that the injured customer can receive the name of the liability insurer of the injured customer and the policy number of the insurance contract, provided that the injured party gives a power of attorney in the settlement of claims. In addition, the amounts of the upper limits of claims payable in connection with the damage event will be changed, according to which the insurance undertaking will be required to meet the amount of HUF 1 million up to EUR 220 thousand per damage event, in the event of personal injury, and up to HUF 6 million equal to EUR 70 thousand per damage event. These amounts also include claims enforceable in respect of any damage event, costs of claim enforcement, costs of legal representation and interest for the period up to the date of delivery. In the event of damage caused by a vehicle without compulsory insurance, the so-called indemnification invoice managed by Mabis shall continue to be valid for the victim, but may then be refunded by law in the event that the driver has been in a condition that has been controlled by an alcoholic or adversely affecting the ability to drive, or has not held an appropriate licence to drive the vehicle, or has caused the damage to be caused by a failure to provide assistance or by deliberate endangerment in the occupation. The bill before us also proposes changes to the Capital Markets Act. These are, in fact, amendments which aim to ensure that customers are better informed on the whole. Accordingly, the proposal distributes securities into two separate categories. One is the highly risky category and the other is the highly risky category of securities. It is also in the interests of customers to amend the credit institution law according to which credit institutions must have a review strategy at least every two years to ensure that persons with disabilities have equal access to the financial services they provide. In addition, the bill before us also clarifies the limitations of ownership and management rights, rights in terms of time, object and method exercised by the Magyar Nemzeti Bank, acting in its resolution function, and clearly states that the resolution commissioner is active in order to enforce resolution objectives and resolution measures. The law on the private pension fund and private pension funds is amended in order to ensure that the amount of the own activity reserve serving as the reserve for the provision of cash benefits will be adapted to the liabilities of the cashier in the future. Currently, the current law provides for the provision of an own activity reserve of HUF 100 million to the cashiers in this case, if they wish to carry out the benefits themselves. However, according to the current draft, this amount of EUR 100 million would be increased by the sum of the following values for the own activity reserve. In particular, the HUF 80 million specified in point (a) would be added to this HUF 80 million by 1 percent of the total individual account balance of the members reaching the retirement age by the end of the 5th year following the reference year, from the beginning of the 6th year following the next reference year until the end of the 14th year, 1 percent of the total individual account balance of the 20 percent of the female members reaching the retirement age, but not less than HUF 100 million. So here we are talking about an increase of at least 180 million forints. A further addition to the own activity reserve is that 40 per cent of the operational reserve and 70 per cent of the liquidity and risk reserve can be taken into account to cover it. Another change is that in the future private banks, together with the consideration of asset management activities, can account for around 0,3 per cent of the last daily balance of members' individual accounts in the previous year. Dear Parliament, As I said at the beginning of my speech, the proposal also intends to comply with the EU directives and its implementation in the Hungarian legal order. The entry into force of Regulation (EU) No 596/2014 constitutes a two-way legislative task for the legislator. On the one hand, it is necessary to repeal the rules contained in the Capital Markets Act which are now the exclusive regulatory scope of the Regulation and, on the other hand, to transpose Commission Implementing Directive 2012/2392/EU of 17 December 2017, also within the framework of the Capital Markets Act. The provisions transposing the Directive clearly define the obligations of supervision in relation to the receipt and follow-up of notifications of infringements. The most important element of the regulation is the fixing of obligations for the protection of whistleblowers and employees under employment contracts on the side of supervision. Ladies and gentlemen, I believe that, overall, the legislative amendments listed above will in any way contribute to a more efficient and transparent functioning of the financial intermediary system, and I therefore respectfully ask my fellow Members to support this proposal if they agree with it. Thank you for your attention. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]] [[István Jakab, vice-president of the Parliament takes the chair.]]
u2016-04-27-100	Thank you very much, Congressman. Welcome, fellow Members. Here comes the lead speaker of the Jobbik Group. I give the floor to Congressman Dániel Z. Carpát.
u2016-04-27-101	Mr President, Dear House, There are chapters in the history of Hungarian parliamentarism where it cannot and must not be promised great. Since 2010, since I have been sitting in this House, perhaps the most boring so-called debate is currently taking place, as my pro-government colleague and the secretary of state, which I have respected, are reading what is in this bill without any substantive justification, almost literally. Neither pro-government nor opposition representatives have yet entered into a substantive debate on the fact that you have put a package on the table that the European Union has demanded of you, dictated to you, so that there are some provisions of a legal harmonisation and implementation nature, and the real reason you have not been able to talk about is because the measures to protect Hungarian customers and consumers are simply missing from this package, or are found in it in ways that are not at all certain to serve the interests of Hungarian victims, customers, so-called consumers; although we do not like to use this term as a consumer. The reason why we have to use it is that the Parliament had a separate Committee on Consumer Protection in the previous term, which worked as a separate committee for four years, but in the same way as this committee ceased to exist and was integrated into Economics, so the whole consumer protection was actually placed under the Hungarian National Bank, at least the parts to which the bill refers. At the same time, it is important to see that even if a package of legislative harmonisation approaches were to be put before us, there could still be additional roads for the benefit of the Hungarian people, let me give you an example: in terms of customer information, this bill states that the separation, distribution between high-risk and high-risk papers should be carried out and all this should be made known to the client. What we have been sorely missing since 2010, since the rise of the so-called foreign exchange credit crisis, is that, in fact, there should be a comparative system, which is consistent with all aspects of transparency, and which is clearly not only expected of the government. You can't just expect a parliamentary mandate, obviously, you need cooperation from the banking system, but it can and must be forced out. Our main problem is that there may be an EU harmonisation effect on securities, but if a simple Hungarian person goes to the large store and is persuaded to borrow a type of consumer credit, or is persuaded to buy a fast loan that can kill his life for 5-8-10 years, if this contract is not concluded properly, he will still not receive the appropriate consumer protection shield system and will not be given the opportunities to defend himself against these external influences. [[15.10]] We understand that it is important to protect investors, but unfortunately, the majority of the Hungarian society is not a securities buyer, not a securities-borrower or owner, but a simple person who needs protection from a billionaire, oiled machine, a machine operating in a very sophisticated way. We also see that the debate on the draft budget is about to start, and Jobbik will do everything in its power to achieve a very serious financial reinforcement for these consumer protection subsystems, and we would like to bring a great deal of budgetary resources together to those bodies whose operation would make sense. Here, in this bill, it would perhaps be worth highlighting the points concerning financial reconciliation bodies, because instead of having huge reinforcements here, they would make this organization more muscular and provide it with more effective opportunities, we see that, in fact, there is a kind of intention to set aside in relation to the cases initiated by the people who are coming here, because, according to point (c) of the relevant passage, if the dispute is frivolous or harassing, it is possible to reject a person's application on this basis, which is subjective to far-reaching. We can therefore say that there may be a suspicion that they may try to reduce or change the number or composition of the cases grouped here, as it is obvious that the government does not have an interest in bringing matters together here and, where appropriate, using compulsions that can help the Hungarian people concerned by alternative methods. So if we want to change the weighting - in addition to accepting 80 percent of the recommendations of the harmonisation of laws myself, so do not look for a kakán kack - if we want to change the weighting, then, in addition to the protection of the securities holders and not rather, they would have a dog duty to act for the Hungarian credit-damaged, the victims of the Hungarian people, the fast loan companies and, by the way, for the sake of the people who do not now receive this entire net, and who in this case may rightly feel that there are often turnarounds on the stock exchanges; they, simple Hungarian people, the small ones, whose money - I am thinking of the foreign exchange-crediters - is being spent encrypted by the foundations of the Hungarian National Bank, they are less important, they are second-class citizens. You can also feel this from the fact that while the lucky ones were able to pay off their so-called foreign exchange loan at HUF 180, the simple Hungarian person remained at the near-market rate forints above 256 forints. Jobbik would also like to express here that, in addition to HUFing at the rate of admission, he will break a spear, and he will recover the money of the foreign exchange lenders from those who have it now, but we must say that in the meantime, we will support the well-intentioned proposals. 80 percent of the recommendations and implementation-type amendments found here are eligible, but the weighting and the rates should be changed very seriously. To sum up briefly, I would like to say once again that in addition to the securities holders, we must provide the Hungarian ordinary people with a protective shield that protects them against the abuse of a billionaire, oiled financial machine. Thank you for your attention. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2016-04-27-102	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. Dear Parliament, As an independent Member has not applied for a speech, none of my fellow Members have applied in writing, I am asking if anyone else wishes to speak. [[For signal:]] Yes, I give the floor to Congressman György Szilágyi, Jobbik Group.
u2016-04-27-103	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, I would just like to add a sentence or two to what Daniel Z. Carpathian said about the protection of small people, how vulnerable they are. It would indeed be expected of the government to pay attention to this and to protect people who do not want to participate in any financial matter with large amounts of money and no stock exchange. But how can you be expected when... let me give you an example? The government makes provisions and directs the whole process towards an objective that, in my opinion, is almost outrageous. Perhaps all our fellow Members can agree that people who are vulnerable for whatever reason, who live in difficult circumstances or who, let us say, have disabilities in today's world, should be helped to live their lives in the best possible conditions. Such help can be, say, for people with disabilities who have musculoskeletal disorders or anything else to get a car. Indeed, there is a possibility that the government will help them to buy a car by providing state aid, state money, state resources. But how do you provide this state resource, this state aid? So if you want to buy a car, you can only get the state aid if you borrow a bank loan on the difference, so if you have money, you can't pay the difference, but you have to borrow a bank loan. This is what the state is obliging people who, for some reason, are entitled to buy cars and receive state aid, i.e. people with disabilities. So you're forcing these people to borrow money, but not just any way! They can take this loan from a bank, define one bank, and this one bank is linked to an oligarch of Fidesz. [[Dr. Csaba Gyüre: Shame!]] How do they get this loan? With a 20 percent APR, some experts believe that the same credit could be obtained today on the market with an APR of between 11 and 13 percent. No, these people are obligated to take this loan with 20 percent APR from their own oligarch. Well, you know, that's what it's called - I don't want to say nasty words right now - it's almost a gastric and insolent thing, nothing is sacred to you, nothing matters to you, it's just that you're filling your pockets, and at whose expense you're doing this, it doesn't matter to you at all, and you're even willing to take the shark off of people who are not only worthy of it, but also to help their lives as much as possible, to help them get along. Thank you so much for listening. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2016-04-27-104	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Mr Dániel Z. Kárpát, Member of the Jobbik Group, has applied for a speech. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2016-04-27-105	Mr President, Dear House, We have been used here in Parliament for the last six years to the fact that, with the exception of some very decent State Secretarys and Ministers, the majority does not usually get involved in the debate, but rather tries to give some kind of answer in terms of closing, or do not have these answers. There are exceptions, such as Péter Benő Banai, who we can actually accuse every time that at least he speaks to us. In this case, it is not that the pro-government representatives do not speak to us, but do do so with the multitude of voters behind us that the substantive proposals such as György Szilágyi are not necessarily given so modern, XXI. 100th-century responses, which would otherwise be required by the situation. I can say that, in the case of the package before us, it is very important that certain amendments are made to the background of the so-called unit-linked types of insurance, they are made safer, in the case of life insurance linked to the investment, minimum investment amounts are fixed, but we still need to see how much weight is affected by these provisions, and there are some yelling shortcomings on the other side, when, in the example that we have just mentioned, there are a lot of consumer concerns for the simple people. I do not wish to abuse the framework of the general debate, which is why I mentioned the terms contained in the bill before I rob them of their patience for two or three minutes, their attention on what is really needed in Hungary, but we cannot go without saying that if a Hungarian enters a bank, he does not necessarily have to take credit to feel deprived already. You all know, to whom Hungary refers a relatively high salary, that the sum of between HUF 1 and HUF 5 000 per month for the use of the bank account will be deducted from virtually everyone in this country who is a working person and will assume tasks that, where appropriate, it will result in a tax liability and a tax payment. At the same time, we see that this bank withdrawal, which has already been treated as a mandatory tax, is either entirely unjustified or at least questionable in most cases. It is clear that financial institutions can and should be entrusted with the provision of a free bank account package, but in my opinion it is not a demand from reality that, at least until the average salary is paid, everyone should not only be able to get their money free of charge, so they should not, by themselves, pull off another skin for taking their salary, but also the basic banking operations should be free of charge in the third millennium, once again, in today's IT capabilities and circumstances. That is why I do not want to talk about a social bank account scheme here again, because Jobbik has explained this on numerous occasions, and this is in the records of other debates, but if there is a government that will be open to the trouble of small people, it will obviously introduce something like this. [[15.20]] But what we have to say is that the move towards free banking, which is a phenomenon that happens worldwide, simply cannot exist, cannot be done by the government and its background experts as if globalisation did not exist in some cases, but in this case, at least in its exploitable age, a trend which refers to, and points to, the free circulation of money for people to the level of average wage, at least. Obviously, we are not talking about securities market operations here, but this situation raises the need to move towards a free bank account structure, which the government is not just a modern XXI. He couldn't give a century's answer yet, but he couldn't really squeeze a meaningful reaction out of himself. As a conclusion, in the case of borrowers, when Hungarian citizens have been forced into loans in many cases over the last decade, and now some favourable credit market conditions have had a great many of them to take out loans, there is still no system of comparison, whether with a modern IT background, a system where a person can only enter the amount and different conditions he has requested, and can be measured, transparent, transparent and transparent, which financial institution treats him fairly and which one is unduly looting him. Therefore, Hungarians should not have to hack into small prints in the age of globalisation, and it would be expected that the Hungarian Internet user should not use private portals, not on the comparison pages of financial firms, but that a fair government should create consumer protection conditions that are comparable to financial services, and that trap situations can be eliminated. Compared to this, I understand that you have self-criticism, because you can show very little in the area of consumer protection, it is indeed that someone took on a so-called loan at 165 forints, and you forinted it to him at 256 forints, it is a shame and a shame. So I understand your restraint on this subject, but it is never too late to learn, it is never too late to learn and start a process that makes different conditions comparable at least for new borrowings, and makes it available that Hungarian families are not to be torn up again in similar subjects and for similar reasons. We see that it is likely that another government will be responsible for accounting for the financial system, because the current government is not willing to do so, but we do expect them not to be afraid of measures of a consumer nature until then, and at least they will bring back those that cost this country zero forints, as they could help the Hungarian people a great deal. Thank you for the opportunity. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2016-04-27-106	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I'm asking if anyone else would like to speak on the agenda. [[No one's reporting.]] I do not see an application; the general debate is closed. I will ask Ms Ágnes Hornung, State Secretary, if she wishes to respond to what was said in the debate. [[For signal:]] Yeah. I give the floor to the secretary of state.
u2016-04-27-107	Thank you very much. Mr President, Honourable Members, A lot has just been said, and I would like to react briefly. I think, however, the speeches were essentially on the subject of consumer protection. As I have just said, and Mr Witzmann, the main elements of this proposal are essentially about consumer protection, so they contain a number of provisions that promote consumer protection rules, the interests of investors and consumers. This can be seen throughout the financial services system, from pension insurers to investor protection organisations, intermediaries, motor vehicle liability insurance, I think that progress is being made in all areas that will serve this objective, which you are also criticising. This is one of the pillars I wanted to remember. On the other hand, we cannot create rules in today's EU rule system that go ahead in the EU rule system, because then there would be a transitional period that would lead to legal uncertainty. The same objective is the creation of a European Union legislation, the Brochures Directive. It is already in its name that the brochure is an information system that will provide customers with a wide range of information. This will cover everything, and will also cover most of the areas listed in today's bill. This regulation is coming to an end in the EU and is expected to be adopted in the summer. Today, creating a rule that would prevent this from happening, I think it would make no sense. Waiting for this rule, implementing these questions into domestic law, which are listed today, we will be able to get some answers. The third thing I would like to respond to is the relationship with banks and the information that banks provide. We are in constant negotiations with banks, which will lead to a normalisation of banking relations. This is, on the one hand, the banking sector government, which obviously affects consumers less, but in doing so, we are concluding agreements with the banking system that are expected to affect and have a positive impact on consumers. However, what information system a bank provides to consumers, not specifically; it can obviously be included in directives and rules, but they will be able to define them. I would like to say that there have been a number of provisions in the last year that have served the interests of investors. There was indemnification, after the forinting, fairbank law was passed, all of which served the satisfaction of consumers and to achieve the greatest possible return. In the future, we will continue to plan such changes, the creation of invoice packages that serve precisely such needs. It should contain the content that consumers generally need, under modern conditions, under appropriate conditions. I very much hope that these will be achieved in the future, and that they will not be the basis for these discussions. In this package of legislation, I think once again that it is a forward-looking package of legislation that concerns the entire financial intermediary system. I would like to conclude this speech and thank you again for your support for the legislative package. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-04-27-108	Thank you very much, Madam Secretary. Dear Parliament, The amendments may be submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. Dear Parliament, I declare that at today's extraordinary meeting of the House Committee, the representatives of the present factions agreed that the V/10090 on the use of EU funds for Hungary in the period 2007-13. Parliament shall discuss the political debate as an EU item. Dear Parliament, There will be a general debate on the bill on state officials until closure. Government referral T/10267. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, I give the floor to Mr Zoltán Kovács, Secretary of State, rapporteur of the item on the agenda. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2016-04-27-109	Mr President, Dear fellow Members, Ladies and gentlemen. Following the government's entry into office in 2010, it took a number of measures to reform and renew the system of public administration. We have had quite a few debates on this issue here in the House. As of 1 January 2011, the territorial administration was established, practically turning to the opposite of a disintegration process, a process of integration, and 253 organisations entered the government offices. On 1 January, district offices were established, and the restructuring of the organisational system is practically bringing as close as possible to citizens a number of parts of the case. It was noticeable that, in recent times, there has been no debate at the heart of politics and choice about the transformation of this system, so we believe that the subsequent government transformation efforts can be adapted to this transformation of the system. The development, as I said, is a multi-stage process and is now in the process of reviewing central offices. In this context, most of the official tasks are transferred from the central level to the metropolitan and county government offices and district offices. [[15.30]] This will also define new tasks and competences and responsibilities. It is therefore possible to introduce new rules on staff at this level as a first step. The measure to strengthen the system of the district office intends to continue the administration reform by transferring it to the central offices, as I mentioned, to the district offices, and thus to the customers. This is accompanied by the renewal of staff, the establishment of a new government official's faculty, in order to ensure that the State can provide workers in the territorial administration with a decent livelihood in accordance with the tasks and responsibilities assigned to them and with an official's office. Public administration, even if of an official nature, is oriented by the needs and problems of citizens. Public administration close to the citizen has a chance to be effective and effective if this level of citizens with resources and abilities, including human abilities, is properly equipped, equipped, equipped, trained and empathetic. Dear fellow Members, The main burden of the transformation is the staff of the metropolitan and county government offices, including the officials of the district offices. The professional administration is also politically sound, so the priority and model management of the metropolitan and county government offices and the taking first place in career regulation. To this end, the Government adopted in December 2015 the establishment of the Faculty of Public Officials of the Republic of 1961/2015. Government Resolution No 1. On this basis, the draft law on public officials was drawn up on the basis of the 2011 Civil Service Officers Act as a background rule. Moreover, the fact that there are currently two laws in parallel, a background law and the introduction of a new regulation may arise on this issue. With the gradual introduction of this, we want to achieve that the State officials' faculty is, in fact, the new name of the Átv. to be covered while at the same time as Kttv. it may function as an underlying piece of legislation. The aim is, moreover, to establish a new system of professional qualifications and experience as well as performance-appreciating officials and related salary systems within the framework of the modern service state. So, in fact, we want to introduce a change of culture with this new law. The essence of this is that, in relation to the previous multi-step, tied, almost normative system, it is the performance of the responsibility, of the management responsibility and of the job, adapted to the function, which, on the one hand, must primarily raise and financially recognise the prestige of the work in the case of officials. With the adoption of the proposal, we would practically create a bottom-up system, with the recognition and support of the course of life of people working in the district administration as of 1 July. This concerns some 20,000 state officials by restructuring central offices, and will receive a wage increase from 1 January to 1 January in the entire territorial administration of the county government. I would also like to stress that, if anyone were to raise a budget of 17 and the budget of this year, it would include the resources needed to do so. Dear fellow Members, A public administration and public service development strategy has been prepared for 2014-2020. I would like to quote a passage that could serve as a basis for this bill. According to the wording:. The establishment and professional operation of a State of supply anywhere is unimaginable without the personnel who are identified, prepared and motivated and without a modern human resources management system, as the performance of the public administration depends also on the performance of personnel and personnel activities. I'll tell you how much it depends on the performance here. So institutional reform alone is not sufficient, and it is necessary to do so by means of this new regulation, in exchange for better quality performance, to ensure adequate pay and promotional opportunities in the territorial administration. The need for regulation on the status of new state officials other than that of Kttv is justified by the tasks performed by government agencies, including district offices, as well as by the organisational and operational characteristics, which should be flexible but also adapted to certain elements of the service relationship with appropriate guarantees. The bill significantly transforms Kttv. his career and salary system. It introduces a long-distance salary system, the application of which, as I have already said, requires greater responsibility from the employer. At the same time, it provides an opportunity to manage a salary more proportionate to the duties and performance of the official. With the application of the fixed salary system, the majority of the salary supplement, the basic salary hijacking and the allowances will be abolished, while guaranteeing that the official is entitled to the salary at the lower limit in any case on a subject-law basis. This also means that the allowances will be incorporated and will not get out of the system, will remain in the system only under a single salary scheme. To give you some examples of change. Let's say a career-starting social services manager is currently in the Kttv. According to him, he earns HUF 155 thousand gross, the new career limit is 180 thousand. So an increase of about 25 thousand, this is a total of 16 percent, but if I take the median, it can rise to 240 thousand forints, a 55 percent increase. But in the most difficult situation, we have employees who have very low wages, some 3,000 people had to be added to the guaranteed minimum wage. In their case, we can talk about even more significant growth. For example, an 8-year district clerk who now earns 129 thousand forints, in his case the change with the lower limit is 41 thousand forints, this is almost 32 percent, and if you look at the median, it can increase by 51 percent. But there are other examples. On average, 30 percent is the salary increase, which means a stronger increase than the starter in the lower category. Of course, we take into account your qualifications and seniority, so your time on the track, but basically the paradigm shift in the system is based on responsibility, performance and work. With regard to the system of advancement, I would like to say that it introduces 4-4 careers in the administration department with a higher education and graduation degree, but it also provides an opportunity to be classified as a so-called "priority administrator." So there are special skills that can be paid by this classification, because where the competition sphere is extremely separated from the administrative sphere, there is a high absorption effect, especially in the capital and in the county of Pest, an opportunity must be given to the employer for such a classification. The ongoing training with the involvement of the National University of Public Service has triggered many debates. I would like to say that this is not only where they are created, but the primary field of organisation and education is the National University of Public Service, but it can involve everyone in this system from the sector world, only the organisation is located primarily at the University of Public Service. We believe that it is important to train a professional administration of state management, that is to say, a course in state science and, in particular, to have a doctoral degree. Obviously, not in a mass way, but in a way that allows professional state managers to be created, who can be used at any point in the administration of the state, at any point in the executive power. [[15.40]] Accordingly, it is proposed that officials to be appointed after the entry into force of the law should receive professional training in administrative studies within two years. The training obligation also covers those who are already in a legal relationship and officials in a managerial position. This is not a normative rule; it is possible to exempt, for example, those with a legal examination, just in order not to be a normative rule, to grant exemptions to these workers with the right expertise. We believe that a more flexible pay system will allow more competitive employment, with which administrative tasks and related procedures will be further rationalised. With the entry into force of the law, the district offices and, as I mentioned, the county government offices will be employees of state officials from 1 January 2017. Mr President, Dear fellow Members, The settlement of current salaries is a priority issue. The State Reform Committee has already taken the view that a large government civil servant or government official faculty is not being created, but rather sectoral careers. There are already known examples of this, the pedagogical career, but there are also careers in the field of uniforms, and the NAV career is now under preparation. So the government officials, as I said, also represent a sector. In the new salary scheme, heads of government agencies will have the opportunity to establish, in a responsible but flexible manner, the salary assigned to each specific job requiring specific expertise within the framework of pre-defined staff appropriations. In Hungary today, the proportion of people financed from the state budget in terms of total employment exceeds the OECD average as well as the neighbouring countries. We believe that if we want to increase our competitiveness or not to be disruptive in the Central and Eastern European region, and if we want to reach the title of the most developing state, the state, as an employer in a simpler legal environment, should be cost-effective and predictable. To do so, it is necessary to create a career for those working there, with a significant wage increase. The experience of this will help us to complete the whole system in the next few years in the framework of a pilot project, for other colleagues and colleagues in the public administration. I would ask my fellow Members to support this proposal. But I would also like to say that we are obviously open not to changing the backbone of the whole system, but to a number of amendments. There was a multiparty discussion at the same time as the legislative proposal, and there were a number of questions that we tried to clarify. I think that this debate may also be able to make this law better than what we imagine, looking for a common solution, because the point is that our colleagues, who are closest to the citizens in the executive power and are dealing with their affairs, should be those who have a decent personal wage or salary recognition as of 1 July of this year. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-04-27-110	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Now we're going to hear the speeches from the lead speaker. I give the floor to Congressman Vas Imre, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group.
u2016-04-27-111	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Even before the 2010 change of government, we have often said that we should restore the honour of the work. We have tried to promote this through a number of measures over the past six years. Of course, the value of work is not only measured in material terms, it can also be recognised by expertise and expertise, but we should also not forget about material appreciation, especially if someone is doing his work for the service of the public. The T/10267 in front of us. The bill on public officials, tabled on 1 January 2004, was drafted to restore the authority of the work carried out by officials of the territorial administration, which also recasts the system of financial benefits, promoting and introducing a significant increase in salaries. We citizens, in our daily lives, have a number of expectations about public administration, whether we conduct our documents in a document office or apply for a licence to carry on an activity. As the Fundamental Law provides for Article XXIV. The Court has the right to rule on matters which the public authorities are entitled to deal with impartially, fairly and within a reasonable period of time. To achieve this constitutional goal, the government is constantly working to cut red tape. We just accepted the new package yesterday. However, we must not forget that cutting red tape on the customer side always leads to administrative labour growth in the short term. Not to mention that officials should also have this modern knowledge, in turn, in order to modernise the state administration, the results of the technical development of the age must be at the disposal of citizens in all circumstances. I am convinced that expectations can only be formulated if recognition and compensation can be taken seriously. I believe that the elements of the bill before us are not only attractive for those already working in the territorial administration, but also for well-trained young people at the beginning of their careers. I think it is very important for the government to start the settlement of wages at district level, since this is the area in the public administration where the work carried out and the salary are least proportional to each other, partly thanks to the increased amount of tasks. In the design of the salary scheme, it was identified as a priority to increase the salary of the lowest-suited persons. Of course, I also welcome the possibility of such a payment arrangement later in the higher public administration. The new regulation will provide for the establishment of a system of salaries for officials of government offices and district offices, which is proportionate to the tasks and responsibilities of the officials' office and which is worthy of a living. Speaking of responsibility, I consider it a very forward-looking regulatory direction that the proposal gives the employer sufficient leeway to set wages. On the one hand, this solution is fortunate because it encourages workers to perform, and while time in public administration is meritful, it is not enough to be recognised. On the other hand, the operation of the Office can also benefit from well-performing state officials, which can be based on good management decisions, thus being clarified by management responsibility. I would add that the lower limit of the salary will at least provide officials with a decent living after the adoption of the law. [[15.50]] However, given what has been said, it is not possible to determine in general what an increase in salaries is being made by the proposal, since it can be between 15 and 60% for individuals. As I referred to it, the XXI. The modernisation of the Hungarian administration of the 20th century places great emphasis on the use of the technical acquis, the building of electronic administration, and in the changing world, the legislation is constantly changing, and I think I do not need to stress this particularly here in the Parliament, which public officials not only need to know, but also apply with the most modern means. It is therefore very important that the proposal provides for a continuous training obligation and an opportunity for those working in the public administration. One of the keys to our modern administration could be to use and employ professionals with up-to-date knowledge who are capable of properly implemented technical and technological developments for the benefit of citizens. Finally, I would like to draw attention to the fact that, given the importance of the matter yesterday, the Prime Minister's Office held a five-party consultation, which became a four-party one. It's not the first time it's said today, it's not the only bill. The opposition groups have shown constructive behaviour, feeling the importance of the proposal. An exception is the faction of the MSZP, who, as usual, did not take part in the meeting. For them, it's probably not that important. [[Dr. Gergely Bárándy: At least they can read.]] Because the socialists have already been in charge of the leasing freeze. For us, however, it is an extremely important question that we can contribute to the 21st century. To further develop and develop a modern Hungarian administration, meeting the challenges of the century, and to obtain financial respect and professional recognition for officials working in it. Thank you for listening. Please vote in favour of the adoption of the bill. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2016-04-27-112	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr Gergely Bárándy, the lead speaker of the MSZP Group. Congressman!
u2016-04-27-113	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, First of all, let me make a few points before I get into the details about my speech as the lead speaker. Firstly, perhaps the most important thing we agree on is that, as in the private sector, there is a need for a raise in the public sector. If this proposal was not about anything else and it was resolved with satisfaction, then, of course, we could support it. However, at least when interpreting the provisions, our experts have shown that there is no clear increase in salaries for everyone in the public sector. [[Dr. Csaba Gyüre: That's right!]] Some will, but others will not, especially in the case of graduate civil servants, government officials, state officials - we will name them for a while. The other thing that we cannot answer is also and we do not know under the law what kind of redundancies will be needed in the public sector, because this law is not only about some sort of payment settlement, but also about the fact that it exposes civil servant status to further vulnerability, i.e. increasing the level of vulnerability so far. Therefore, since we do not see these two things in a secure and reassuring way, it would be enough in itself to prevent us from supporting this bill. My second point is that we're dealing with a little bit of a similar phenomenon to the one we're dealing with here at XX. In the century, Uncle Jozsi did not leave his village, yet he became a citizen of many states. The same is the fate of officials in the public sector. Anyone who, let's say, joined the state's service in 2010, is now doing his job under the fourth law. He was a former civil servant, then became a government official, then followed by the Public Service Officers Act, and now the State Officials Act. This alone, I think, indicates that the government is unable to pursue an appropriate and balanced policy in this area. My third general remark relates to what my fellow Member also mentioned in his somewhat stalling reading why we did not participate in the five-party consultation. We did not participate, honourable Member and honourable Secretary of State, because we are not participating in five-party negotiations on legislative proposals that the government has already tabled. 'Cause it's just part of the political circus. If you really wish to agree and really seek a professional consensus, then you will convene Members of the parliamentary parties before submitting a bill and not after it. After that, it is obviously the parliamentary order that we will discuss and discuss the bill here in plenary. Another issue is that I am ready to be consulted on any kind of consultation, if we would like to talk about, say, the amendments. But in a law that has already been tabled, I do not think that it is worth holding five-party negotiations. Perhaps my most important general comment, which is why we are certainly unable to support this bill. Let me put it this way, for to whom the ideal public servant image is, we can hardly come to a common denominator as to what their name is. What is apparent from your 2010 legislation, including when civil servants were converted to government officials, is the ideal image of the creation of a relatively well-maintained, but infinitely vulnerable officials' faculty. By this I mean that at any time it can be moved, relocated, dismissed, and which, therefore, is certainly loyal to power. This law goes on and is based on this philosophy. And there's no way we can support that. Now let's get to the details that make me think that way. Let's start with how public service can be established at district level from 1 July 2016 and at the level of metropolitan and county government offices from 1 January 2017. I believe that this will be followed by the additional staff at a higher level. So, what are the conditions for setting up? Mr. Secretary of State referred to it in his expo, but I would like to say a little bit more. Article 5 Paragraph (2) of the Act reads: "The state service relationship is Kttv. 39. In addition to the provisions of Section 2 of this Article, only a person who holds professional qualifications in administrative studies or undertakes to acquire professional qualifications in administrative studies within two years of his appointment may be established. In addition to this, a provision in paragraph 3 may supplement the conditions necessary for the employment of the employer. In this way, it may specify whether, in the course of state and administrative higher education as defined by law, it has completed a higher education degree obtained under the training of the NKE or undertakes to obtain the diploma within the period specified by the employer, by extending the period specified by the employer up to the end of the seventh year from the date of appointment. Let's see what the exceptions are before the conclusions are drawn otherwise. The training obligation under paragraph 2 shall be exempt from the requirement of the law from the requirement of professional qualifications in the field of state sciences, of basic or master qualifications in the administration or of administrative examinations or of an equivalent degree in science accepted by law prior to the appointment in accordance with paragraph 2 of this Article. [[16.00]] Ladies and gentlemen, Two things are definitely coming from this. One is, as we said about a year ago in Parliament's debate, that you would like to establish as serious a monopoly as possible for the National University of Public Service, the university which, by the way, is led by the person of trust who, at the same time, appears to be the 21st. Some kind of brilliant lawyer of the century, the National Election Committee, also heads the State Reform Committee and even this National University of Public Service. He's a real polytherapist, but he's a very reliable man. What I can say, ladies and gentlemen, is that the first step of this was precisely seen when the monopoly was granted to the NKE for training in state science. I would just like to quote a paragraph from my own speech to Parliament a year ago. Then, in your place, Secretary of State Kovács, Mr. Secretary of State L. Simon was sitting and did not give a reassuring answer to these points. Here's what I said. I'd like to ask you what's next. That certain jobs can only be filled with this degree? In other words, will only people who are trained in Fidesz's cadre training be in charge of certain administrative positions? For example, I would be very interested to know whether you have such a plan, Mr. Secretary of State, or whether you will consider the lawyers to be worthy of these positions. Or maybe not just lawyers, but other universities, because in the administration of the state, I think that economists are just as needed as people with a degree in medicine. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Well, Mr. Secretary of State, it seems I've been able to make a decision against my will several times. [[Dr. Zoltán Kovács: You are also a polyhistorian.]] Because it came in again a year after we passed this law, what I said here, and what you didn't want to confirm at the time, and neither did any of my fellow members of government. So, again, a monopoly for the N.I.C.E. You set up your own training, your own loyal, reliable training facility, and then require that the state function be fulfilled practically with this qualification. The other thing is that simply logic doesn't really make sense of why these conditions are. I'm telling you, this is the one that comes out, of course, to get the cadre training done, but tell me, please, for example, why a state official who has obtained a scientific degree is exempt from the obligation of state science education. If he, by the way, is leading the hunting authority, then either I say we accept that, say, a person who has completed this training university can do this job without further training in state science, or that he is required to do this course in a consistent manner, because I do not know how well he will understand or how much better he will understand the state administration, let's say, the agricultural professional who has not only completed the agricultural university, but, let's say, he also obtained a PhD degree in the cultivation of some crop. So how much better will he know about state science? He does not need to complete this course, anyone who does not have a PhD degree must complete it. Then what is the reason why, although many prestigious universities, such as the University of Pécs, organise administrative training, you do not accept this as good, only what the NKE organises. In other words, over whom the NKE is babysitting, yes, over whom it is not. These are otherwise recognized courses, and in these universities, I risk more, and I am not mistaken, more qualified instructors do their job than at the National University of Public Service in a full-time job, at least in that faculty. These are the incomprehensible things that, if we do not put behind them, are going to try to force those who work in the public service either before or after the appointment, otherwise these provisions will make no sense in the world. I know, they argued that we have just spoken to Mr. Secretary of State from law universities, and he was right to say that even in our degrees, the term "state science" is not only in law school, it hasn't been in law school for a few years, and I also know that this has been taken out under our administration, but one thing is for sure, given the curriculum, because I went to university and I have been teaching at university for 16 years, I know that nothing has changed. State science training is carried out in the same way at these universities, it is also part of legal education, it cannot be separated from it. You can't separate a constitutional law or even a state theory from a law because, of course, one is based on another. Therefore, if the name is there, if it is not there, those students will receive state science training. Why is it that a student who leaves law school needs an extra four years to take part in public administration, because obtaining a PhD is a minimum of four years, as well as that of the exam, because three practical times, plus roughly - whoever does it the fastest - will do it in eight months - are eight months until he gets his exam. Why should this be, when training is, not to say, of a higher quality than that of the NKE in the framework of state science education or public administration science training? And once again we get back to the fact that there is no other reason for this than that there must be some way to take part in that training, that people can be led to that training, that they must do this training. I think that this is not well, and it is not well, Mr Secretary of State, that, to the best of my knowledge, and on the basis of relatively correct information, I can say or assume - let me say more carefully - that you have not, by the way, conducted any consultations with the university leadership in this circle, namely, neither with the Rectors nor, let us say, with the Dean of Law. I will be curious to know what their views on this proposal will be. Ladies and gentlemen, I will probably ask for more because there were no other provisions involved, so I have managed to reach the point where the establishment of a public service relationship is a problem in 15 minutes, and there is no time for all the other problems, so I will say this in a next speech. It is understandable that we will not be able to support this proposal. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2016-04-27-114	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr Imre Vejkey, the lead speaker of the KDNP Group. You have the floor.
u2016-04-27-115	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, We Christian Democrats, in agreement with the civil Hungarian government, consider it necessary to increase the operational efficiency of the territorial administration and to establish a career path for regional officials, including professional qualifications and experience within the framework of the modern state, in order to create a public office, i.e. to support and encourage the creation of a single government official. Ladies and Gentlemen, In order to achieve this, the T/10267 on state officials was presented to this House. Bill No.1, i.e. in order to create a new regulation from the State Officials' Faculty, which allows the official to serve his country and his fellow Hungarian citizens in the framework of a career model. We consider it important to stress that the introduction of a new regulation for the public officials' faculty should be bottom-up, and we therefore support the launch of a career model for state officials where the restructuring and simplification of the administrative structure has already taken place. [[16.10]] Therefore, as a first step, as from 1 July 2016, as regards persons employed at district and metropolitan district offices, as a second step from 1 January 2017 in respect of officials and administrators at metropolitan and county government offices and, finally, as from 1 January 2018, in respect of those employed in ministries and central government administrations under the control of ministries. Ladies and Gentlemen, On the basis of this, we can say that as of 1 July 2016, the responsibility, responsibility and wages of our fellow countrymen working in 20,000 district offices will change, their salary will increase by 30-50 percent, first of all for those who are in direct contact with customers. Following the above, what is the basic reason for a new state official status CXCIX of 2011 on existing public service officials. the development of a non-legal career-like regulation. As is the T/10267 on state officials. All Hungarian citizens have the statutory right to settle their cases impartially, fairly and within a reasonable time. Ladies and Gentlemen, Today, these burdens appear primarily at district level, given that in the interests of Hungarian citizens, we have brought down a significant part of the cases that concern them to the district level in order to be able to settle as many cases as possible in one place, at a government window, without any specific procedure. It is obvious that this has resulted in the fact that, at district level, the number of cases in district workers has not only increased in primary and exponential terms, but that at the same time the types of cases have become extremely diverse. All of this has posed an increasing challenge for district officials, as in Hungary, more and more district levels are becoming the main and most dense place for administrative activity. For this reason, it is necessary first to meet the needs arising at the district level. Ladies and Gentlemen, This is why the salaries of public officials in the sector should be paid in a career model, as has already been done in teachers, law enforcement and defence workers, health workers, and in the future it will also happen in the case of NAV workers in a short period of time. In parallel with the introduction of the new fixed pay system, a new vocational system of professional qualifications and experience, as well as an evaluation of performance, will be established. The bill introduces a lump sum salary for public officials, CXCIX of 2011 on public service officials. It replaces the system for the setting of salaries. The fixed salary system clearly requires greater responsibility from the employer, while at the same time giving the official the opportunity to receive a salary more proportionate to the tasks and performance performed. The new career path undoubtedly requires those working in the public administration to carry out their duties at a higher level, but in return it provides adequate pay and promotional opportunities. It does everything to ensure the highest salary increase for civil servants employed at the first level of the public administration, closest to clients, who have worked in the public administration for decades, who have higher education and secondary education. Ladies and Gentlemen, It is clear from the above that all the envisaged provisions have an impact on public competitiveness. The new administrative model, which is still under construction, can be outlined briefly in such a way that while strategic creation remains at the level of ministries, district and government offices will be specifically responsible for implementation. Ladies and Gentlemen, T/10267 on State officials We believe that it can be supported without party political affiliation, since it rejects the system of prey, instead establishing a system of skills and performance promotion, regardless of the official's activities in any political family. The KDNP faction supports the adoption of the bill. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause from the Fidesz ranks.]]
u2016-04-27-116	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congressman Csaba Gyüre, the lead speaker of the Jobbik Group.
u2016-04-27-117	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, We have heard here in the pro-government speeches that only good things have come into this law, and indeed all opposition parties here must stand up hard to do so, and this must be supported. I'm sure there's some forward-looking elements in there, and I don't dispute that. There's obviously such an intention in it, and I don't dispute that, but we have problems with this law, and it's not too little, but it's also about its creation. I think this is a law that affects a very large part of Hungarian workers, not as workers in employment, but as civil servants in a public service relationship. I would think that the primary and most important thing in any such case is that the people you're talking about should be consulted with them. I can't say we didn't have a meeting, because the government can tell us that, but please, we agreed, the SEC met several times, we agreed, we discussed it. There is also truth in it, but I would ask whether this bill, which is before us now, is the bill, was this in agreement. Were you in agreement with anyone? Of course, the five parties were theoretically yesterday; yes, I'll get to that in a moment, but I'm still at the unions. This variation has not been agreed with any trade union, but has already come up as a plan. Indeed, before that there were two drafts, they met for both drafts, discussed them, there were debates, there were conciliation forums, and after that came not the synthesis of this, but a completely new one, fundamentally changing the concept of the first two, and this came out. As far as I know, this draft, as I was informed, has not been agreed. We are pleased that there was even a five-party consultation yesterday. But I think the problem here is that this is a very good negotiation, too, but can it be called a negotiation according to the interpretation rules of the Hungarian language, when Minister János Lázár explains that we can actually argue in detail, even amendments, but his basic concept is perfectly fixed, that can no longer be touched. Therefore, the substantive issues cannot be discussed. You can brush the baby a little longer, but that's actually the way it is, either you accept it or you don't. This is a negotiation that, thank you very much, we were there, but we really didn't have any say in any of the essential issues, or we didn't have the right to form. Speaking of which, the biggest problem, and if we go into the details of this, the details of the law, which the trade unions most object to, is that it is incomprehensible why civil servants should be separated. Of course, Mr Secretary of State has said here what your professional opinion is about this, but the professional opinion of the trade unions is that this should not be separated. [[16.20]] We also believe that it would be much easier to regulate civil servants' relations if we treated them in a uniform way, they would be integrated into a single framework, as they have been before, and Kttv. it has been well regulated, well resolved in recent years, and could be dealt with in a uniform way. So it's a little incomprehensible why you had to tear it apart like that. But while we are at it, we have heard the benefits of the four-track salary system at the five-party conciliation, but at the same time we have listened to the disadvantages of this from the trade unions - so who really represent the workers -. I'll tell you, Secretary of State, they really couldn't convince us at the five-party or four-party negotiations on why this four-track system would be good. You said that this would allow for a system of advancement where the employer will be able to reward additional work and additional energy. This may also be in the system, where appropriate. But I think it's Kttv. on the basis of which the employer had the opportunity to list or move ahead, to hijack the wages of workers who were truly devoted and outstanding, so it was clear that their salary could be moved from the middle line. Same goes for the old system. However, what we see is that objectivity will be missing, so the predictability that the system has provided will be missing, and fundamental subjective elements will be included in the system: the subject of the head of the workplace, the employer, will determine the wages of the employees, where they will go. The minimum and maximum amount, which can be paid, who belongs to it, will therefore depend enormously on the employer. And there may also be some where it may not be determined by professional knowledge, professional training, or even by the diligence of the worker, by the diligence of the civil servant. So there will be strong subjectivity here. The Secretary of State also referred to the fact that a large part of the salary supplements will cease to exist, which will be incorporated into the basic wage. We could say that it is good, but I can't say that it's good if the extra salary, let's say, is absorbed into the basic wage, because a lot of people who don't have a language exam, otherwise they wouldn't get it, too. So people will not be inspired to put more on the table so that they can speak more languages, they may have three degrees, and they are also valued, because this is all basically rented, in theory we say that everyone speaks more languages, brings more degrees, so we cannot appreciate the employees. Then another problem with this four-track system is that, in fact, in the worst case, it can bring you a 22-year-old locality, that you will not change your employment for 22 years, because you will be in the same lane, you have no possibility of making any progress, you are listed somewhere, and you will be there for 22 years. We were talking about the fact that pensioners or workers who are about to retire were not sufficiently motivated - this was said at the five - party meeting - and that is how we can get them to do so. I think that it is possible to achieve the exact reverse of it, to reach 22 years of walking in place, and in fact it may be that someone is stuck in a payment department 20 years before his pension, and there is no chance, in fact, that he will have a certain advance, and then everything will depend on his boss whether there is any real progress or not, and that he will be able to really grasp it in the dirt he spoke of, that someone does not want to move forward. They're also part of this narrow four-track system. So, if you don't like someone in charge, you won't see the opportunity to move forward, no matter how hard you get, because the law won't give you a chance, you'll be in the same lane for 22 years or 20 years in the last period. Then there's the problem of low pay. The Secretary of State said that there would be good wage increases, 30-50 percent wage development, and we even heard at the five-party meeting that it could be 60 percent. This would be very nice, and it would be very good, because there are very big problems with the wages of those working in the public administration, which we should see, in fact, that in at least eight years there has not been any increase in their situation, that they have been stuck at this level, and that also means that they have experienced a very serious real wage reduction. A civil servant with a secondary education is today at the bottom of society in terms of his salary, just above the public service workers with a very small location. I think that, at this 8-year-old locality - with which civil servants have been hit by the government in the last six years - there is only a judicial society in Hungary, where there has not been a wage increase for 12 years, where there has been a fall in real wages of nearly 60% by far over 50 percent, so that is almost the level of salary decline for civil servants. That's why it's very important to raise wages. What do we see now? We see that this increase in wages - at least the possibility - will affect some of them and some of them will be stuck. When they have a salary increase, we don't know that, it's completely uncertain, we'll separate the civil servants, it's for one of them, it's not going to be for the other, I could say, it's almost the same as raising the wages of civil servants in one ministry, and it's not going to be increased in the other, it's almost such a level of fragmentation. There's no way I can justify why they should be separated. In the last system, there were indeed big mistakes, because there was one in particular among those with secondary education that, in the worst case, they did not increase their wages for up to 33 years, because they received the guaranteed minimum wage, and their promotion system simply did not allow them to go beyond that, and they practically lived in the minimum wage category. Obviously, that needs to be changed. What does this bill guarantee? How do you guarantee a raise? We can count very well if we count a median, but what we need to see is that, in exceptional cases, there may also be no increase in salaries for someone, or even a very small reduction in salary if the lower limit is required, and the law requires that the lower limit be given. We can count on a median, but what guarantees do we have that the employer will give this to the employees? I'm not sure I'll get it, and in that case, there's gonna be a really big raise at the lower border in some cases, and it's not gonna fit the employees. There is great anticipation, but there will be uncertainty in the bill, and it will be a very high level of vulnerability for all workers. A great vulnerability - I don't want to tell you what to do with the boss, so, oh, my God, let's be so impressed with the boss that we get the higher one or at least the middle one. So it's not gonna go the right way, I feel it. What used to be: in the previous two legislative proposals, he developed two alternatives, and in this he worked together with the union, the government and the ministry. They've developed two alternatives, an A- and a B-alternative. One of the main points was that from HUF 38 650, the civil servant fund goes up to HUF 50 250 for all civil servants. That would have been roughly 30 percent wage improvement. Or the other option is that the 38 650 HUF fund would have remained the same, and the multipliers would have been increased. What would that have brought? It would have led to the fact that it could have been determined exactly how much the wages would increase, so it would have been known that this would indeed represent a 30% increase in wages in the civil servants' sector, even for all civil servants. On the other hand, no one here knows how much you're going to get. We have seen a list that the employees are actually written down, that they are already accounted for, but we do not know how much they are calculated, and this is just a theory, because the employer will tell them the real thing, so they will only have one opportunity to raise the wages, while on the basis of prior consultation with trade unions, which has been accepted for both categories A and B, predictablely in 2016 for the entire civil servants sector 30% wage development, in 2017 another 10 percent, in 2018 another 10 percent, and for four years 5-5 percent. [[16.30]] That would have been what the civil servants would have gotten. This would have satisfied the trade union, and the workers would have accepted it, which would have been a consensus. Compared to this, there is a mule solution, an odd solution, for whom, for someone, it will not be good at all, it is certain that someone will have the opportunity to be good, but who will be good at it and what percentage of them will be, no one can tell you that. Then there are details of problems with the termination of the public service relationship. We have more problems here. Trust in a good administration, it's an elusive thing to fire that man because he's broken his trust in good administration, he's no longer got his trust, we're gonna get him out of there. And what's the bigger problem? There are cases where the worker does not even need to be given the opportunity to present his defence. This is the most shocking thing for me now, when the employer can no longer be expected to give this opportunity to the worker. When we got into law school, the first sentence we were taught in Latin was that audiotur et altera pars - let the other party listen - that this is the most fundamental principle of law since Roman law, thousands of years ago in Europe. Wow, this opportunity to listen to the other party is completely over. And there are a lot of other problems, the problem of redirection, which could be discussed again for minutes, and the possibilities of possible dismissals, but my time is up, so thank you very much for your attention. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2016-04-27-118	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. Since Péter Kónya, an independent Member, has applied in writing for a speech but is not in the room, I cannot give the floor. Now we have two-minute speeches. I give the floor to Secretary of State Zoltán Kovács. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2016-04-27-119	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, I asked for the floor here two minutes after the main speakerial round because Rector Patyi is not present, he cannot defend himself from what my colleague Bárándy said. I think that my fellow Member has given the rector an unworthy word. The rector in the administration is a respected authority, I myself, who worked with him in some cases in the Committee on State Reform, can confirm the same. And I think that calling the training of the National University of Public Service a course is not really fair either. It is also unfortunate to put the law and the National University of Public Service against each other in terms of training, because this is not going anywhere. I do not want to bring you here, my dear fellow Member, what kind of cadre training your predecessor's party has created - because it has also been said that the National University of Public Service is a cadre trainer of Fidesz - it has indeed created a cadre training, by the way, called Foxi-Maxi University. I think that whoever did that could be the leader of those who didn't do it, and in the spirit of contrastivity, he couldn't be the leader. So I do not think that it is unacceptable as a protégé, but I must say this both for the sake of the Rector, for the protection of a broad-minded, educated man, and for the training of his training place, the National University of Public Service. Allow me, since he is not here to do this. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-04-27-120	Dear Parliament, Mr Imre Vejkey, KDNP, applied for a two-minute speech. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2016-04-27-121	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, I also consider the political attack by our fellow Member Gergely Bárándy against the National University of Public Service to be unworthy. I'd like to emphasize college here. Zoltán Kovács, my fellow Member, Minister of State, defended Mr András Patyi, Rector; I think that I am now standing up for the National University of Public Service, especially if we know that in 2006 the MSZP-SZDSZ government abolished the education of state science, but in particular the Minister of Culture Bálint Magyar ordered that, in the future, in law universities, instead of teaching in state and legal science, only legal science education. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-04-27-122	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, As no one has applied for a further two-minute speech, no one has applied in writing for a speech, there will now be further speeches by its representatives. I give the floor to Congressman György Szilágyi, Jobbik Group.
u2016-04-27-123	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, The Law on State Officials aims to introduce a new type of legal relationship in the Hungarian public service. This new relationship is spookily similar to the 2011 CXCIX you created. Government officials, civil servants and administrators as defined in the law on civil servants. The justification of the law does not contain any substantive provision for a distinction between the legislation currently in force and the new legislation envisaged. If we look at the text of the bill, we cannot be overlooked by its preamble: it is intended to determine the justification and purpose of the norm. The wording of this preamble is virtually the same as in the Act on Public Service Officers currently in force by the author. In the general justification of the bill, the author states that the bill before us is only the first step in changing the relationship between the staff of the government agencies, but this will be extended to staff employed in the ministries and the central government administrations under their direction from 1 January 2018. The reasons for this or the need for it are not mentioned in the bill. The 2010 CXXX on legislation. Law No. 2 Article 4a clearly and clearly provides for the fundamental requirements of legislation. Let's look at these requirements first. 2. Paragraph (1): the legislation must have a regulatory content that can be clearly understood by the recipients. This requirement is not met by the bill, as it cannot be interpreted in itself, it is repeatedly referred back to the current Act on the Law on Civil Service Officers, which is currently in force. Article 2 Paragraph 4 (b): when drafting legislation, it must be ensured that the legislation is integrated into the legal system. This requirement is not met by the bill, since its relationship to the work of public service workers is settled by a very extensive law regulating the relationship in detail, which is not in line with the new bill. Then we'll keep looking. 3. §: the same or similar conditions of life must be regulated in the same or similar way, preferably in the same legislation at the same level of regulation. That's what the law says. This requirement is not met by the new bill, as it is practically artificially distinguishing between those who are currently in the same situation, since the employment of those serving among them should take place at any point in the country, in any office of the state, along uniform principles and expectations, and must take place. Let's keep moving. Article 3 The second sentence of Section 2 of the Act states that regulation must not be unduly parallel or multi-level. This provision is expressly infringed by the bill, since the author himself acknowledges in the explanatory statement that parallel regulation is being established, so you acknowledge it. In the text of the bill... [[To intervene:]] Secretary of State, if that's the law, if by law, as I said, by law, this is the 3rd law. It is a provision in Section 5 and you acknowledge in the explanatory memorandum that this regulation will be a parallel and multi-level regulation, then, in our view, this provision expressly infringes the law cited. [[16.40]] In the text of the bill, I was able to discover only one substantive change, namely, in terms of wages, which many people have already mentioned before me. The issue of salaries is, in particular, a key issue for those employed in the public service, which is indisputable. This issue has been fairly addressed by the Fidesz governments in recent years, but this is not done by creating a new parallel law. Ladies and gentlemen, This practice also does not meet the most basic professional requirements of legislation. The design of a wage-setting intention and a predictable career model, as you have said, in the draft bill, is in itself a matter of support and praise, but compulsive legislation, without any professionalism and reasonable consideration, is not the solution. The relations to be settled in the bill should be or should be settled by amending the current Act CLXXXIX of 2011 on Public Service Officers. And if this law were to be touched by the government, it would also be an excellent opportunity to make a truly comprehensive and truly improving amendment based on four years of practical experience in the law, drawing experience from the past four years. There could also be a change in the law, meaningless, incomprehensible to me, why you chose this method, and why you chose this method, as I said, it could also be called a legislative nonsense with the criteria I have just read here. That is why I would like you to answer that question and give us meaningful answers to these questions. Thank you so much for listening. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2016-04-27-124	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Mr Gergely Bárándy, MSZP Group, will now take the floor. You have the floor.
u2016-04-27-125	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, On the one hand, I would like to continue what I have been forced to do to stop what is wrong with this bill, but first, allow me to reflect on the speech by my fellow State Secretary, on the one hand, and my fellow Member Vejkey, on the other. First of all, I would like to say that I had no intention of offending or hurting the rector. If that were the case, I'd apologize too. If I remember correctly, I used that word, but I may be mistaken that he is a polyhistoric or Renaissance man, and I hold that now, honourable Members. [[Dr. Zoltán Kovács: You have to look in a text environment.]] And maybe there's not even a degrader in this, maybe there's a little cynicism. I think that it is not necessarily a good thing that a person holds the rectorship of Hungary's largest state university at the same time, that he is the chairman of the State Reform Committee, and that he is the chairman of the National Election Committee at the same time, apart from the fact that I think these three functions are incompatible, because as a member of the State Reform Committee he does have loyalty to the Hungarian Government, until then we should say that he should remain independent as Chairman of the National Election Committee. I'm sure these two are incompatible, but I'll tell you the truth, not by me, but by my better colleagues. So, between you and me, it's too much. The fact that someone is a rector of a major university, president of the election committee and president of the state reform committee, I think that's an exaggeration. Maybe they could've found other great lawyers on the government side. If you can't, I'd be happy to say conservative and excellent lawyers who would otherwise be capable of doing similar positions and tasks. That's all I was referring to when I spoke about Rector Patyi. And the fact that the National University of Public Service is a cadre school, I do maintain it, my fellow Members. This political profession is also relatively narrow, and the scientific profession is not wider than that. Well, if you're a little bit involved in this, you can hear the information, and the loyalty to the government on the N.I.C.E. is what you're looking for. And I dare say that here, in front of the Parliament's plenum. I didn't see much of an N.K.E. instructor or someone who teaches there who wouldn't say that. [[Dr. Zoltán Kovács: Mónika Lamperth!]] Some people are bothered by that, some people are less bothered by that, but that's true, I think it's a matter of fact. If there is a university operating in this atmosphere and you are aggressively trying to involve virtually everyone who lives and moves in public administration or wishes to be here in the future, it is at least a basis for mistrust in my view. These forms of training could also be brilliantly carried out at other universities. For example, if I really do not go further, practically all of the legal universities would be able to conduct such a training, even because if I look at the overlap between the teaching staff of the legal universities and the teaching staff of the NKE, then the joint set is very large. So it would probably be possible for this other law university to teach at the NKE, say, part-time teachers, as it does at the NKE or the NKE training. So, so much for the University of Public Service. One more point: state science training and education at law universities would have been abolished by anyone, which is simply not factually true. Congressman Vejkey, I would like to adjust you on this. It's not in the title of the diploma, but nothing's changed in the course. Is it important that this is in the title of a diploma, or is it important that these subjects are taught otherwise? For example, churches do not have representation in the Hungarian Parliament today, because - just in order to get home to you - the committee is called a judicial committee. He used to be called the Human Rights, Minority and Religion Committee. Today, it's called a Justice Committee, but it also functions as a representative of church affairs. It's the same with law universities. The fact that the name giving a degree in law or law and not a degree in state and law is simply a game of words. By the way, if you look at the curriculum of these universities, you are still in a high number of high hours, let's say, the law and state philosophy, as I understand it, at ELTE, it is even a state exam subject, which is undoubtedly about state sciences, and, let's say, most of the constitutional law is also about state sciences. That is why, in the debate a year ago, we said that it is simply impossible to separate the course of state science from the course of law, because it is connected on a thousand lines, and, let us say, constitutional law is as much a part of state science as it is a part of legal science. But I do not wish to open this debate again. I just wanted to say, or to make it clear to you, that it is not the case that state science education at law universities has ceased. It's that you're out of your degree, and you're clinging to it when you're trying to create an independent course in state science, and you're bringing in a monopolistic NKE. [[Dr. Imre Vejkey: My fellow Member, he only gives a degree in law, not in state science.]] I'm sorry, I didn't understand what my fellow Member yelled at me. [[Dr. Imre Vejkey: My fellow Member, he only gives a degree in law, not in state science. The president's ringing the bell.]] That's what I've been trying to tell you. That's what I've been trying to say. That's what I've been trying to say. Let us move past this, fellow Members, and I am trying to focus more on the law, but I had to answer those points. What my fellow Member Gyure referred to and I can say a lot of things in short terms, because my fellow Members have also explained more than enough what the trade unions have said about this proposal. To the best of my knowledge, it was not the KÉSZ, but at the meeting of the CÉF, the trade unions asked that the government not present this proposal to the Parliament; whichever version was the subject of discussion at the time, but they asked that it should not be submitted to the Parliament, because they said that the combined introduction and application of the two laws would involve enormous extra work and administration, and would cause a great deal of problems. What remains to be an excuse, and I am now just pointing out some points, because once again, I do not wish to repeat my fellow Members, but the kind of vulnerability that I was talking about, that is exactly what Mr Gyüre spoke about. About being able to move, about the possibility of being transferred, about how we practically got there to say that after 20 years of employment, the worker goes in, and overnight he sees on his computer monitor that he doesn't have to come in tomorrow; without anyone talking to him, anyone would have listened to him and the rest. So that's the level we managed to get to. To this I say that you want to achieve loyalty by simply making the public sector, the civil servants, civil servants, government officials and state officials, to the fullest extent possible, whatever we call them. And the feature of public service careers, Mr Secretary of State, was that it provided a lower demand for life compared to the competitive sphere, but it brought much more security and predictability and provided the person who had chosen this career. [[16.50]] I would also like to say as a flash - and Mr Gyüre has spoken about this for a long time, and I do not wish to repeat it - that the law does not provide an attractive way of moving forward, so it would be a significant step backwards in this field compared to the current legislation; the competence and experience acquired on the course is virtually not recognised as value, or at least it is hard to see how it recognises it as value. The draft abolishes the concept of a salary base, thus eliminating an important pillar of the planned wage increase. The author would make a significant change in the wages of those concerned, which should therefore be determined in the future between the lower and the upper limits of the careers bands. This would put an end to the current practice in which public officials' salaries consist of a basic salary and its additions and allowances. It's not necessarily for safety. Finally, in general, the creation of a single employment relationship for government-led bodies, a system for the promotion of employees, which was a target set in 2011, has not been achieved, and this has apparently failed. The explanatory statement of the 2011 Public Service Officers Act also states:. The priority objective of the Act is to stabilise and standardise the existing fragmented public service legislation, which has largely lost its internal coherence, and to incorporate the rules of the new Code of Work that also govern public administration personnel into the public service legislation. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I go on:. The single regulation governing public service officials requires that independent, separate, uniform and consistent with the value-oriented nature of the public service be produced from officials working for the public service. What's happening now, Mr. Secretary? Further fragmentation of a fragmented system is now being dismantled in Parliament. As long as it's Qttv. it has moved towards the job-based system at least, now it seems that the level of organisation is at the heart of the employer's intention: progress is never automatic, not even in the time spent, always has to be met; the fate of the state official is in the hands of the employer, the law is virtually non-protected; the state official can receive a salary at the lower limit of his grade. So that's what's guaranteed, all the others are definitely not. In summary, although many more details could obviously be raised here, these are the points and these are the legal directions - let me put it this way and so let me put it a little more generally - which make the law before us unacceptable. The truth, Mr Secretary of State, is that, of course, it is always possible and worthwhile to discuss and agree amendments, but in the event that, if Minister Lazarus' attitude in this regard is that what concerns the merit of the proposal, its backbone, does not think that it can be touched, he does not think that, if appropriate, it could be modified even on the basis of reasoned proposals or justified criticisms, we also feel that further discussion is completely unnecessary, I will say this frankly and in advance. So it is to negotiate that I should give an example of whether it should remain in it to be exempt from further study obligations, who has a scientific degree - only because I mentioned it - that we are going to make a difference in this, frankly, that does not make the law acceptable to us. If this is not the purpose of the negotiation, but only to correct a few mistakes, I am very happy to convey our thoughts beyond this to you, but we will not be able to achieve in the bargain that we support this law. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2016-04-27-126	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congressman Csaba Gyure, Jobbik Group. Here you go.
u2016-04-27-127	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, There were only a few thoughts left in me from my previous speech, which I had to finish in the absence of time, and I would like to talk about two more things. I lost the word at the redirect. Even before, when we discussed the Fundamental Law, we argued a lot about whether it was good or not. The Jobbik Movement for Hungary, and I recall that the other opposition parties were completely united in the fact that no one could accept it, because it is necessary to see the civil servant who is appointed to a job, a given job, and three days before him in writing that, say, he will work elsewhere for a period of six months, in another job, which I think is a weight where more brakes should be placed, and the public service worker should have more guarantees and be in a better position. So this will also strengthen the vulnerability that we have discussed here before. One more thing, the question of dismissal. What I like is that when there are five-party negotiations, the Secretary of State or the minister will obviously never talk about the dismissal of the workers in his sector and that is what we plan to do. And how interesting it was that there was talk of dismissal here too, in the five-party consultation, but not in the civil servants' sphere, but in the pedagogical sphere, where Minister Lazarus said that in Hungary the number of teachers is well above the average of OECD countries, the number of children and the number of students is falling, so obviously sooner or later a downsizing will be necessary in this sphere. While Minister Sándor Pintér said yesterday at the Ministry of Interior that the average number of civil servants and public service workers in Hungary is much higher than the EU average, it is well above the level of twenty-one ratio, that is, if you look at how many there are, then you are among the first, and the Hungarian economy can't take it this way. Moreover, Minister Lazarus had previously levitated a larger number of redundancies. So this shows that the public sector is facing a major downsizing, whether in the case of civil servants or teachers, or in the case of public service workers. We feel that this law does not provide adequate protection, because obviously it is not in the government's interest to represent the interests of workers in this case, although I think that impartiality would be better. [[President Tamás Sneider, Vice-President of the National Assembly.]] But we have seen that since 2010 the Jobbik Movement for Hungary has been here in the Hungarian Parliament, that government efforts are to ensure that workers have as little rights as possible in whatever sphere they work in. So even among the rights that workers have managed to win by 2010, whether we are talking about the Labour Code or about public service workers, we always see workers in an increasingly vulnerable situation. And unfortunately, this is clearly seen as an attempt to grant the State additional rights vis-à-vis public service workers. While the other case cannot be explained in this way when it oversaw the interests of employers, the interests of a much stronger employer vis-à-vis employees in the workers covered by the Labour Code. So unfortunately, this process can also be found here, and we cannot agree with these processes to a great extent, which makes the Hungarian worker vulnerable, whether the public servant or the employee. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]] [[17.00]]
u2016-04-27-128	Welcome, fellow Members. I do not see any other speakers, so I give the floor to Mr Secretary of State to respond to what has been said.
u2016-04-27-129	Mr President, Welcome to the new President of the House. Dear fellow Members, If the fellow Members had been here before 2010, they would be facing what I am now. Where Csaba Gyüre sits, he sits, if I remember correctly, László Sándor. Where Daniel Z. Carpathian sits, Alexander the Great sat somewhere. Then, where Zoltán Magyar sits, Mr. Pasternák or Congressman Filló sat. So, of course, there was no negotiation, because the entire union movement was sitting in the socialist faction. Now, in part, the same people are outside, but the discussion has taken place in a way that has taken place in a textual way, we have adopted a number of proposals from the interest representatives, and we can also say that there has been a specific expert consultation. And the proposals for expert discussions were included in the bill. Of course, the government's responsibility is not for the trade unions, but for the government. And it's not the trade unions that write the legislation, it's the government that's putting it in front of Parliament. For now, that's the order, that's what happened. It's the government's proposal, not the trade unions'. Of course, trade unions are obviously doing the right thing on their side, when they tell us, by the way, to give as much money as possible to everyone; because if a trade union official didn't say so, they would probably replace him. This is the alpha and omega of the negotiation, by the way. If it wasn't 30 percent right now, but 50 or 70, and another 100,000 employees, why not 120? Because otherwise, they wouldn't be doing their job. So much for negotiating. The other thing that Mr Szilágyi raised is parallel regulation. Congressman, you are sitting here in Parliament, obviously you know that there is parallel regulation today. In today's public service world, there is a labour code, which is in force in parallel, there is a civil servant law and there is a Kttv. All three are alive. At the central budgetary body, we have employees covered by the Public Employee Act, and thousands, by the way, I'd like to say. Obviously, in the expo, I also told you that there is a parallel at the moment, which is then gradually released. Which means vulnerability, it's a matter of judgment. We say that there is still a rule of law in Hungary, in this rule of law anyone whose interest in the public service is injured can turn to the arbitration panel, and against the decision there he can go to the independent Hungarian court, which can, by the way, re-establish and re-establish his legal relationship. So I think that the redress system is the same as before. In addition, a significant part of the warranty rules in Kttv still exist for our employees, let me put it this way, in the interest of government officials. As far as redirection is concerned, and on another point, let me reflect on my fellow Member, Csaba Gyüre: we are not sending people to the Kamchatka Peninsula, but from one district to another, 15 or 20 kilometers in Hungarian. So I have to say, within a county, from one walk to another, where the workload increases. Let me give you an example, so that we can understand the issue of redirection, and I will give you today's well-known example. There will be a new slaughterhouse in the south, and there will be a lot more veterinarians, Trichinella investigators and veterinary assistants, because there will be a slaughterhouse in the agriculture to which to transfer staff, even if only temporarily. As far as the public service is concerned, who will earn what we will continue to claim and say, and we can also ensure the value of this inflation follower that they are looking for an average of 30 per cent. Obviously, the salary of the lowest wage will increase in a high percentage, and the higher will receive less, less of this average. But it's not the first thing that determines it, it's the work and the performance. Today, in the current system, if you carve your pencil, turn on your computer and just work so much that you can't quit it, it can never be removed. And here, performance will determine in the system that those who work will earn more, those who don't work will earn less. So you can change it, not a bone-in, rigid system, but a much more flexible system, where, by the way, there is a serious management responsibility, a benchmarking system. By the way, it is possible for a young person who has not been in the system for 20-30 years, but for 5-8-10 years to get a higher wage, to make more progress than in a previous bone-boned system. This is the backbone that Minister Lazarus spoke of at the five-party meeting. And before anyone gets the wrong idea, make no mistake about dismissals, he didn't talk about the long-term system the day after tomorrow, which is what the task is, and what is needed to complete the task needs to be adjusted. In our case, what we are talking about now, by strengthening the walks, there will be an increase in numbers, not a reduction in numbers. So this is how you look at the proposal and what it says. Where there is an excess number, it can either be transferred within the administration system, either in the framework of a programme of a Career Bridge to the enterprise sphere, or in the state administration, so to speak. As regards the issues raised, I would also like to inform you of the exceptions to the exemption. The Kttv. He also provides for this today, and I would also like to say that those who receive a substitute today, say, a replacement language, will be included in his wages, not happy-happy, so to speak, because it is fair to those who receive a substitute for the language for which they are paid. There are certain language areas, aren't there? Today, by the way, everyone who has a higher education has a degree, if he has passed the language exam. So in this case, it can be enforced here. I think that I believe that the debate and polemia about the National University of Public Service is unworthy of the present situation. No one claims that there is no education in state science in law school, but it is also a strange thing why the state science issue has otherwise been removed from the degree if the subjects have not changed. This is an interesting question, it was a decision in 2006, it can be restored if, if we think so, the person who has the power to decide or to decide. But I think that talking about a Hungarian higher education institution as some of the honourable fellow Members here have done, I think it is unworthy. The questions raised include the fact that we cannot convince you that this is a good law. I think it might be our fault if we can't convince you to do this, but if you're convinced by the trade unions that this is wrong, and I have to say, maybe it's your unaccounted behavior and it's your fault. [[17.10]] Dear fellow Members, Overall, I can say to the questions raised - I still have a short period of time - the important part of this bill is that there will be a wage increase, a significant number of wage increases, an even more significant wage increase for low-skilled people, and the four classifications will determine progress, the essence of which will be determined by work, task, competence and responsibility. So we're going to build a new system with this legislation, and we're going to have a new training system, a continuous training. So it won't be that someone gets a law degree and lives in a job for 40 years that he can stay there with that law degree. We believe that continuous training is necessary, because we are in a serious legislative change environment, because society is changing, social conditions are changing, and that legislation needs to be adapted, and in some respects we must anticipate it, and that must be known and applied by those working in the executive power of the state. That is why state science education is necessary. In our view, the National University of Public Service is best suited to organising, organising and conducting this. In total, everyone, together with the district heads, the government commissioners and trade unions, supported the bill's proposal to raise wages. And in the details, there's obviously going to be a debate, and there's going to be a debate. The practice will produce the flaws of this, which can be modified as appropriate, because it is not a law carved into stone. We think, if necessary, we can obviously make a move on this. I think this is for the benefit of the workers, promotes the effectiveness of the work, puts the responsibility of the managers even more to the fore, and does not make workers vulnerable, because the redress system remains as it has been. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-04-27-130	Ladies and gentlemen, The general debate is hereby closed. The amendments may be submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. We have reached the end of today's agenda. It is now time for the speeches after the agenda. First, MEP Dániel Z. Kárpát said: "How much longer? It's an address. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2016-04-27-131	Mr President, Dear House, The title of my post-meeting speech could have been, however, that, in the coming weeks, we would be talking a lot about what kind of national strategic fates the government is failing to address, correct, while, for example, it separates up to ten times or more of the previous amounts for its own propagandaistery or for its own communication purposes. It can be said that in a situation where the rate of population loss increased from 35,000 to 40,000 - once again, on an annual basis - from 2014 to 2015 - there is absolutely nothing reflected in the budget submitted by the government that could lead to Hungary's demographic turnaround and that would really be strategically able to prevent the disaster that is unfolding before us. After all, this disaster leads directly to the degeneration of the economy, the rebellion of the contributors, and the phenomenon that clearly leads to the collapse of funds linked to the various social security systems. When we talk about the rebellion of contributors, we are not talking about civil disobedience movements at all, but about the fact that, in this amount and weight, the contributors - so much less than they should - will simply not be able to support, keep alive at the level we know and are now familiar with, the systems without which fair conduct is impossible in Hungary. The Hungarian economy should therefore be set on a path that enables us to ensure that predictable health care, predictable pension systems and predictable living conditions are available in a sustainable way, even if we do not like this word very much, because it does not express what we want, but in a sustainable way. This is where the huge difference between the Fidesz-KDNP and Jobbik emerges, as Jobbik has proposed not only to reduce the VAT content of basic foods to at least 5 per cent, but because of the catastrophic situation mentioned above, we have also proposed a reduction in the VAT content of child rearing articles on numerous occasions. Obviously, it is not possible to expect a population turn in a country that taxes both childbearing and child rearing the most brutally throughout Europe, since there is no 27 percent VAT rate for these articles anywhere in Europe, in Hungary alone. We finally got there - to say some positive things about the upcoming draft budget, in particular with regard to the debate on it - that the government will, in the light of three to four product products for the VAT reduction, make some reduction in the average consumer basket, i.e. 6 to 7 percent of the consumer basket for products purchased by ordinary people. According to professional calculations, the total value of this reduction is not equal to only a half-percent or 0.75 per cent overall VAT reduction, so it is very far from what Jobbik would like in a full way. What we see is that what the government is proposing now, broken down by one year, could provide families with as many benefits as Jobbik's full VAT cuts could in one month. So this is the gap between us. And we also see that a full reduction in VAT would not shake the Hungarian budget, because it would generate a great deal of unexpected budget revenue from numerous positive impacts. That is why we are confused about why the government's budget in such a disaster situation, population, public health and dehydrated economic disaster, is so timid, while spending several times the communication of its own perceived or real successes, as it has done so far. He doesn't really want to ease people's daily burdens, even though he could be in line with Jobbik's package. And to mention one more factor that will be taken in every budgetary debate: the priority support for guided reproduction processes, the priority support for the so-called flask baby programme, Jobbik will be determined to demand through several fellow Members until there is a substantial shift, since in the middle of a population disaster, it is our duty to seize every opportunity. It is therefore untenable that, as long as Hungary pays the British farmers a refund as a British correction, it is untenable that until the interest burden of the public debt has been reduced to a noticeable extent, it will not come to one and the most important factor: the Hungarian family and the arrival of the desired Hungarian children. Jobbik will do everything in its power, and it will go to a spiritual-spiritual war to ensure that the budgetary resources that belong to the Hungarian families can actually go there rather than be separated into government propaganda steels. Thank you for your attention. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2016-04-27-132	At the next and final part of the agenda, MEP Zoltán Magyar came forward:. Let's take a look at the facts instead of the double-talk. It's an address. You have the floor, Congressman. [[17.20]]
u2016-04-27-133	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Fellow Members! Here, in recent weeks, the specific numbers of agricultural and rural development applications and grants in 2015 have been revealed, and the principles of the allocation of funds have been revealed. Although the government can no longer hold bad negotiations on the former MSZP-SZDSZ governments, we see that they follow the same principle and continue the same world. This is how 76 percent of the tender money was awarded to top 10 percent of the beneficiaries in Hungary last year. [[Z. Carpathian Daniel: Jesus, Mary!]] It is very important to stress that reality is radically opposed to the government communication that we have heard from week to week between the walls of this House or at any host event. But to say not only the dry facts here at all times, allow me to read a letter that has arrived in my electronic mailbox today, and which illustrates well that behind the specific figures that we read here in order, what life situations are happening and what these actually result in. Mr. Zoltán Magyar! I apologize for bothering you with my letter. I would like to say here that, of course, no one is bothering me with letters of this kind, and I welcome them with great pleasure, as this is the best indication of the real situation in the countryside today. I am a young woman from Szolnok County, who lives in the countryside, my partner and I are farming, we farm our own land together on nearly 20 hectares. We also do livestock, almost everything: sheep, pigs, cattle, poultry, rabbits. Last year, we started our rabbiting, thinking that this could have been the sure thing that could have created stability in our lives. We set the mothers, which grew to my heart in a year, the time has come to start breeding, and then the small farmer will be sentenced to an end. They're giving rabbit farmers two more acquisitions, and we're not gonna fit into this anymore. What am I gonna do with about 90 rabbits? Of course, this is not just my obstacle, this is the whole region here, the problem of half the country. They're forcing us to sell the established stock of mothers, and they're totally shutting us out, small farmers, saying we don't need the rabbit. If there was a problem with the quality of the rabbit stock purchased so far, it would be more appropriate for small farmers to classify the animals as to whether the offspring of breeding mothers meet the requirements of the meat plant and, for example, should not take over animals below 2,5 kilograms. After all this, what can a small farmer do? What's his main image? There is no demand, no purchase, the pig does not have to live or live for such a small amount of money that we sell crops instead, we need a place for domestic slaughter, although there is an idea, and we may be able to make salami someday. Cattle farming also has an uncertain future. We have six heifers, but the milk should be taken over for 65 forints. What's it gonna be? Should we hold it? Shouldn't we? We've got ideas here, I can see a way out of making cheese, but the time that this stock is set up is still a lot. Sheep farming doesn't pay for it either: it requires a small number of feeds, with little income, which comes only from the delivery of lamb. and let's go back to the rabbit, because the letter writer asks if the acquisition can be restored. Will anyone else need it? All in all, there should also be a complete transformation in agriculture, over which is a huge pink cloud, with only an improved trend and model mothers. People in the city often don't really know how hard it is for people who live in it. It's hard to make the right decision. Although we won't give up as long as we can, we try, but in a malfunctioning system, it's hard for a person to change such big things, but I believe they can. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm That's what the letter said. I was hoping to tell you frankly that we might be able to get a meaningful answer from someone from the government, say, the competent secretary of state, but if nothing else, I trust that we will get the answer in writing; not for myself, but, above all, so that the letterwriter and family farmers with similar problems can finally get an answer, so that once we can distribute HUF 740 billion to support for agriculture and rural development in Hungary in one year, why is this amount only available to the richest, capital interests, and not to those who are also mentioned in this letter. I encourage them not to give up, hold on, and we trust that from 2018 a stand-up Jobbik government will indeed serve the interests of the Hungarian people in the country. Thank you for the opportunity, Mr. President. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2016-04-27-134	Ladies and gentlemen, We have reached the end of the speeches after the agenda. Thank you for your work. We'll continue our work next Monday at 11:00. Meeting day's closed. [[Meeting ended at 5:23 p.m.]]
