u2016-07-20-0	[[The people in this room stand up and greet the voters' community. When the chairman of the meeting takes his seat, the people in the room will sit down.]] Good morning. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to welcome you all with a warm welcome today. This is the opening of the Parliament's summer special session. I would like to inform you that, in the chair of this meeting, you will be Signor Dezső and Lajos Szűcs. I welcome all our dear guests and all those who are monitoring our meeting today. The pre-meeting speeches will follow. Mr Sallai R. Benedek, Member of the LMP Group, spoke before the agenda, with the title "The Twilighting Government". Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2016-07-20-1	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Members of Parliament present! During today, the National Assembly could only address the issue that could test how Fidesz-KDNP is related to the values of the created world, to the created life, and how it relates to the values that affect our daily lives. Unfortunately, Fidesz-KDNP or Fidesz does not respect this meeting very much; there is an ex-SZDSZ, there is an ex-MDF, there is KDNP, but the Fidesz fathers are not very visible that they want to discuss environmental culture with us. [[Dr. Lajos Szűcs is signaling with his hand.]] Which would be very, very useful, because in the last few years, when we look at the activities of the past years around the country, we see practically a continuous trend. Because of the Water Olympics, protests started in Győr, because there they are trying to wipe out a whole Danube flood forest in order to create a bleachers next to an oar complex. Near Villány, Villánykövesd, the forest was cut down for a hotel investment; we are talking about Szigliget. Szolnok, Mezőtúr, everywhere we look, the Fidesz city councils have no respect for the green surface, the environment that determines our daily lives as part of our nation. And obviously, the question arises about the luxurious behavior that is shown every day, with which you have no respect for the green surfaces, life, the communities living there, what value your government considers to be. Is that the civic value, or is that the Christian value, or is it a national value to cut down trees? Obviously, if we get here, we need to get to the capital, because perhaps the greatest demand would be here, where a two million-year-old human population is trying to raise a next generation in a good quality of life and raise children to see something from how to live and relate to the created world that will determine their lives. Unfortunately, this is not what the capital is doing, and the government is interfering with this, because the kind of priority government investment, such as the Liget project, is pushing city leaders in a fundamentally opposite direction. For example, Prague has 5.8 percent green surface, Vienna 4.4 percent, Berlin 5.5 percent. But have you ever heard of a program in London, like Green Park or Hyde Park, or Central Park in New York? Do they know about that in the 21st century? In the century, where the direction would be to reduce green surfaces in a built environment in the capital city? Give examples of this. You will see that there is virtually no, because this world should have taught you and taught mankind that our existing values and green surfaces should be protected. But that is not what is happening, and we face every day how these programmes threaten our remaining values. In the Liget project, if we have come to the point that there is no way in which we can see the cutting-up of trees of civil, national, or Christian value, then we can clearly see that your government could again represent some economic interest, because it is once again placing them above the interests of the people. Unfortunately, this is not the case either, or it is not, unfortunately, because no statement proves that the Liget project and the museum quarter would have a substantial economic impact, it does not prove that cultural tourism would have a greater positive impact, since that one million plus tourist is transferred from other museums. And from this point on, it is a question of how a law represented by a fallen Secretary of State, represented in Parliament by Mr. L. Simon at the time, can still be legally in force today in a way that conflicts with a clear, violent social resistance. You promised in 2006 that you would govern without becoming a government of violence. Compared to this, what we see in the Liget is fundamentally disproved and, with similar events, it prevents civil protests in order for citizens to exercise democratic rights. What you are doing with this project is obviously against common sense, because neither cultural tourism requires them nor the environment of those living here. Obviously, you can say that this is only oppositional warfare, but if you look at the resolution of the Hungarian Urbanist Society, which said that the harmonious and sustainable development of Budapest requires that individual plans and priority investments be aligned with the long-term development concept adopted by the capital. During the development of the cultural establishment network, the primary objective should be to exploit the historical, historic and unused building stock, and to rehab brownfield areas. The museum grove project is contrary to the above objectives, and we therefore recommend that it be suspended and that the museums be re-established. "The Hungarian Urbanist Society," said, in order to take a professional position. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] I call on the government to withdraw the relevant legislation of the museum project and to rethink the concepts in this regard, to remove it from the list of priority investments and to relocate it. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2016-07-20-2	Thank you very much, Congressman. I'm asking who the government's answer is. [[For signal:]] Secretary of State Bence Rétvári. Here you go, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor.
u2016-07-20-3	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, As I understand it, today's debate was put forward by Mrs Timea Szabó, who is not in the Chamber at the moment, as I see it, so she has not yet appeared here on the debate day she proposed. [[Intercoms from the ranks of the MSZP and the independents.]] But in any case, this extraordinary parliamentary session also proves that the Liget case is long ago not about the Liget, it is not about the trees, but it is in a political field, and those who wish to gain some political visibility or to get back into politics with it are those who speak the loudest in the Liget case. You know, honourable Member, as I have heard you here speaking about the Liget, or speaking, if you had spoken like this, say, 110-120 years ago here in Parliament, or not here in this building, but in Parliament, there would be no zoo, no Széchenyi Bath, no Museum of Ethnography, no Millennium Exhibition in the City Park, no Lake City Park, no Ice Rink. And if I had listened to you with a similar rhetoric five years ago here in Parliament, Kossuth Square wouldn't have been renewed the way it is now. Kossuth Square is renewed, it's beautiful, and I think everyone thinks it's an important achievement now. This huge parking lot, which was here in Kossuth Square, has ceased, and Kossuth Square has become the nation's main square. We'd like a similar one in City Park. Make sure there's more green space in the City Park. As you know, this will happen, as the proportion of green surfaces in the City Park increases from 60 percent to 65 percent. Let the trees in City Park be healthier. With this, I think everyone agrees - here I will tell you numbers, how many trees will really need such care, such an update - and besides, there must be an area where people will always be happy to go. You know, the city Park is a special park, because when it was established, it was created with green surfaces and a cultural function at the same time. This is the definition of this park, it is the basis for both of them to have a museum, a bath, an ice rink, a variety of eating options, and also a large green surface where people can relax. Nothing else would and will not happen in the coming years in connection with the development and renovation of the Liget. You often call yourself a green party, an eco-party, and you often say the term sustainable development, which I believe everyone here in Parliament agrees with. On either side, we are all in agreement with sustainable development within the parliamentary horseshoe. The only problem is that your party sometimes forgets the development part of this, and they only claim to have a kind of defiance based position that they are opposed to everything that represents a change, even if the green surface in the City Park grows by 5 percent and the tree stock becomes much healthier. It would be nice if a lot of people could watch out for that. [[8.10]] And what has been happening there in the last few weeks on the part of the Liget Bookers is obviously relishing to many, since a few hundred people are hindering two million people from having a better, more demanding area for free recreation. They protect the decay, the lack of need, which, unfortunately, is characteristic of parts of the City Park due to the neglect of recent decades. All the news is about the aggressive activity of these people there or how they find drug needles or others in City Park. [[Agnes Kunhalmi: That was a lie! Lajos Korózs: You could hardly bring him there!]] It would be better if that space was finally as beautiful as Kossuth Square was built here. I also think it is important that it is also an opinion that you have read, honourable Member, but you know that 80 people who are otherwise respected, because they have done a great job, 80 people have stood up for the Liget project, and 80 people have said that Budapest does need a nice cultural public park to be re-established instead of a neglected public park, as the dreamer had dreamed of a century ago. I also think it is hypocritical, Congressman, that a few hundred metres from the Liget, the expansion of the BVSC swimming pool was there, where seventy-some trees were cut down, and none of the current protesters spoke; they were not there when they cut down ice trees a few hundred metres from there. They were there when it was possible to protest against immigration and protest against government policy in recent years, and it wasn't about green spaces at all, it wasn't about environmental protection, it was about a general gathering place for full-time protesters who were always protesting against everything, and now they're working as a Liget occupyer. [[The intervention of Anita Herring.]] As I told you, 80 percent of the tree stock there needs to be cared for, which cannot be done differently than if the Liget project is implemented and the condition of these trees can be improved. Városliget Zrt. has already spent 400 million forints a year to maintain the green surface there. [[The President shall ring a bell to indicate the expiry of the time limit.]] It's higher than ever before. That is why I am asking you, not with parliamentary political hysteria, but with a calm approach to this issue, to support the expansion of green spaces and cultural opportunities in the Liget. Thank you. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-07-20-4	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, Member Ms Agnes Kunhalmi of the MSZP Group has applied for a speech before the agenda: . That is how you govern TI! It's an address. Congresswoman, please. You have the floor.
u2016-07-20-5	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, Városliget is one of the last large parks of our capital city, Budapest's still functioning lungs, which, with every effort, tries to provide clean air to its inhabitants every day, tries to keep alive the increasingly smogic, dustier and polluted capital, which is increasingly gasping for air. Three quarters of Budapest do not support the installation of Városliget in this form, even if Fidesz tries to prove the opposite with a number taken from the research. Seeing the events of the past few weeks, everyone, opposers and supporters are asking the same questions: why here? Why like this? Why does the Fidesz want the City Park, the last lung in the capital? Isn't there a lot of refurbished, practically thought-out areas in Budapest that can be integrated into cultural development and planning, where they can implement the museum district? Our answer is that they do, but they just don't want to. There is little mention of it, but the buildings of the plan now under way, the huge constructions above and below the surface will completely transform the ground structure below the City Park, the directions of the groundwater, which is easily in the area, i.e. in the Zuglós, in the VI. Annex II to Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 is amended in accordance with Annex II to this Regulation. Circuit houses, buildings, apartments can lead to rocking. The work is carried out on the basis of permits that are not designed for the current plans; asbestos is already falling apart during the transformation, the current destruction is almost dangerous. When we talk about the City Park case, it's not a construction project in itself, it's not a park in itself. It is not a one-off case, but an operating model: a model of a very weak leadership in the capital and a model of an even weaker but more violent government and political behaviour. This whole thing is about a government perception of how the Fidesz government views itself and how far it dares to go against the will of the people. But we know the answer: you see yourselves as rulers of the bald government, who, if there is no other means, achieve their goals with force men. It's not normal to know what kind of hired bald guys are ordering cops and beating up protesters! This story happened at the National Election Office in February: our colleagues wanted to give a referendum initiative, but bald people stopped their way; but some of them were just waiting at the remodeling Fidesz headquarters for the same bald people at a protest. Now bald people in Városliget were waiting for those who expressed the opinion of three quarters of Budapest. Where are we? What's their next move? Maybe next time they'll use the army or the counter-terrorism center just to keep their own power? You know, the hardest part is that their methods are now quoting semi-dictatures and even the Hungarian party time. We hear communism from your benches on a regular basis, and you usually defend yourself by running out of talent, and when you're out of talent, the founders of Fidesz certainly know what it's like to be tapped by power, sending anonymous forcemen and using force. Most of the founders of Fidesz remember it, right? Compared to this, the government of Fidesz produces anonymous bald people every two or three months to ensure government interests by force. It's the bald steering. [[Z. Carpathian Daniel: Na!]] As schools fall apart, hospitals die, people flee our country, you abuse power. The government will tell you nothing but theft of a few money projects. You have no social purpose, no idea, no humanity, no morals, no morals. The urban grove aggression, the emergence of violence, the bald ones show that you're afraid of losing your power, afraid of turning away from you the people you've deceived because they didn't vote for it. They're running away from justice, afraid that the ledger and the handcuffs will catch up with the Fidesz congressmen, and they'll catch up with them. But, you know, Budapest and Hungary know more than that, they can do more and deserve more than you. Thank you.
u2016-07-20-6	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. State Secretary Bence Tuzson responds to the speech before the agenda. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2016-07-20-7	Mr. President. Thank you very much for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and With all due respect, you're putting me in a very difficult position. [[Interview from the ranks of the MSZP: This was the goal!]] because when we start talking about a political vision and talking about a political vision in the Parliament building, I hear the words your newly elected president has said about the political vision of the MSZP, that: "Pass. Now, when we start talking in these circumstances and puffing passwords without specifics, this is a very difficult situation, because it is difficult to react to. Because if we are talking about a vision, we need to raise the country's problems and talk about what problems we are facing now, what problems Hungary is facing. [[Agnes Kunhalmi: Stealing and corruption!]] Let's weigh, let's weigh, Congresswoman. [[Agnes Kunhalmi: Weighting!]] Let's look at what are the most important problems. Today, the country has fundamental problems and basic tasks [[Bangóné Borbély Ildikó: Quite a lot!]] Serious tasks and serious tasks require serious people. [[Agnes Kunhalmi: We need serious politicians!]] And these serious tasks are tasks that have now been challenged by the processes of the world and the world. [[Z. Carpathian Daniel: That's right!]] You must also see that migration is now the biggest problem in Europe. [[Ildikó Bangóné Borbély: What does it have to do with the Liget?]] Let us remember, for a sentence, in Parliament, if we are already before the agenda and have our first speeches now, what has happened in Europe in recent times, and allow me to express my condolences on behalf of myself, the government and the ruling party factions to those who have been victims of various acts of terrorism in the past period. [[Agnes Kunhalmi: You put them on poster! You put them on posters! The president's ringing the bell.]] and express my condolences to the relatives. [[Agnes Kunhalmi: Mr President!]] I think that's something to remember in a parliamentary assembly in a few sentences. [[Agnes Kunhalmi: Shame! Shame!]] The important thing for us is to be able to protect this country. [[Ildikó Bangóné Borbély: Don't wear it.]] protect the daily safety of Hungarian people [[Agnes Kunhalmi: Corruption!]] And let's be clear. [[Ágnes Kunhalmi: Pockets of glass, if it's light!]] Let us be clear that if we are talking about immigration, we need to talk together about the fact that this issue in Hungary, in Europe, also carries a terrorist threat; these two issues must be mentioned together. And if we are talking about a vision, my dear Member: you have said - it still rings my mind - that this issue, for example, does not relate to the issue of immigration in any way to the threat of terrorism. That's what happens when we talk about a vision. [[Nándor Gúr intervenes.]] [[8.20]] If we're talking about a vision, then you're the ones who have been [[Ágnes Kunhalmi: What is the future of rotting schools and rotting hospitals?]] in the European Parliament, they voted in favour of the report on compulsory resettlement. [[Ágnes Kunhalmi: Mihály Varga wants to bring in 250,000 people from Syria!]] You voted for it. So, Madam honourable Member, when you talk about a vision of the future, [[Ágnes Kunhalmi: Mihály Varga, who you want to bring into the country, talk about!]] and he's talking about what to do, and he's saying all kinds of words here in Parliament. [[Ágnes Kunhalmi: Mihály Varga what did he say?]] then I ask you to focus on what is the country's real vision. [[Ildikó Bangóné Borbély: About the Liget, Mr Secretary of State!]] I mean, if we're just talking about farm data, [[Agnes Kunhalmi: Don't talk about that.]] [[Ágnes Kunhalmi: Mihály Varga what did he say?]] then I ask you to focus on what is the country's real vision. (Bangóné Borbély Ildikó: About the Liget, Mr Secretary of State!) I mean, if we're just talking about farm data (Agnes Kunhalmi: Don't talk about that!) , in recent times it has to be seen that it is also a bit difficult for you to talk about the state of the economy (Agnes Kunhalmi: Mihály Varga what did he say?) 'Cause it's about when you left this economy during your administration. [[Interviews in the lines of the MSZP: There is one more minute, say something about the Liget! At the very end, you can say the word Liget.]] 83 percent of public debt, record-breaking unemployment [[Constant intervention in the ranks of the MSZP.]] And indeed, the economy has also fallen to a degree that could not be imagined: 7 percent. [[Intervention in the ranks of the MSZP: Secretary of State, say City Park once.]] Compared to this, international credit rating agencies now recognise how Hungary's performance is increasing, the country's performance is improving, and Hungary is now on the path of the future. [[Bangóné Borbély Ildikó: Bence, 30 seconds!]] Low unemployment rate in Hungary, 5.5 percent [[Interview in the ranks of the MSZP: Back to the future! Like this.]] In addition to the 5.5 percent unemployment rate in Hungary, we must always take into account that if there is even one person who does not have a job in Hungary, this must be taken seriously. [[Ágnes Kunhalmi: Hungary performs better! That's what you say. You're wrong.]] But we must pay attention to the economic processes in Hungary and take seriously what we have done. I don't know if we're just talking about health care. [[Agnes Kunhalmi: Education, too!]] then, does the concept of visitation fee say anything to you, that you have withdrawn HUF 650 billion from this area; and now a salary increase programme has been launched, with more than HUF 200,000, with HUF 207,000 in two steps, for example, doctors' wages. [[Nándor Gúr: You were miserable...]] So the processes are good, there's a vision for the government. It would be nice for you to think about what your vision is. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-07-20-8	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Mr Péter Harrach, Head of the Group of the KDNP, spoke before the agenda on the protection of our environment. Here you go, Mr. Group Leader.
u2016-07-20-9	Mr President, Dear House, There are many aspects in the history of the Liget, ranging from professional ambition to political gain. However, there are the principles of environmental protection; allow me to say a few words about this too. Humanity is the same age as thinking about our environment, and in order not to go further, so did the ancient Greeks when they thought of the harmonious cosmos as its beauty and harmony must also influence human behavior. At the time of the birth of Christian culture, representatives said that this world is left to man by the Creator, that man is not only master of nature, but also responsible owner, who then has to keep this borrowed value in such a way that he can account for it. But in the new age, serious problems began, as man took advantage of nature for his own short-term goals, seeing what became of the waters, the air, the trees, the seas and the rivers, but the health of man was also threatened. This has extracted the resistance that has emerged in the behaviour of radical environmentalists, and that is the difference between radical environmentalists and, let's say, Christian Democrats environmentalists. What's the difference in principle? If we had to express our position briefly, I would say that, seeing the beauty, wealth, harmony of the created world, we have a sense of responsibility. This responsibility awakens the aspects of a good farmer, but we add one very important thing: however beautiful this world is, it becomes even richer by enriching it with its works. In this sense, man must achieve a harmonious unity of culture and nature with his own dignity and rich world, and this harmony gives us what we desire. What do I miss about radical environmentalists? I can see that they have the same attitude as radical environmental pollutants, which means they have one eye. The environmental polluters do not take into account the values and beauty of nature. However, radical environmentalists do not take into account that man is not only a part of nature, but he is also a responsible owner of it. In this sense, in many cases, unfortunately, we have to see that a rare species of bugs may be more valuable in their eyes than humans. When we talk about environmental protection, everything needs to be put in place and evaluated. Let me get back to Project Liget for a moment. The way I see it, when parts of the Liget are like a giant ruin bar today, it has to be fixed. It must be fixed, as has been said, so that there are no fewer trees than there are now, but, preferably, more and the performance of human culture should also appear. And if there is a cultural unity there that shows this harmony, the harmony of human creation and the world of nature, then not only is this a problem, but we should be happy about it. Indeed, let us think that there were great moments in history when Budapest was built, and this happened before the Millennium Ceremony. It is similar to this cultural construction that we are now planning in the Liget during the project. That is why I believe that there is no environmental problem here, but that this is the visualization of the harmonious unit I just told you about. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-07-20-10	Thank you very much, Mr. Group Leader. I'll ask if anyone wants to answer on behalf of the government. [[For signal:]] Yes, Secretary of State István Nagy. I give you the floor. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2016-07-20-11	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear Congressman, I was pleased to hear his principle that we should strive for harmony between the environment and man, the harmony that, if it is not realized, the unity without which this creation cannot be imagined is already disintegrated. We farmers, as we say, have borrowed this Earth and its use from our grandchildren, it is our duty to preserve it, develop it, and deliver it to our offspring in better condition than we have received. [[8.30]] Allow me, with some data, to support what measures the Hungarian Government is taking and how much of our budget is used to make this created world a little better, and to give our grandchildren a much better environment than we have received from our ancestors. According to Eurostat's recent statistical analysis, government spending on environmental protection was on average 0.8 per cent of GDP in 2014 for 28 EU Member States, while in Hungary 1.2 per cent of GDP was used for this purpose and supported by OECD data. The figures of the report on the implementation of the 2014 budget show that there was a performance of HUF 727 billion for the environment at the level of public finances in 2014, which is 2.3 percent of the total consolidated expenditure and exceeds the planned amount by more than HUF 100 billion. The institutional and sectoral objectives of environmental protection were HUF 552.9 billion, which overall increased by 8.5 percent compared to the previous year's performance. The expenditure of the institutions in 2014 amounted to HUF 135.4 billion. I would also like to say a few words about the plans, obviously, because not only past environmental spending is significant, but the government is planning similar developments in the future. The source of the development is mainly co-financed by the European Union, with the contribution of the Hungarian budget. Until the end of the current EU budget cycle, operational programmes, the rural development programme, European territorial cooperation and other international cooperation programmes, as well as other thematic programmes of the European Union, such as Life or Horizon 2020, will have more than HUF 2800 billion in funding for environmental and nature conservation investments. This is further increased by more than HUF 740 billion to be spent on the SAPS greening obligation. A total of HUF 3540 billion can therefore be used to develop the sector in the period up to 2020. In comparison, between 2007 and 2013, HUF 2300 billion was spent on environmental and nature conservation improvements in Hungary under EU and other international programmes. You can see the difference: with HUF 1240 billion more we can spend on this in this cycle. Within the framework of the Environment and Energy Efficiency Operational Programme, 15% of the available EU funds, some HUF 1118 billion, will be used for environmental and energy efficiency purposes, which also indicates the importance of the area. In the field of environmental protection, the Ministry of Agriculture has professional responsibility for nature conservation, waste management and remediation, as well as for the areas on which most investments will focus. In the next seven years, we are planning more than 30 billion for nature conservation. This includes mainly habitat development, conservation interventions, the necessary management infrastructure, i.e. the acquisition of machinery and equipment, monitoring and the development of conservation guard services. The additional source of nature conservation expenditure is the economic development and innovative operational programme, where development can be combined with tourism development. I must say, dear Member, that the harmony between man and his environment is infinitely important, because it creates the harmony in which man and the environment can live. Like every man, every tree, every plant has its rights and opportunities. I must say to you that each of them must create the opportunity for the created environment to serve man's need to live in harmony and peace, to feel good on this Earth. Allow me to tell you about my recent experience of reading the environment for building the Chain Bridge. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] It's like going back a hundred years and listening to what the opposition protested at that time against the construction of the Chain Bridge - it's about the same thing now. And I have to say, in summary, that building the City Park is not an environmental issue. [[Noise. Intercoms from opposition parties: Time! Mr. President, can you tell me everything you have on your paper?]] It's a political issue. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-07-20-12	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, The Fidesz has no authority to ignore the will of the Hungarian people, the Hungarian voters, and to voluntarily build up a dictatorial system with the title of György Szilágyi applied to speak before the agenda. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2016-07-20-13	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Bence Tuzson said something like that, if I remember correctly, that serious tasks require serious people. Indeed, it is, and I consider it a serious task to be a Member of Parliament, so the contrast is sharp when I look behind you, and I see that these serious people, who are supposed to have a quorum here, because you are in the majority of Parliament, you govern, these serious people when they have to come to work, they do not come in. [[Interviews from Jobbik and MSZP: Shame! Shame!]] This will prevent everyone from doing their job. Well, that's how serious these people are, the job that belongs to you is so serious. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: Where is Gábor Vona? Where's Gábor Vona?]] However, if they had come in and made it possible for us to discuss, say, today the Liget project, a project which has been a long-standing concern for the public, where civilians protest against your project, then you might have had the opportunity to defend yourself. I mean, we could've talked about why we had to deploy people to defend their interests for such an investment, which you call very good. Or we could have talked about what the green area and the green surface mean, whether it is different or similar. We could have also talked about why it is not important for you to have a worthy monument to the 56s, and to have a worthy memorial of 56 in this area. Or we could have talked about the Liget project about whether your vassal, KDNP, would not stand next to it, so that the Regnum Marianum temple would be restored in its original form. We could've all talked about this, but you're making it impossible. But we could have talked about other issues. We could have talked about issues and things that are equally important to the public. For example, we could have talked about whether Hungary currently has a mob government or not. We could have talked about whether one of the ministers of the Hungarian government actually received HUF 10 million from Tamás Portik. We could have talked about whether one of the ministers of the Hungarian government actually received HUF 4 million from László Vizoviczki to arrange a terrace permit. Or how many balconies did you put away, say, in your pockets, if the charges were true? How many times did he take 4 million forints in his pocket? We could also have talked about whether, on the basis of the model of Cosa Nostra in Sicily - involving politicians, judges, prosecutors and the like - there was a mafia network in Hungary that could be called, let's say, Roga Nostra. [[Defiance in the ranks of Jobbik and MSZP.]] We could talk about these issues, and you could tell us if you think this is appropriate. People are very interested in these questions. People are very interested in the question whether it is true that the Hungarian government is in contact with various underworld elements, the emperors and prominents of night life. Is it true that in these places of entertainment that these people operated, there were indeed Fidesz politicians who did things there that were not worthy of serious people and not the characteristics of serious people? All of these could have been answered here, but they do not want to answer these questions, since they are constantly hiding from these questions. Then we could also talk about why in Hungary there is a prosecutor's office, which is supposed to be independent of politics, a prosecutor's office, which should reveal independently every crime or suspicion that comes to its attention, refusing to investigate in the event of political parties, political parties or events related to politics. Documents have come to light in recent times, where testimony and testimony have shown that they have said these things, that they have made very incriminating statements to certain politicians, but the prosecutor's office has not been interested. They were simply laughed at when, for example, they started talking about one of the ministers of the Hungarian government, and even the prosecution refused to write down the name of this minister, and refused to write it in the documents and testimony. So there are a lot, a lot of questions that you should answer. There are a lot of questions that you should answer here, within Parliament's building. This is parliamentarianism, this democracy - it is when you do not ignore the will of more than 2 million people, because more than 2 million people voted for the opposition. He voted for the opposition so that he could discuss his views here in Parliament with you, with the government. You're ignoring over 2 million people. I think you should be ashamed of what you see here in Parliament. [[Intercoms from Jobbik: That's right! Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2016-07-20-14	Thank you very much, Congressman. With all due respect, on behalf of the government, who would like to respond to what has been said. [[For signal:]] Secretary Tuzson Bence. Here you go, Secretary of State. [[Intercoms from Jobbik: Let's hear it! Sallai R. Benedict: Béla Kovács!]]
u2016-07-20-15	Mr President, thank you very much for the floor. Ladies and Gentlemen, Dear Parliament, When we are talking about serious people and serious motions, it is indeed also necessary that the Parliament be able to discuss something, that these motions should be serious proposals, and that those who initiate them should be present in the Parliament building. [[Interviews from the lines of the MSZP: We are present!]] And that's how we're gonna start talking about these issues. But when it comes to, say, political hystericalism, I think, [[Noise from the ranks of the MSZP. Agnes Kunhalmi: Is this about the incitement of hatred?]] Serious people don't need to assist in this regard. [[8.40]] I would like to draw my fellow Member's attention to the fact that it was, a few years ago, Sándor Laborc, who led the secret services, who sat down with a criminal, and this criminal made him an offer that he was willing to discredit Fidesz politicians. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: That's right!]] I ask my fellow Member not to cooperate with criminals in this regard in any way. You're talking about criminal statements, you're quoting criminal statements. [[Intercoms from opposition benches, including Sallai R. Benedek: Even if we quote the government.]] Let us take it seriously when we talk about democracy. I'm a criminal of statements that I've made before, by the way. [[Ágnes Kunhalmi: There are only criminals in the story.]] I have been instigated to make statements on pro-government, current pro-government politicians, which cannot be taken seriously in this respect. [[Dr. László Varga: Politicians cannot be taken seriously!]] However, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that we are, in principle, democrats - and in particular, what is in the title of your speech before the agenda. [[Agnes Kunhalmi: The ceiling is falling!]] We are Democrats, unlike the statement made by your party president in 2012 [[Intercoms from the opposition benches. The president's ringing the bell.]] It was Gábor Vona who said that we, the bettermen, were not Democrats; he said that the bettermen were not Democrats. [[Intercoms from Jobbik, including Dr. Gábor Staudt: That's not what he said!]] So I think that the person who attacks the fundamental institutions of democracy is indeed not a Democrat, and that the prosecution, as such, is one of the fundamental institutions of democracy, one of the keys to the functioning of criminal law in Hungary. [[Interventions from opposition benches, including Ildikó Bangóné Borbély: Democracy! Ágnes Kunhalmi: The D.A.'s office is party educating him! Noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] And I would also like to draw attention to the fact that when there are cases behind your back, such as the case of Béla Kovács, Béla Kovács, who in this regard... [[Intercoms from the opposition benches.]] We are talking about a serious matter, a very serious matter, because the only serious spy case in Hungary has never been so serious that a political party [[Sallai R. Benedek: Kiss Szilárd nor any mishka!]] With its strong support, someone could have gone to Europe and then prosecuted him; this was not the case in Hungary. [[Intercoms from the opposition benches, including Dr. Gábor Staudt: The prosecutor's office...]] It should be taken seriously, and we should also look at the money behind it. [[Ágnes Kunhalmi: What a political force.]] what money flowed and how these money flowed to Jobbik. [[Intercoms from the opposition benches. The president's ringing the bell.]] So I would like to draw your attention to the fact that when the D.A.'s office is attacked, you have the right to ask yourself that this is because you have cases like this behind you. And it's not the only case. Let us not forget, however, that there are cases behind you that concern your party financing or state money. How is it possible that the funds that your faction has received from public money have, in a strange way, migrated out of special contracts, with advisory contracts behind which the performances are not known, and on different channels, we do not know exactly where these funds went. [[Interventions from the opposition benches, including Dániel Z. Carpathian: Ayy! Sallai R. Benedict: He's at the National Bank!]] For example, you should pay attention to the fact that there is a representative among you who owns a company and was a company that delivered doctors abroad. Is this ethical, is it compatible with a parliamentary work? Is it compatible with the work of a parliamentary faction? You have not been in government in Hungary [[Dániel Z. Carpathian: Now let us hear the answer.]] And yet, in your case, there are matters in the background that call into question your democracy. Well, please, pay attention and order up your faction. You would have had the opportunity to clarify these questions, and yet you have not. The Jobbik must first look around his own house and clear his own affairs. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties. Interventions from the opposition benches, including Dániel Z. Carpathian: Thank you, big brother! Dr. Gábor Staudt: That's why they don't pay you enough.]]
u2016-07-20-16	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Mr Lajos Kósa, Head of the Group of the Fidesz Group, on the link between the threat of terrorism and migration in Europe. Mr. Team Leader, you have the floor, please. [[Intercoms from the opposition benches, hand in hand... the president's ringing.]]
u2016-07-20-17	Mr. President. Dear House, The tragic events of the last few days have proved the increasingly obvious fact - I mean the fact that it is obvious to everyone - that there is indeed a close link between Europe's migratory pressure and the increased terrorist threat. [[Intercoms from the opposition benches, including Ágnes Kunhalmi: What about the history of the settlement? The president's ringing the bell.]] What happened in France also points out that terrorism is capable of providing rather unexpected solutions and attacks in places, through individuals who clearly have a migration link, but are extremely difficult to detect, are extremely difficult to identify. [[Ildikó Bangóné Borbély: What about Andy Vajna?]] And we look tragically and shaken at hundreds of dead people who have otherwise fallen victim to this terrorism. Of course, there are many who deny the connection, the obvious connection, not only in Europe, but also in Hungary, politicians primarily linked to the left, as Ferenc Gyurcsány, President of the Democratic Coalition, said not so long ago that there should be more fear of dog piss than of terrorists; Zsolt Molnár, representative of the MSZP, President of the National Security Committee, said that the most important point is that the refugee issue and terrorism have nothing to do with each other; or József Tóbias said not so long ago that it is questionable how much of the risk of terrorism is related to immigration, because the Socialist Party doubts that there is a link here. It is clear that hundreds of dead people have tragically demonstrated that there is a very close connection here, and it is also quite obvious that Hungary has a serious responsibility and responsibility to deal with the terrorist threat, as all European countries do. [[Nándor Gúr: Let your settlement policy float before your eyes!]] This is precisely the responsibility that led Parliament to vote on the package of laws which, by the way, give it the opportunity to deal with the migration situation in a new legal way. This came into force on 5 July, and I can safely say that the Parliament's Defence and Police Committee has personally convinced itself that this package of laws has really turned a turn in the management of the migration wave, because we held a sitting in Röszke, and we have been convinced that from 5 July, in essence, the loopholes that have remained open are also closed because the European Union's legislation has simply not allowed Hungary to close them. Today, it can be said that no man can cross the southern border illegally. After the change of the rule on 5 July, the situation is that if people cross the border illegally, the Hungarian authorities, following to a large extent all human rights aspects, will escort them back to the other side of the border and show them where their asylum applications can be legally lodged. [[Agnes Kunhalmi: Fighting dogs bite the children's nose off! What are you talking about?]] Special attention is paid by the Hungarian authorities to so-called sensitive groups - children travelling unsupervised, families with small children, elderly, sick, fallen - and they are otherwise ranked forward in the enforcement of migration legislation. [[Ágnes Kunhalmi: I treat everyone inhumanely, there are pictures! The president's ringing the bell.]] To add, 95 percent of those who come to us are simply misguided. It is quite obvious that you are consciously violating the law and not cooperating with the authorities, you are not justified. 70% of them have already applied for refugee status in another country, so they are not entitled to apply here, and they are aware of that because they are informed of this information when they register there; otherwise they know it themselves. It is also quite obvious that 95 percent of them give false information about themselves, and that is why the procedure is so difficult. An identification only takes 4-5-6 hours based on conversations, using a synchronized interpreter, where appropriate, a video synchronized interpreter, because they refuse to disclose real data about themselves. At the same time, the Hungarian system operates in such an exemplary manner that the Swedish and Finnish co-governments, which also looked at the operation of the transit zones, said: [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] that the Hungarian procedure is exemplary and should be done everywhere in Europe. Thank you to the police, border guards, soldiers, staff of the Immigration Office, all those who guard Europe and our security. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-07-20-18	Thank you very much, Mr. Group Leader. I'll ask if anyone wants to answer on behalf of the government. [[For signal:]] Yes, I give the floor to Secretary of State Tibor Pogácsás. Here you go, Secretary of State. [[Tibor Scones: A hand mike, please.]] To solve a technical problem, I'd like a manual microphone for the Secretary of State. [[They put a hand mike in front of Tibor the Scone.]] [[8.50]]
u2016-07-20-19	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear House, I think that, above all, we express our sympathy with all those injured in the terrorist attack, with the relatives of all those who died as victims of terrorist attacks. A terrorist attack shakes the whole world, especially when it's close to us. The threat has become part of everyday life in the European Union since autumn 2015, and the terrorist attack on the citizens of the European Union has become part of everyday life. Violent acts cannot be justified, never justified by any acts of violence, even if they are linked to any ideology. Terrorists cannot be exonerated and those who send them to war cannot be exonerated. At the same time, however, we obviously need to look at the reason why Europe has become a target of terrorism and why terrorist acts involving such a large number of victims have occurred in recent times. We must say that after 2015, it became clear that Brussels was the hotbed of radical Islamicism in Europe. It is close to the big cities, the countries where many immigrants live, and it is now clear that in Western Europe, many Islamic communities have not been able to integrate in recent years and decades. [[Ágnes Kunhalmi: Is the Islamic State not disturbing the Secretary of State? It's a terrorist organization.]] They were not able to adapt to the social order of the countries, they function as parallel societies, parallel, almost mini-states in these countries. Immigration strengthens all these processes and points to the old knowledge that immigration, migration, can strengthen these parallel societies, and newcomers, by the way, strengthening the children and grandchildren of old immigrants, who feel like losers of society, shift and move them towards radicalism, Islamic radicalism. Terrorist attacks have shown the need to strengthen cooperation between European secret services. The cooperation between the secret services that is in order or in operation was inadequate or inadequate. [[Ágnes Kunhalmi: We also need political confidence and political capital.]] Data not taken into account or taken seriously that could have been attributed to attacks. It must be pointed out that the descendants and descendants of second-generation third-generation immigrants living here in Europe are radicalised, and that they feel that they are the losers of society in France, Germany, cannot and do not want to live with society. With the refugee wave, terrorists can also arrive in Europe and arrive in Europe, which is confirmed by all large secret services, by all states, and it is therefore very important that Europe should finally manage its borders properly. At the beginning of the migration wave, at the beginning of the beginning, Hungary expressed it, and tried and implemented it to protect its borders, including Europe's borders, in accordance with the rules. We believe that the wave of migration into the European Union can only be achieved by protecting the borders of the European Union and by keeping migrants outside the borders. [[Lajos Korózs: What did Viktor Orbán sign in Brussels?]] Hungary is still carrying out this process today, even when Greece or the front countries of the European Union are unable to do so. The laws adopted by the National Assembly allow the Hungarian police, border guards, to protect the Hungarian borders, and we have allowed us to return the border offenders captured within a radius of 8 kilometers to the border, and they can, otherwise legally and legally submit their asylum application. It is therefore interesting that the vast majority of immigrants know that otherwise they are not entitled to apply for asylum. This is also evident from the fact that 23,628 asylum seekers are now in open reception centres [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] 606 persons, 714 in asylum detention and 341 in detention of aliens [[Agnes Kunhalmi: Kill them or shoot them!]] At the same time, the others try to leave the country and go west. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-07-20-20	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, Since you used a hand microphone, Mr. Secretary, it is my duty to watch the time, and since you started at 49.40, the 5 minutes expired at 54.40 p.m., I rang accordingly. I've also watched the passing of time. Thank you very much for your understanding. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, We have reached the end of the speeches before the agenda. [[Dr. László Kács: Where are the governing parties?]] I declare that Szabó Timea and 46 additional representatives, by submitting the necessary number of supporting signatures, will be the XXXVI of 2012 on the National Assembly. Law 35. Pursuant to Article 1 (1) of the Act, the CCXLII of 2013 on the renewal and development of the City Park initiated the convening of an extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly. T/11328 on the repeal of Law 17 and amending the 2006 Act on the implementation of investments of major importance for the national economy. for the purpose of the discussion of this proposal. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: Where's the petitioner?]] CCXLII of 2013 on the renewal and development of Városliget initiated the convening of an extraordinary meeting of the Parliament. T/11328 on the repeal of Law 17 and amending the 2006 Act on the implementation of investments of major importance for the national economy. for the purpose of the discussion of this proposal. (Dr. Bence Rétvári: Where is the petitioner?) Dear Parliament, I declare that President János Áder has sent the Parliament his transcript of the waiver of State Secretarys' term of office. I would ask Mr Lajos Szűcs to present the transcript of the President of the Republic. Here you go, notary.
u2016-07-20-21	Mr László Kövér, President of the Parliament, Budapest. Mr President, I inform the Parliament that Article 9 (four) (j) of the Fundamental Law and XLIII of 2010 on central government administrations and the status of members of the Government and State Secretarys of State. Law 55. L. Simon László, State Secretary of the Prime Minister's Office, was relieved of his mandate on 6 July 2016 on the proposal of the Prime Minister. Budapest, 5 July 2016 Sincerely, János Áder. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. [[Ildikó Bangóné Borbély: Finally!]] Paragraph 3 (j) and Section XLIII of 2010 on central government administrations and on the status of members of the government and State Secretarys. Law 55. L. Simon László, State Secretary of the Prime Minister's Office, was relieved of his mandate on 6 July 2016 on the proposal of the Prime Minister. Budapest, 5 July 2016 Sincerely, János Áder. (Bangóné Borbély Ildikó: Finally!) Mr László Kövér, President of the Parliament, Budapest. Mr President, I inform the Parliament that Article 9 (four) (j) of the Fundamental Law and XLIII of 2010 on central government administrations and the status of members of the Government and State Secretarys of State. Law 55. On the proposal of the Prime Minister, Lászlóné Németh, State Secretary of the Prime Minister's Office, was relieved of his mandate with effect from 7 July 2016. Budapest, 6 July 2016 Sincerely, János Áder. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry.
u2016-07-20-22	Thank you very much, Mr. Notary. Dear Parliament, Fellow Members! I declare that the Hungarian Socialist Party's parliamentary group elected Mr Bertalan Tóth as group leader, Sándor Burány, László Szakács, László Varga, Csaba Tóth and Árpád Velez as deputy group leaders. I congratulate Members on their election and wish them every success in their work. Dear Parliament, We are now deciding on a proposal on the agenda put forward by the President. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts the recommendation on the agenda. Please vote by raising your hands. [[Vote.]] Thank you very much. [[Interviews from the lines of the MSZP: A visible majority.]] Ladies and gentlemen, My monitor indicates the number of cards placed in the voting machine by the Members present. It's all... [[Intercoms from the benches of the MSZP.]] Do you mind if I tell you? [[Noise in the ranks of the MSZP.]] Congressman Lords! You must be elected President of the Parliament, and then you will lead the session, but please allow me to say, in accordance with the regulations of the House, all that is contained in this House. According to the inserted cards, there are 43 people present, so the Parliament... [[Bangóné Borbély Ildikó: The others must be withdrawn!]] No, 47 people submitted the proposal for an emergency meeting, but there are only 43 of us now. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: The petitioner is not even here. Interruption from the ranks of the MSZP.]] Congressman! The congressman is a notary and the notary of Parliament is expected to take serious part in the sitting. [[Demercation in the ranks of opposition parties.]] So the Parliament doesn't have a quorum. [[9.00]] In order to have the list of missing Members drawn up and posted, I would now ask you to repeat this vote by machine. I ask the Honourable Parliament if they will accept... [[For signal:]] I'll wait for the card to be put in, because this will really change the number of Members present. [[Anita Beringes: Shouldn't we take a break?]] Please check that your card has been properly placed in the voting machines. [[It's happening.]] So I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts the proposal on the agenda put forward by the President. Please vote using the ballot counting machine. [[Vote.]] I note that, when the agenda was adopted, there were 36 yeses and 7 no votes, so on this basis I find that Parliament is not a quorum. In the absence of a proposal on the agenda adopted on the basis of the relevant provisions of the Rules of Procedure, no item on the agenda may be discussed. The Rules of Procedure 14. In accordance with paragraph 2 of paragraph 2 of this section, I will have the list of missing representatives drawn up and posted and published on the website on the basis of this vote. I would like to inform you that the next meeting of the Parliament is expected to take place in September 2016. Thank you all for your presence, the meeting is closed. I wish you all a good summer, a good rest. [[The meeting ended at 9:2 p.m.]]
