u2016-03-30-0	Good morning, fellow Members. I welcome all of you and all those who follow our work on television or on the radio today. The 12th day of the spring session of the Parliament is hereby opened. I would like to inform you that István Tiba and Ádám Mirkóczki will be notaries of my assistance. We will now begin with speeches before the agenda, as usual. For a pre-meeting speech, Mr Attila Móring József, from the Christian Democratic People's Party, with the title of the 170th shipping season, has begun. Here you go.
u2016-03-30-1	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, On the last Saturday of the week, on Saturday, the 170th Balaton shipping season began with the complete transfer and release of the Siófok catamaran after renovation. The Balaton Shipping Company. the first fully accessible, public transport vehicle on the lake, which will serve on the busiest section, Siófok-Balatonfüred-Tihany route. But on this Saturday, not only the shipping season, but also the tourist season began, taking advantage of the good weather, thousands of families walked on the beach, turning from their winter dream to slowly waking up catering places. It is well known that in addition to Lake Balaton Budapest, Hungary's most attractive tourist attraction. The Lake Balaton is not only for us, but for many of our countrymen, it is much more than a lake; it is not a sea, but it is. Balaton is a sense of life, passion, love. The current tourist season brings significant changes to the people around the lake and to the Lake Balaton to relax and relax for travellers alike. According to the government's decision, in the coming years some 300 billion, partly EU and partly domestic funds can be used for the complex development of the natural, social, economic and cultural environment of the lake, helping to maintain ecological balance. When the EU development period 2007-13 was planned, there was no integrated development plan covering the complexity of Lake Balaton and its region across operational programmes, so that some improvements were implemented in an island-like manner without coordination. The government has recently decided on the adoption of the Balaton regional development concept and the Balaton regional development strategy programme, as well as on investments from EU and domestic sources in the area of Lake Balaton. The decision provides for the conditions for the long-term development of the region, while, in addition to investments for tourism, particular attention will be paid to areas such as modernisation of transport infrastructure, strengthening local businesses, improving water quality or supporting the production and marketing of locally produced agricultural products. This amount, which has never been seen before, is an extraordinary opportunity for the region to be renewed. Castles and castles can be renewed around Lake Balaton, and numerous attractions will be created that will be suitable for extending the main season that has been shrinking for just a few weeks. Csobány, Nagyvázsony, Szigliget and Sümeg are included in the list of significant developments. There will also be significant investments in Hévíz and Zalakaros, as well as in Buzsák-Csistapuszta, which is currently only available thanks to the enthusiasm of the local government. The modernisation of the South Balaton railway continues. At this stage, the line between Szántód-Kőröshegy-Balatonszentgyörgy will be renewed, resulting in faster, quieter railway tracks, more modern, more cultured station buildings. The Fonyód-Kaposvár railway line is also renewed, on which there is currently the same length of tumbling from the Somogy county seat to the lake as the 19th century. At the end of the century. From a significant amount, the Sió lock is renewed, which now serves as an industrial monument to regulate the water level of the lake. Beaches, ports are renewed and the Balaton Shipping Company is significantly upgraded. His fleet, too. In order to serve increasingly dynamic cycling tourism, it is essential to develop and expand infrastructure. Therefore, new trails are established around the lake, existing cycling routes are broadened and services related to cycling are renewed. The plans for the complete renovation of the biking road are already ready, not only the asphalt strip will be wider, but also the related services will be developed, relaxing, information points, biking parks, theme centers will be created. Grape and wine producers also receive significant support, helping to market high-quality Balaton wines, creating a network of sample farms by developing wine roads. It is also possible to develop the knowledge economy in Balaton. So the financials are available to reconstruct Lake Balaton [[The president's ringing the bell.]] to renew the status gained in the '70s and '80s to make it attractive again from Germany to Poland, but we must not forget that that unique miracle is primarily ours, Hungarians. Mr. President, thank you for letting me know. [[Applause from the pro-government ranks.]]
u2016-03-30-2	Thank you very much, Congressman, thank you very much, notary. Nándor Csepreghy, Secretary of State, responds to what has been said on behalf of the Government. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2016-03-30-3	Mr President, Thank you very much for the floor. Honourable Congressman, And for you, the opportunity to talk about a very important issue and, if you will allow me, I would not only talk about Lake Balaton, but also about the tourist development of Hungary as a whole, because I do not know how many people know, but it is very important data that this sector gives about 12-15 percent of domestic GDP and has a significant impact on employment as well. Today, it provides a direct livelihood for some 200,000 families and contributes to the livelihood of nearly the same number of families. We are talking about a sector that, despite the current technological changes, has a very strong employment potential, which supports the government's objective set in 2010 to create a million new jobs in Hungary in ten years. After Budapest, Balaton is indeed the most important tourist region of Hungary, one of the biggest problems of which is that seasonality is too narrow, so within a year the tourist use of Lake Balaton is basically limited to the period from spring to autumn, thanks to the fact that the developments made in recent years have essentially preserved the period after the change of regime and have not brought new tourist attractions into this area. Thanks to the fact that the Hungarian economy works well, but there is not only a source available to preserve the current conditions, but also to move forward in a tourist sense, we are developing attractions on Lake Balaton, some of which you have already mentioned, and another part of it already exists on paper at the level of concept. I am talking about developments that, thanks to government support, will receive about HUF 320 billion of state aid by 2020. Part of this money comes from the EU budget and another part can reach the region of Lake Balaton in support of the Hungarian budget. The development policy objectives ahead of the country are clear: how we can create new jobs and stimulate economic growth. However, in answering this question, we think it is necessary to give different answers depending on the parts of the country. The counties in the region of Lake Balaton have laid a very clear development concept on the government's table, which sets out the development goals that we would like to achieve jointly by 2030. As you said, development resources are available for this, but there are still a number of details that need to be clarified before these development resources actually arrive. In the case of Lake Balaton, we see today that the number of tourist accommodations can meet the current demand in part, but this also needs further development. However, we believe that we are talking about investments whose development must essentially take place under market conditions, without State aid or with indirect State aid. By indirect state aid, we mean that if the State develops tourist attractions in the Balaton region, it supports tourist attractions that attract more tourists, extend seasonality, so they not only use the tourist season based on Lake Balaton's water supply, but also offer thematic entertainment and recreation opportunities that can fill the period from autumn to spring. [[9.10]] If these developments are implemented - there is a relatively short time for the Balaton development community to do so, because, according to a government decision in force, it is possible to draw on this 320 billion forints of development funds, if we can clearly see in what development projects they want to invest in by the end of next year, then there can indeed be a tourist region in Hungary that, in addition to the development of Budapest, can make this second development region a centre for Hungary that can not only serve significant public revenues and new development resources in the four months of the year, but also in all twelve months. I would ask the Member to contribute to the work that the settlements in the Balaton region, the Balaton Development Council, have already opened its wings in bringing together county municipalities, and indeed to develop developments that serve local needs, because the essence of the new development policy can be drawn up in defining national goals. I think there is a political consensus in Parliament that job creation and economic growth must serve the purpose, but we will only be able to do this successfully if we are able to provide local responses to the challenges facing Hungary, but in a local way, to all regions of the country individually. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause from the pro-government ranks.]]
u2016-03-30-4	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. In Hungary, with the title 'Knowledge Crisis' from the MSZP Group, Ms Ágnes Kunhalmi applied for a speech before the agenda. Here you go, Congresswoman.
u2016-03-30-5	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, Hundreds of schools, thousands of teachers, parents and civilians who are concerned about Hungarian education have completed their one-hour demonstration in Hungary. Do you know why these people went out on the street again and again and again? 'Cause the KLIK is a real success story. Do you remember that? And you too, Minister of State, but Minister Balog has said it many times, and so has the Prime Minister himself: indeed, the KLIK's difficulties are only temporary, they trigger a large system, it always has such problems, it will come around nicely. Well, it didn't get out of hand, and you announced it yourself, Mr. Secretary, that it was going to be terminated, and then it quickly turned out that it was going to be transformed, because it would remain a state reserve. You know, dear Fidesz, five years ago, we, opposition representatives, said this would fall on you five years ago, because simply by reason of its logic, it can't work because of the faults encoded in the system. Trade unions have been saying for five years, civil society organisations have been saying it for five years, and everyone in the world has said to themselves, by the time we have come to this point, that they have practically brought the country into a knowledge crisis in Hungary, and the total lack of governance characterizes your activities for the year 2016. Are you surprised they won't sit down to negotiate with you? How many times have you sat down? How many times have they been tricked? ! They must resort to such political means to demonstrate. We fully understand them, MSZPs, because you simply didn't look them in the dog, and to this day they wouldn't call and invite them to the negotiating table if they didn't use such tools. Now, who's gonna blame the whole KLIK story on? Who's to blame now? The Socialists? Is it Brussels? Or the Communists? Or, like, George Soros? I forgot. Could he have created the KLIK? No, dear Fidesz, you created this. But KLIK is just a symptom. What you need to understand, Mr. Secretary, is that the problem here is logic. Even though they're gonna chop the KLIK apart, they're gonna take it one level closer to the kids and the teachers. Quite simply, this type of centralised logic, wherever it is twisted from, the state reservation will not work. In Hungary, the local government and the municipal administration, so that parents, children, teachers and those involved in education manage their own schools under state law, there is simply no alternative. I don't understand what happened to you guys, why you put on a bunch of problems and things that people have done wonderfully for 25 years or 20 years on the ground. Where there was a problem, there should have been an intervention, but not the whole thing under one center. The biggest problem is that you are thinking about some sort of Soviet design economy, not the idea of civil Hungary before you, but it used to be, and in this it could have been a political and social minimum, and I think there were moments when there was, but you know that if this design economy were working, which was created with KLIK, or which was used in other areas, it would still be socialism in Hungary. But thank God, I don't, and I really hope that you won't be able to recreate it. I see a problem with your education government being built to lie. They lied to people, and even the Prime Minister himself told this lie that the education system went bankrupt financially before 2010. It didn't go bankrupt, Mr. Secretary, but starting the bankruptcy administration by taking 200 billion out of the budget as elected by the Prime Minister, so let's not say that the government's chimborassosa, and in 2013, almost 3.9 percent of the budget support for education has fallen to below GDP. Debt: note that the municipalities have never been indebted to Hungary because of the school institutions. The debt was accumulated by the Fidesz municipalities, because their Prime Orbán announced that the worse, the better, take up debt without a neck, no matter how you farm, drown the socialist government in this system. They lied to you the same way when they said they had performance problems. They weren't! All their results were improving. What should have changed was to carry on the early childhood development system we defined, so that a small child, if he got to primary school by 6 and 7 years of age, could work off his disadvantages. A creative school is needed in Hungary. You can't go back to the solutions of the last 25 years, Mr. Secretary of State. You know why? Because the world has simply changed around us. A true civil democracy can only be achieved in a creative and democratic school. The man of the present and the man of the future will experience his success and spend the rest of his life in the labour market through the fulfillment of his own creativity. This requires a democratic school. I don't know if the word democracy is still there. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] For you, anything at all. Thank you for listening.
u2016-03-30-6	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. On behalf of the Government, Secretary of State Bence Rétvári responds to what has been said. [[Zoltán Gőgös: Will there be a farewell speech, Mr. Secretary of State?]] Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2016-03-30-7	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Dear House, In fact, as I listened to the speech, I began to think that I would confront what the Socialist Party had said about these issues earlier. [[Agnes Kunhalmi: Take your time.]] Although you like to wipe out the past. [[Zoltán Haughty interrupts.]] But actually, I've come to the conclusion that I'd like to compare the first minute of the speech and the fifth minute of the speech. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] It is possible that there are so many contradictions that there is no need to go back to 2010. You said such things that you cannot go back to the solutions of the last 25 years and that the government should return to the system before 2010. [[Agnes Kunhalmi: We didn't say!]] That alone is a bit difficult to bridge between the first and fifth minutes of your life. I suggest that when you say literally that the state reservation will not work, you turn to the 2010 former socialist statements and programmes for that purpose. In your pre-election communication, it was stated that, although not all schools in Hungary, but in some schools, you would introduce state reservations from September 2010, and you said that everyone protested against this, parties, opposition and trade unions alike. Then read the statement in the People's Union of Teachers, in which you say that this is a very good decision, and in this direction you should go. The difference was that only a part of the school could be achieved [[Agnes Kunhalmi: Big difference.]] or Fidesz-KDNP says all schools. This depends on how we look at society, masturbate elite schools, embalming those institutions. [[Ágnes Kunhalmi: And the Churching? Elite schools?]] Where there is no particular problem or difficulty, we provide a good opportunity for those who are in a settlement, i.e. schools where the situation of the municipality is more difficult, where children with more difficult fates go there, they are also released and not helped, they do not give those children the opportunity to start a life on an equal footing than children born in a better city, in a better neighborhood, where obviously the school's financial supply was better. If the socialist era could be characterised, let's say, in higher education and public education, then higher education would probably be the tuition fee, which would best describe what you have been trying to achieve. [[Agnes Kunhalmi: You introduced him!]] In the system of public education, the lock is locked, since you have locked in 381 places, mainly in rural, especially difficult settlements, on the doors of schools. [[Ágnes Kunhalmi: Now there is no money for a lock. The president's ringing the bell.]] And from then on, no student, no teacher, no parent went in. That's why you dismissed 17,000 teachers, and the rest of you who were there took away your 13th month's salary. [[Agnes Kunhalmi: We have not dismissed any of them, none of them! It was retirement!]] which meant an annual withdrawal of HUF 17 billion from the public education system. Seventeen billion a year withdrawal! If I add this up, it's more than HUF 80 billion, which you can owe to the teachers in relation to their wage cuts. And if I look at the reduction of the norm and many other measures, the amount that you, dear socialists, have taken out of the system of public education goes above HUF 200 billion, and that is what the Fidesz-KDNP government had to replace. [[9.20]] We have done this in several ways, mostly by setting up the pedagogical career path and the additional requirements to be provided for it. This is 32 billion forints per year, then 120 billion forints, 34, 38 and 36 billion forints per year in the system of public education, as we are trying to appreciate teachers, teachers who look after the most valuable members of the family, children, to feel respect in a material way. That is why it was important for us to develop this new system. It was clear that what had worked before did not further advance Hungary's fate, there was bankruptcy at the content level, and there was bankruptcy at the financial level. At a reserve level, because the performance of the students did not improve, but also deteriorated, as the education, health and social system and the municipal system were underfunded with HUF 1300 billion. That's why this government had to consolidate the municipalities with such money. These, you know, dear Congresswoman, are the funds that have not been given to municipalities during the socialist period in order to maintain these institutions, to ensure that education works properly, that social care works properly, and that health care works. If you'd given me this, you wouldn't have had to do this. But you would also change the textbook system. That is easy to say here, honourable Member, but this will draw 15 billion forints from the pockets of Hungarian families and the Hungarian budget if you return to the former system in which the textbook system was a privatized part, a money-producing part, a profit-generating part. [[Agnes Kunhalmi: But what if it's full of stupid things? Lajos Korózs: I'll show you geography.]] As far as GDP is concerned, in the remaining 15 seconds, I think you have made a record of a 12 percent reduction in the share of education in declining GDP between 2008 and 2010. [[Agnes Kunhalmi intervenes.]] This is expected to be above 6 per cent in 2015 if our final data are published, but I think you have reduced public education expenditure in the last years of your governance with a record of Europe. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of Fidesz.]]
u2016-03-30-8	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Get your hands off City Park! Ms Schmuck Erzsébet, the notary of the Parliament, from the group of the LMP, applied for a speech before the agenda. Here you go, Congresswoman.
u2016-03-30-9	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, After Kossuth Square, Ludovika and József Rádor Square, the chainsaws of Fidesz also reached the City Park. They destroy trees, green because of an unsubstantiated and pointless project, while, despite billionaire propaganda, three quarters of Budapesters oppose the installation of the Liget. The law adopted by Parliament in 2013 makes this destruction possible. The City Park is considered by the people of power merely as a building site. It's not new. As early as 1897, this is how the Budapest circle of the High School Teacher Association complained about the Székesfehérváros Council:. It almost seems that every time a public building needs a free winter, it will regret this at all times the City Park. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. In the last two years, it has been revealed that there is no professional preparation, no professional support, neither by architects, nor by urbanists, nor by garden or landscape architects. It's not a coincidence. The idea of building monstrums inside the Liget is so absurd that there can be no rational explanation, reason, argument. Instead of rational arguments, the leaders of Liget Budapest operate only with rhetorical turns. According to one, large construction projects have always caused great opposition, so the protest only proves the size of the plan. On the other hand, there were emblematic constructions in the world and in Hungary that they did not object to: the Sydney Opera, the Guggenheim Museum in Bilbao, the Wekerle Camp could be a Hungarian example. Or some where they modified the plans for civil protest just like they did in Berlin. The fierce protest does not prove the size of a plan, because Budapest does not want its megalomania, but fortunately it does not have a miscarriage in its plans. They wanted to build the Gellért Mountain by the millennium. There were plans for National Valhalla, Sleeping Beauty Castle, a 130-meter statue to Rákospalota, but also a thousand-metre pyramid. There could be a skyscraper in the place of the Western Railway Station, Horthy Plaza in the place of Deák tér, with a center-circle of 98 towers in the place of the city centre, a hundred-hectare Szalasi Castle in Budaörs or a 16-track, million-round parade on the site of Attila út. In short, don't kid yourselves. There is no widespread protest because the project is big and good. It's because it's bad. Forget it, just like the Gyurcsány government, fortunately abandoned the government district plan. Moreover, in the area of the museum district, there are many professionally developed alternatives, which experts have done for free, and they should only be watched. Placed next to the Western Railway Station would be much more logical, for example, new buildings. This would also not result in the destruction of existing irreplaceable green surfaces and areas. There's only a few things you have to do to solve it. Prepare demolition plans that do not involve the destruction of any healthy tree. Ruined buildings don't belong in a public park. Do not build the house of Hungarian music in the Liget, find alternative places - there are 100. Put the new Ethnography in the Kilian barracks or the West Park. The Museum of Transport also has a number of nearby places. There is no place more worthy of the National Gallery than the Castle in St. George's Square. This would also protect the artifacts. Renew City Park as a public park. This can be done by a hundredth of the planned costs. And also: Városliget Zrt. Next to a civilian inspection board and become the chief gardener of the City Park. So it is not so difficult to solve culture, the development of museums and the development of the city in such a way that it is really useful and good, not ruining our heritage and our lives. Thank you for your attention.
u2016-03-30-10	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. On behalf of the Government, Secretary of State Bence Rétvári responds to what has been said. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2016-03-30-11	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Dear House, Somehow, on the part of the LMP, we did not hear a similar speech in Parliament when Gergely Christmas, your former party partner in Zuglo, cut out 71 ice trees at the expansion of a swimming pool. Somehow that case didn't hit him, it seems like the threshold for LMP, even though a gardener said it would be better to just cut back the trees, rejuvenating them so that he didn't think it was right to refer to decay or life-threatening. The NGO Zuglóak Forum, who is obviously close to LMP's Zugló organization as a civil society organization, said that the tree trunk was completely intact, and somehow, when Gergely Christmas opposition representative, former LMP representative, did these tree cuts in Zugló, neither the LMP nor the others protested so fiercely. But at the time when they decided on the construction, development and more precisely reconstruction of the Rákosfalva park, there were also those who were now protesting against improving the care of the City Park, even with their vote to vote against a proposal for the survival of the trees. So it's a little strange that the Members who are now so concerned about the trees of the City Park didn't worry so much about other trees a few hundred yards away, but accepted them. And it's weird that while they're talking about planting trees in one place, besides the 4500 trees designed for the Western grove, they don't say how much they'd support the implementation of that development. You know, Congresswoman, this seems to be -- you can take it on yourself, or others can take it on -- as if it weren't so much about the tree in Zuglo, but about the political fuss that everyone can get in the media on these issues, because one tree can be cut off, they don't object to it, and the other one invites the entire Hungarian press when they want to protect the trees, although, let's add, you and others obviously know the numbers that the proportion of green surfaces in the Liget project will increase by 5 percent, from 60 to 65 percent, so overall everyone, including the city, the Liget, and the tourists, will also do better. This, in turn, is more of a protection of neglect, since they do not allow greenland development to finally take place in the area of Városliget, protecting the special function and composition of Városliget, which has always been the case since its creation. It's full of cultural entertainment. The Zoo, the Széchenyi Bath, the Museum of Fine Arts, the Műcsarnok, the Ice Rink, the Agricultural Museum, the Transport Museum are all located within the area of the City Park, not outside the edge of it, in the built-in section of the city. So this is how this park was created, that cultural entertainment features and leisure functions, green spaces are simultaneously implemented within the framework of an urban cultural entertainment park. [[9.30]] As I told you, the proportion of green surfaces increases from 60 percent to 65 percent, who opposes this, supports the neglect of the City Park, not the qualitative renewal of green surfaces. As you may know, a design competition for landscape and garden design will be announced. They have never spent as much on maintaining the Liget, protecting the green surface there, perhaps, as they did when Városliget Zrt. He took over the management of this area, as he spends 400 million forints on the renovation, maintenance and renewal of the Liget. Currently, one third of the City Park is covered with concrete. Are you opposed to at least partially cracking these concrete surfaces and creating green surfaces? Why is a one-third City Park reinforced better than a five-percent increase in green areas? As far as trees are concerned, there are currently 6465 trees in the City Park. Of these, 143 are dangerous for life and accidents - I think no one will take the risk of any tragedy happening about them - there are 606 trees in very bad condition, which will become dangerous for life and accidents within 5-10 years, 73 dried-up trees and stumps, which is more than 1 percent of the timber stock. However, the number of trees requiring care is 5506 pieces, more than 85 percent of all trees in the city grove. This means that this is the area that needs to be dealt with. This is a neglected, desolate area, compared to which development and care are needed. Obviously, it is also in our interest to save every tree, which is why more than 80 very prominent intellectuals have supported it, who have said that we believe that there are responsible development programmes for the benefit of all of us, of the present and of future generations. We believe that the Liget project is one of them. Thank you so much for listening. [[It's a rare round of applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-03-30-12	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, From the Jobbik Group, Member Mr Rig Lajos came forward to speak before the agenda on the past, present and future of health. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2016-03-30-13	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, In my speech, I would like to give a little look back from 2010 to today on the transformation of the health system, its effects both in my constituency and at national level. After all, the two are closely linked, which is in the constituency or in a county, usually at national level, either in education or in health care. In 2010, when you came to government, you were given a medical system in ruins. No one denied that, it was true, the socialists had embellished the health system. And before you answer, in your reply, you'll tell us about the investment, the 500 billion-dollar building reconstruction and infrastructure development that was really needed at health institutions, that's commendable, but not enough. After all, you know the facts that there are hospitals, either in my constituency or at national level, that the internal renovation and the replacement of service machines, X-ray machines and diagnostic equipment have failed in many hospitals. 2010 was the year when you dreamed of the Semmelweis plan, there were several versions of it. In this Semmelweis plan, hospitals have been restructured. There were hospitals that could survive, retain their function, and function-changing hospitals. These are what you call small regional hospitals. They gave examples that these small-region hospitals need a change of function because they are more economically sustainable and do not produce so many shortages. Well, please, this theory has failed, because we know on a daily basis that these small regional hospitals are producing the same shortage. There was population dissatisfaction in several places, in several cities, including Tapolca, because of the removal of active beds. In two weeks, we collected 12,000 signatures, and even the Secretary of State promised that these active beds would be returned. Although we know about Fidesz that everything is beautiful and very good at a promising level, only feasibility has been lost. During the election period, a promise was made that changed functions and demands would force it out of the healthcare system so that these functions could return to the hospital. I was talking about the signature. In recent times, in the context of the national consultation, I have been talking to a large number of trade unions and directors about how to solve the problems of hospitals that have become function-changing hospitals and perform rehabilitation care and inpatient care. The approved permits to increase the rehabilitation scores from 1.4 to 1.8 in one of the branches of the board receiving the additional funding would solve the problem of hospitals that are very indebted to both municipalities and suppliers. They didn't get any answers to that either. The biggest problem is now, in 2016, the outsourcing of chronic beds. We're talking chronic and nursing beds, so let's separate the two. The nursing bed, it's in the name of the nursing ward, is that it's just a nursing process. But on chronic beds, anyone says anything, they're sick. The majority of chronic beds are below 1.4 times, 1.2. Let's get this straight, all the chronic medical beds are being put out into the social system, and as a result, the funding for them will also disappear for hospitals, as a result of which small hospitals will be completely impossible. I don't even talk about the workers who work in the chronic ward anymore, so they're transferred to the social sphere. We all know that the financial appreciation of the social sphere in Hungary is very low. They're doing the same job as health workers. Directors are also opposed to this outsourcing. One is that they know very little about it, and what I've told you is that the outsourcing of chronic medical beds is the end. I see this concern in Mr Secretary of State's face, so I would like to finish my speech with a little cheer, and I hope that this will remain humor, and that the reduction of waiting lists will not be resolved by combining several specialist orders, and then they will be able to examine more diseases in a patient and could be given the opportunity to examine his eyes and his walk at the same time. I'm looking forward to your reply. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2016-03-30-14	Thank you very much, Congressman. On behalf of the government, Secretary of State Bence Rétvári will respond. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2016-03-30-15	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, He gave up a high ball, but I'd rather not hit him because of the seriousness of the subject. Let's start with the fact that in connection with the Deák Jenő Hospital in Tapolca you mentioned, we should not forget the 2.3 billion-dollar development that has been achieved by extending the one-day surgical care, by building enhanced outpatient care, by building a new, modern rescue station. Of course, Tapolca wasn't the only one, because we built a new rescue station in 22 places, and we dynamicd them in 60 places, renewed them, and bought hundreds of ambulances. But if I continue to develop a hospital in Tapolca, the development of pulmonary medicine and the development of cardiological rehabilitation services have all been achieved. I understand, Congressman, that anyone who lives there, who feels the need to represent the people there, always says that they are beautiful, but they should. Obviously, we would expect an opposition politician to demand further improvements, but I think it is an achievement that Tapolca, the local government, hospital workers or those involved in politics there can be proud that Tapolca has managed to achieve this over the past five years, as it is a tangible and spectacular development; it is the success of everyone who is sick or healthy in or around Tapolca hospital. And we wanted to do the waitlist cuts in a different way, Congressman. We thought if we gave more money to treat and cure patients on the waiting list, these waiting lists would decrease. It's not a very special idea, it's a suggestion, which is why we spent an extra 6 billion forints on this. While about 70,000 people were waiting on the waiting list five years ago, a long year ago there were 45,000 people, it now dropped to less than 35,000. This year's budget also includes a $5 billion item to reduce waiting lists. That is why we are confident that these waiting list cuts will continue, and if we have been able to split the number of people on the waiting list in the first five years, then the goals that we have set for what can be done in three months or six months as an intervention compared to the application, if we move at this rate, will be achieved by the end of this cycle. After all, during the previous cycle, we managed to reduce the length of the waiting lists and the waiting time by half. [[9.40]] But it was a specially strapped source that was intended to reduce the waiting lists. It was nice to see that hospitals finally posted on their website what additional sources of intervention they had, and they suggested that patients who couldn't use it in one hospital should go to another and do it right there. But it was also important to reduce the general debt of hospitals by HUF 60 billion in the framework of hospital consolidation. In the past, smaller items occurred year after year, but this was a high degree of consolidation, which is clearly for creditors or, more specifically, for those who should have paid to hospitals earlier, they also released part of the debts. Generally, interest, late payment fees were released, and after that some change was made after this difficult situation in the management of hospitals, the debt no longer increases as much as it did in the previous years. At the same time, we would like to take a very strong and effective step here. As the chancellor system was established in higher education and the debt of higher education institutions was significantly reduced to a fraction, we are also thinking in this way in the case of hospitals. The Secretary of State has already given a briefing to hospital directors and briefings on this in various national health forums. The work of this is ongoing, and we hope that it will soon take the form of legislation, but we considered it important to carry out a broad consultation with the stakeholders. We therefore hope that, in addition to hospital consolidation, this kind of transformation can also prevent further debt generation. But for example, it is not a burden for hospitals to pay their salaries, for example, in terms of wages, either - I quote - to pay the residents' salaries, since they are no longer for the hospital, but they are paid by a background institution of the Ministry, precisely to eliminate this conflict of interest, which may have occurred in some places between a young doctor and an elderly doctor, since many older doctors thought that the younger doctors would be charged with their salary. It's not like that now. Perhaps this is also due to the fact that, while in 2010, about 500 young specialists applied for work - more specifically, young doctors, so many residents began their activities to be precise - the number of young people entering the residency support programme has now increased to 917. That's almost double. So much more young people from medical colleges start their activities in a public-funded hospital in Hungary [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] It's like five years ago. This rise from 500 to 917, I think, is an encouraging sign for the long-term future. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-03-30-16	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Mr István Németh, Member of the Fidesz Group, with the title of stable and healthy drinking water supply in Hungary, applied for a speech before the agenda. Here you go, Congressman.
u2016-03-30-17	Dear Parliament, Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. For the last few minutes, I felt that the school, the hospital, the City Park was just an excuse to attack the government. The children, the sick and the green mind are just a means to make a good political mess in the hands of the opposition, even in parliament. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: That's right!]] , whether outside the Parliament, and many of us have called the attention of Members to the fact that it is not appropriate, let us say, to drag children into politics, it is not appropriate for politics to go into school. Well, the same thing happened on March 22nd, World Water Day, when the loss of, the loss of giga in public water companies, losses forgotten by huge state aids, financial tricks, the majority of the deficit is caused by the reduction of the overhead; Szabolcs Szabó and his party president Viktor Szigetvári made this article, where, by the way, Viktor Szigetvári believed that it was necessary to go back to the world before 2010. After all, he wrote that drinking water should be offered at market prices, and, of course, he is talking about destroyed companies, and he also mentions thousands of redundancies. Well, the truth, on the other hand, ladies and gentlemen, is that at the end of 2012, the government decided to significantly reduce the household costs that were drastically increased during the Gyurcsány-Bajnai governments. Surveys at the time clearly showed that an average Hungarian family spent at least 30 percent of their monthly income, but often more than half, on overhead costs, which was not surprising, since we Hungarians paid the highest gas price and the second highest electricity price in Europe. All of this, with the most intensive increase in Gyurcsány in 2008 and public gas prices falling on the world market. This was no different in the water utility sector. I would just like to mention, as an example, that in 2002 there was a cubic meter of water, which rose to 192 forints by 2013, and of which 20 forints had to be released in mid-2013, so the people of Budapest could still buy the drinking water for 172 forints. However, the question arises as to the impact of the reduction of the rent on each sector, the quality of public service that consumers had encountered before the reduction of the rent, and what they are meeting now, as this article was trying to detail. Let us again take as an example the water utility sector, which is not only a strategically important area for all of us, but also a rather delicate area for quality and security of supply. It is no coincidence that the press was alarmed by water supply, and it is no accident that they were trying to put consumers in a position to regret the reduction in the cost. Our country has a very good ability to obtain good quality, healthy drinking water for all Hungarian households, without any regular outage or even significant network failure. Now, just over a week after World Water Day, we can say that households in Hungary have a unique access to good quality drinking water at a healthy European level. In all sectors, the level of the reduction in costs has been determined in such a way that the quality of service and security of supply are not negatively affected at all. In my view, this principle should continue to be a primary consideration while maintaining the current price level. However, the question arises: if Hungarian consumers have access to high-quality water and at a favourable, reduced price, then why is it necessary to create tensions based on unreality and to alert consumers lyingly. Finally, I would like to thank all the experts of water utility providers who work and do their job in winter, heat and frost so that Hungarian households can get quality, healthy drinking water. And I would also like to express my thanks to the Hungarian Water Facility Association, who not only provided huge professional support at the time of the reductions, but have continued to be open to professional cooperation and share it with us. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] all the professional proposals and comments of the sector. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-03-30-18	Thank you very much, Congressman. On behalf of the Government, Mr János Fónagy, State Secretary, responds. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2016-03-30-19	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, Water is indeed a special place among strategic raw materials. Many people say - and I think they're right - that the 21st century The century will be about water all over the world and so in Hungary. In Hungary, water supply seems to be easy for the external viewer, as we are a sub-water country, we get about 94-95 percent of our waters from outside the border, so we are a country with a relatively good quality of drinking water in the past centuries and at present. But (1) this is not by itself; (2) serious steps must be taken to preserve this; (3) this must be delivered to the public in good quality, within the appropriate institutional framework and at a reasonable price for all. We need to do this more than that, because water supply is an exceptional place among public services. This is the only sector in which the State has a duty of supply for all, so that the supply of healthy drinking water cannot be withdrawn or denied or neglected. This assumes a uniform system, assumes uniform, good quality and assumes and requires an appropriate and accessible fee for all. After the change of regime, the pendulum of independence and democracy waved to the other side, and instead of the 24 large public waterworks before the change of regime - 19 county and 5 regional waterworks - nearly 400 water utility companies were created. [[9.50]] The technical consequences of this appeared primarily there, including, of course, the occasional uncertainty of supply, the eight-fold difference in prices at each point of the country, so it was the same basic right of citizenship where someone had access to it for ten dollars, and some where, for eighty money, depending on where he lived, and which of the nearly 400 water utilities was his provider. After 2010, we tried to change this with the water utility law developed in 2012-13, resulting in 40 services based on uniform quality standards, including five regional public water utilities, in the place of nearly 400 water utility companies today. You're wrong, or at least you're setting things up in bad faith and twisted, who says you can do it for free. It can't be done. Water systems shall be coordinated. These are hundreds of billion-dollar plumbing, instruments, pumps, jobs, the technical coordination of these costs money, and this money was provided by the Hungarian government. As a result, we have achieved a uniform system of fees in Hungary today, a system of charges which, as a result of the reduction in overhead charges mentioned by you, is, without exception, cheaper everywhere than in the period before 2010. It is therefore also cheaper where these significant investments have been turned by the State over recent years into water supply and drinking water supply. So not only are these allegations wrong, but they are extremely misguided and unfounded because they assume that miracles are happening and that large drinking water systems will grow together on their own. They don't grow together on their own. The other is that this will increase the fee and cost citizens more. It didn't cost any price, it cost citizens less without exception. Last but not least, quality. In the previous period, an average of 350-400 quality errors were reported annually. This has now been reduced to 40-50 per year as a result of the measures. Make no mistake, one is a lot, it needs to be changed, and we are moving in this direction. It is no coincidence that dozens of water quality improvement projects per year [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] plan and implement by the government. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-03-30-20	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, This brings us to the end of the speeches before the agenda. The debate on the legislative report and the proposed amendment to the National Housing Communities Act, adopted by the Parliament on 17 March 2016, sent back for consideration by the President of the Republic. Text of the Act sent to the President of the Republic for signature T/9660/6. Letter from the President of the Republic T/9660/7. The Parliament's IT network is accessible to all. First, the position of the Legislative Committee and minority opinions will be presented in the debate. A total of 15 minutes is available for these. I give the floor first to Imre Vas, the rapporteur of the committee, who presents the position of the Legislative Committee. Here you go, Congressman.
u2016-03-30-21	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, As was said at yesterday's legislative committee meeting, Hungary has a good system of brakes and counterweights, despite all the other rumors. We see an example of this in the drafting of this bill. The President of the Republic, exercising his right under the Fundamental Law, sent back for consideration by T/9660. The draft law on national home-building communities adopted by the Parliament on 17 March 2016. The President of the Republic agreed with the aim of implementing the legislation, extending the possibility of family home creation with state aid, while bringing some problems to the attention of the Parliament. In view of this, the Legislative Committee submitted 17 points of amendment to the bill. The report and the amendment were adopted by 19 votes in favour and 8 votes against by the Legislative Committee. In his letter, the President of the Republic drew the legislator's attention to the need to clarify precisely and clearly the status of the community and the organiser. I believe that the proposed amendment fully meets this requirement. We also ensure the requirements of transparency and verifiable management by ensuring that the value of extraordinary payments does not exceed 40% of the remaining payment obligation. This provision also protects the interests of the less capitalised members of the community. From a guarantee point of view, it is also important that the amount of the organization's reserves should not fall below 3 per cent. It is also a reaction to the head of state's comments that some parts of the regulation initially at regulation level are laid down in law, including the rules on bidding. Finally, I would like to point out that we have managed to surround the entire bill with guarantees that it will provide adequate protection for the members of the national home-building community even without a separate insurance system. In order to facilitate home creation, I urge you to support the adoption of the bill. Thank you for listening. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-03-30-22	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, The Committee's minority opinion will be presented by two speakers within a total of 7 minutes. First, I give the floor to Congressman László György Lukács. [[Dr. László György Lukács: Tamás Harangozó.]] I'm obligated to adapt to the script, so I apologize. First I give the floor to Congressman László György Lukács. [[Dr. Tamás Harangozó: Mr President, will the smaller faction begin?]]
u2016-03-30-23	Mr. President. If there is a possibility to deviate from the scenario, it is indeed customary for the party with a larger faction to give its opinion first, the minority opinion, and then I would like to follow.
u2016-03-30-24	I'll take it. First, I give the floor to Mr Tamás Harangozó, from the MSZP Group. Here you go.
u2016-03-30-25	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, We're probably not talking about the same bill Imre Vas presented. The first way to summarise this proposal is that the Fidesz apparently did not take the criticisms of the President, and you were not particularly touched by the package of proposals that the head of state has sent you. Their 17 points do not even substantially scratch the excuses that the head of state has raised in the last 24 hours with their speedy law. Let us not sugarcoat this; this will continue to be a corruption case with legislation, my fellow Members. The only thing you have put into this law is that it is possible to know by name again which one is the ownership circle and which two companies can live with this bill throughout Hungary, so this is about the guarantee that we see in the law. But what is it that still doesn't? The biggest problem that all opposition parties have unanimously stated is that, in our view, this is the essence, which makes it impossible to support this law in any way, that there is no guarantee of investor protection in this law. Even though you say what kind of reserve must be trained, despite the fact that the organizational company and the community's wealth will be separate, they simply have no answer to the question, which happened not so long ago in this country under your government during the Quaestor scandal: there was no law in which it was possible to steal hundreds of billions of forints with fictitious bonds. [[10.00]] But yet, at least the deposit guarantee funds gave small investors some opportunity not to lose all their money. In this game, and that's why we say that it's a pilot's game, there's no guarantee for investors that they'll get their money in such a case. The only guarantee remains that the Hungarian National Bank, led by György Matolcsy, will exercise supervisory authority, during whom hundreds of billions of forints could be stolen last year through fictitious bonds in the Quaestor case and the related brokerage scandal, with the current, allegedly extremely strong and guaranteeing supervisory powers that György Matolcsy and the Hungarian National Bank had. Ladies and gentlemen, In addition, this proposal continues to suggest that, as in all consumer communities, small money, less informed people, simple people who want to get an apartment, will be the losers of this case, and that well-suited, richer people can benefit from this opportunity. This is reality, and it is as far away from our values as possible, so we cannot support it in any way. And the fact that again in one day, without the substantive wording of the criticisms, you will vote for this bill in a slave manner again, and this is now for my fellow Members of the Fidesz, we think that the moment may come when they will be very ashamed of you, and we therefore advise you not to vote for this bill in this form. And the only thing we can offer citizens with good heart is to avoid this opportunity as far away as they can. Thank you so much for listening.
u2016-03-30-26	Thank you very much, Congressman. Mr László György Lukács, from the Jobbik Group, is next. Here you go.
u2016-03-30-27	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, As has already been said here, at the Legislative Committee, almost word for word, the same arguments that gave the guarantee, the existence of a sufficient guarantee, as was said at the previous legislative committee, which is interesting only because President János Áder himself sent back this legislation with the idea that it would be necessary to confirm precisely the guarantee elements that would protect the people involved in this so-called financial dangerous operation from being able to gamble their invested deposits, their invested future expectations, or take them away from them. When we examine this legislation itself and Mr János Áder's letter, with which he sent it back for consideration, the question should be asked whether this is what he meant, whether this 17-point amendment was meant by the President of the Republic or not, if he could have done so, whether he would have put these 17 points in this way, as he put it, and we should have come to the conclusion that, in our view, he did not mean this and did not mean such amendments, he would have required much more extensive amendments, much more guarantees and protection from the legislation, even on the basis of his letter. It must therefore be seen that the expectations expressed by the President of the Republic have not been met. All the opposition parties' speeches, which always covered guarantees and lack of them, pointed in the same direction. Perhaps one of the most important of these, which has been mentioned several times, is a kind of insurance fund, as the National Deposit Insurance Fund guarantees financial products, considered it necessary to create or create a similar fund for all opposition parties and for a large part of the opposition. The situation in this regard remains unclear as to why this is not possible. We believe that, and on the basis of the opinions expressed, it is absolutely necessary to state that, even if it would cost the product itself, it is necessary to establish such a fund, precisely because the financial frauds of the past decade and the scandals that have sprung up in the last year have explicitly shown that people's economic knowledge in Hungary... - they do not understand the situation well in terms of investment, participation in any such financial investment, they are not qualified enough, they are not conscious enough, so it is therefore the duty of the legislator to protect them, either by their own error or by their own fault, or because of the fraudulent activities of others, that they cause damage to themselves, but also to all of the national economy, so it would be necessary to intervene on such a fund. I believe that we are still facing a financially dangerous plant, and that the national community of home creation is certainly not in conflict with the purpose it describes, but that it has been created in a frustrating way, and that it carries a danger that will destroy itself, I believe, the result and purpose of this initiative, because people will rightly fear this product, they will rightly fear the pattern behind it, if they like it, and they rightly fear that it will eventually turn into a pilot's game, in which they will suffer continuous damage. It was therefore said, as a minority opinion, that much more guarantees would be needed in the legislation. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2016-03-30-28	Thank you very much, Congressman. I am now going to ask Mr Tuzson Bence, State Secretary, if he wishes to speak on behalf of the rapporteur. [[Tuzson on Bence's mark:]] Before I give you the floor, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that there is a total time frame of 10 minutes for speaking in the debate and presenting a possible closing point, so what you are now using is less time for closing. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2016-03-30-29	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. First of all, I believe that when negotiating such legislation, it is essential to start with what is the government's objective. Since 2010, the government's very important objective has been to support Hungarian families. This was also at the heart of its activities when the tax system was adapted accordingly, which was at the heart of its activities when it implemented the reduction of the rent, and this is also at the heart of its activities when it announces a family home-building programme, and accordingly, a system is created that essentially has more legs, rests on several legs, and is also an important element of this is NOK, and we would like to include it in the legal form of legislation. One of the most important elements of this program is the CSOK, which you already know, which is of great importance both for used apartments, but also for new apartments, where, in the case of three children or three children, state aid of HUF 10 million can be taken up by those who undertake this, and from the other side VAT rules come in, and under VAT rules we reduced the VAT on new apartments significantly, from 27 per cent to 5 per cent, and after the construction of the apartments, VAT can be refunded up to HUF 5 million. So it is a multi-legged package, to which we can add that the system of housing savings banks also works in Hungary, which is also a very important element, but this system has a serious flaw that, in the case of housing savings banks, new apartments have not been created in Hungary to the extent that new apartments should have come. After all, in addition to the fact that it is very important for every Hungarian family to have a home, preferably to have their own home, and besides the fact that more and more children can be born in Hungary, and thirdly that this whole programme is linked to the country's economy and economic growth, it is therefore important to create new homes and promote economic growth. New housing can greatly increase economic growth. According to the most pessimistic estimates, 10,000 new homes can increase GDP by 0.2 percent. Accordingly, the national home-building community is a Community form that functions on the one hand outside the banking system, which constitutes a financial community in a particular way, so a community of property on the other side is also a community of persons, and in this closed Community form it guarantees that those who enter this system will be able to obtain housing sooner or later, thus, during the duration of the system. As requested by the President of the Republic, the TAB's amendment contains many amendments, which reinforce the current system on several points. On the one hand, by clarifying the concepts, it strengthens the guarantee elements from one side. Such as ensuring the length of operation as a guarantee element, for example, because when we talk about how long such a home-building community can work, it is important to talk about what is going to happen in the event that, by the end of the 10th year or by the end of the 15th year, suitable homes are not created, whether the rules of civil law that ensure that those involved in it can get their money from one side or from the other side, so that they can definitely have an apartment. [[10.10]] It is very important that there is a 3-percent rule, a safeguards rule for the provision of reserves, and this is being clarified by the Parliament. This is about 3 percent, although this is the case from the provisions of the legislation, I believe that it has occurred earlier, but it is clearly insured in the long term, so while the system is in operation, 3 percent should be available as long as the system is in operation. The important question is that there are clear questions about how to get an apartment in this system, so the way to get an apartment is also clarified when, for example, a bid can be made. The detailed rules of this have now been incorporated into the law, although, in my legal opinion, it would be enough to clarify this in a government decree, but now, in order to strengthen the guarantee elements, both the bidding and the lottery will be regulated at the legal level. This is also linked to the issue of entry into force, which also raises the question of the need to bring the legislation into force in such a way as to ensure that the government decree to be put in place next to it can enter into force at the same time as the law itself. This could also be ensured as before, but given the fact that the President of the Republic has raised an objection in this regard, the law now provides a longer time limit so that a regulation on this matter can be drawn up in any event. We believe that this regulation now ensures that anyone who enters this home creation community can see his money in a closed system. As a separate legal entity, a separate protected amount of money, as a separate legal entity, is provided with the amount of money available. This can only be paid for housing or your money can be put into sovereign debt as an investment. Accordingly, the payment is also guaranteed, and above all there is the Hungarian National Bank, which, with its own supervisory system, provides protection for all those who otherwise participate in the national home creation community in this form. [[Defiance and interruptions from the benches of the MSZP.]] We therefore believe that there can now be a regulation that can fully ensure that anyone who joins this home-building community can know his money as safely as possible and can be sure that by the end of the term, he can obtain housing. Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. [[Applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2016-03-30-30	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I would like to inform you that, at the end of the debate, you will have a timeframe of 3 minutes and 10 seconds. It is now up to the Members to speak within the time-frame on the agenda. There is no possibility of a two-minute comment during the debate. The timeframes can be read by everyone on the billboard. First of all, I would like to give the floor to Members of the Fidesz Group, Mr Manninger Jenő, first of all. Here you go, Congressman.
u2016-03-30-31	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, On behalf of the Fidesz fraction, we are also pleased that democratic control is working. We note that the President of the Republic had objections to the scheme, but it should be stressed that he did not criticise the purpose and the Community scheme, but made comments of a legal nature and asked for guarantees to appear at the legal level. It should be stressed that the political objective remains valid in the context of the law, namely to support the promotion of home creation for families and, through this, the revival of the economy by all means; and to provide as many tools as possible for the implementation of housing support, this is what the proposal for this construction serves. Those who carefully read the summary proposal submitted by the Legislative Committee yesterday saw that a number of additions were included. In line with the comments of the President of the Republic, a regulation has been put in place that guarantees that the funds paid to the community can not be used for anything other than housing. I would like to highlight a few guarantee elements without repeating in detail the ones before me. Such an amendment, for example, in point 8, is to ensure that the value of extraordinary payments does not exceed a maximum of 40% of the remaining payment obligation. Such an amendment in point 11 is also that the reserve rate should not fall below 3 per cent and continued compliance with it must be ensured. In the case of bidding rules, there was also a clarification in point 14, which states that the amount of bid that the member may take during the bid may not be higher than 60% of the remaining payment obligation in the contract value at the time of the bid, so that it will not be possible to take an excessive bid and thereby engage in abusive behaviour. To sum up, I can say that the amending package before us represents a correction of the original proposal and helps to support home creation. It is also very important that guarantees can be implemented not only at the statutory level, but also, of course, on the basis of the law's implementing regulation and future government regulations. Obviously, they will be able to reflect on the issues that arise in practice. The way and regulation of the use of money, as the Secretary of State said, can provide additional guarantees for the implementation of the construction and the proper security of the concession. In response to the previous solo, I have to say that we are not surprised that according to the MSZP, no housing support scheme is good and encourages people not to use housing subsidies, because we remember exactly how housing support systems were destroyed at the time; during their time, only the foreign exchange credit facility, which caused otherwise serious problems, worked and helped people to get housing. On the other hand, these constructions provide state aid to people. I must stress against attacks that this is not gambling, even if it is apt and witty name. This is not gambling, because it is a fundamental difference to gambling that everyone who enters this can get an apartment, so it is not about luck. Obviously, the method of accessing the apartment and the rest are regulated by the construction, but anyone who enters and puts his money in can get an apartment. Not with the help of bank credit, maybe that's why the MSZP is attacking it, because it's another sector, not based on bank loans. I think that, in addition to other subsidies, such as the CSOK, the VAT reduction and the acceleration of construction procedures, this construction will open up new opportunities in areas other than bank credit schemes and can support the construction of new homes, which is why I ask Members to support the proposals. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2016-03-30-32	Thank you very much, Congressman. Mr László Szakács is next from the MSZP Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2016-03-30-33	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, Don't get me wrong, the only thing we agree with you is the goal: of course, have a home, an apartment for people; of course, have as many children as possible in the country. What you have put before us in this law, and the whole housing support system that I will discuss a little later, which you have set up, is not suitable for this, is simply not good. In addition to quoting my fellow Member Manninger: democratic reflexes work, that is true, but reactions do not work. It can be said that, in fact, you did not take the criticisms that President Áder made in his veto. In fact, they don't even mention the criticisms or the findings that we can read there. In addition to the fact that we still have personalised legislation, they still do not pay attention when President Áder says that the freedom to set up a company in Hungary is a very important right of freedom - the Ptk. has all the necessary rules - you are still thinking in Zrt.? Why? Because the consumer protection authority who provided data on consumer groups is only two of them. [[10.20]] This law is not good for families, it is not about making homes, and it is certainly not about buying homes for people. It's about these two companies getting a two-year monopoly, and these two companies are going to be the ones where people's savings and the combined state resources provided by the law are going to be transferred there. I would add that I think that you also saved up in the planning process, and you cannot say exactly what kind of budgetary impact this will have. They can't tell if there's going to be five of these groups, I don't think you have any idea. And last but not least, by saving planning, saving impact assessments by saving the analysis of the mechanisms of action, they asked the wrong question. People don't have the biggest problem now that they want to tell you where they want to live for ten years in advance, and not least how much they want to buy that apartment or that house, and they want to belong to a community that the state will support. No, people have completely different problems, depending on landmarks. There are tens of thousands and hundreds of thousands of vacant homes in the southern part of the country; you are not going to do anything about it, you are not interested. The fact that, by the way, there is a shortage of real estate and property prices are skyrocketing, say, in Northwest Hungary, is precisely because the Hungarian population is going there in the hope of a better life, and even beyond that, beyond the border, you are also not interested. You want to build new apartments with two companies, and these two companies still have one job to do: these apartments need to be sold. This is nothing new, ladies and gentlemen, it must be said again, it is nothing new: it is the 15-year dream of one man, the joint owner of these two companies, Zoltán Nyéki; on 8 May 2001 in the Index newspaper, this construction was perfectly revealed. You had to pull something out of the bottom of the subloo, and I understand that things are going wrong, but that's not what's going to get the construction industry out of trouble; you have, by the way, insulted the performance of the Hungarian construction industry in such a way that it would have been in the honor of any of my opposition fellow Members. That's not what's gonna pull it out, it's for these two companies, it's not right for anyone else at the moment. But let's look at what you keep saying, that this is a system of three: the CSOK, the VAT reduction and the NOK. The CSOK: my fellow Member Manninger claims that you know the CSOK system well and precisely. My reputation, ladies and gentlemen, is that I believe that no one knows the CSOK system exactly today, no lawyer, no banker, no client. There are tens of thousands of people coming to banks, constantly changing the rules, and I say to my fellow Members who are nodding now that there are 88 requests received in three months, which is not 30 per month. I think that the success of this should at least be considered. That's five percent VAT. Avoiding the hasty, unplanned and mechanism of action has led to you not paying attention to the fact that when someone buys a new apartment, they do not do it by first building it and then looking for a buyer; usually, those who want to buy a new apartment buy a property from the design table. They did this last year, and they paid it, 27 percent VAT, which is the highest in Europe for you, and now they're struggling with the builder. You're not interested in this, you're interested in propaganda. What you're saying is very good on the poster, and it just doesn't work anywhere else. And the guarantee. I think, exactly after the last year with the Quaestor case, the Buda-Cash case, you don't have enough reflexes to say that we'll put a guarantee fund there, ask an existing one to get in on this. In this case, when public confidence, public confidence in public institutions, and especially trust in the Hungarian National Bank has been creaking for a year, to say that these are so strict guarantee elements, and even Matolcsy is watching - well, God save everyone from being very protective of Matolcsy! That's what 32,000 victims of your family in the Quaestor case tell me, and that's what a lot of people say that they don't think it's a guarantee element. Mr. Secretary, one more thing. The property is separate, the legal entities are separate, but the President of the Republic has also drawn your attention to what other activities the trusted organizer can do, what activities it can do, and what financial implications it has, and you will give no guarantee of that. The fact that this property is separately included in one of its assets accounts for the two of the trusted organisers simply means that it must be included on 31 May when the balance sheet is accepted. You don't know what happens to Matolcsy during the year, either, and that's the least of it, but it's also a problem that the people who put their money in there won't know. We believe that without a specific guarantee element, Mr. Secretary, the attention of the MNB is not enough. The legal conditions that are too strict are so strict that only the two companies you choose can benefit from this, and the families will not live their lives the way you think: they would first like to move to an apartment, and then pay off the details of one's apartment, not ten years in advance, and then pay to participate in a bid or mister's pardon, even a lottery. I think that this is not right and will not achieve its objective; this will not make the economic boom that the Secretary of State is talking about; this will not put the Hungarian economy in a position; two companies will be put in a position with a distinct ownership circle. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2016-03-30-34	Thank you very much, Congressman. The next speaker from the KDNP Group is Mr István Hollik. Here you go, Congressman. [[Dr. Zsolt Legion: Now we're getting some!]]
u2016-03-30-35	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to start with what Bence Tuzson said: it is very important to look at what the legislator and the government had in mind with the national home creation discount. Once again, it is clear that families can have children and move to the home they want, and the other goal of the government is to support the construction of the new housing. By creating a national home-building community, the new home-building programme for the government will be final. This measure was also particularly timely because very few new homes were built in Hungary. We know, and we consider it very important that there were and there are savings banks for housing, in which almost one million people have savings, and the budget supports their operation by nearly HUF 50 billion a year, but despite significant state support, new housing has hardly been built. The essence of NOK is that the State supports savings for housing purposes. Members joining NOK undertake to pay a pre-specified amount at a pre-specified rate and, in addition to the savings, the Community shall advance the amount remaining for the purchase of new dwellings free of interest to those members it selects. It is very important that the state makes a serious contribution to saving people's homes, which is 30% of the deposit obligation, but not more than 300 thousand forints per year. We know that the law on the national home-building community has had strict guarantees, but we can see that the President of the Republic has not considered these guarantees sufficient. For our part, we find the changes that have now been included in the bill reassuring. I believe that by making these guarantee rules even clearer, and by doing so, they will now comply with the proposals proposed by the head of state, so the guarantees will be strengthened. I wouldn't want to mention it either, the speakers before me have already done so, but one of the most important guarantees that may not have been mentioned is that the community is obliged to continue its activities beyond the pre-specified time, until every member, every member of the community, has access to housing. So I believe that these guarantees have now become even stronger. [[10.30]] It is also important to mention here, after the opposition accusations, that there is no credibility from the left, because they have abolished the well-functioning home creation programme of the first Orbán government and have driven people into foreign exchange loans. Balliberal governments abandoned families, turned the field over to banks, so in a short time the rate of foreign exchange loans increased from 1 per cent to 50 per cent. There was only one programme that left-wingers were able to present, the so-called nesting program, which also failed badly and ended in a mass of criminal proceedings. A few words about the opposition charges. The home lotteries may indeed be apt, but the essence of the operation of the national home creation community is absolutely not covered. So whoever uses this probably doesn't know either the rules of the lottery or the rules of the national home-building community, because the lottery depends on luck, and as my fellow Member Manninger pointed out, everyone in the national home-building community gets a home, nothing depends on the luck that comes into this community, and it will get to the apartment. From what I've seen, the only valid argument the opposition has is that the legislation puts an economic company in a position. That is what they said in the previous debate, and they are saying it now. He also quoted a statement from one of the owners of two companies, which he made in 2001. The problem is, however, that he has not read his recent speeches to this owner, because this owner has said that he will consider, and it is unlikely, that he will enter this market for the time being. So it seems that once again the left started from itself when he thought that individualised legislation was being made. Yeah, that's what happened under your governance, and it's a piece of legislation for individual, individual economic enterprises. [[Dr. Zsolt Crew: Jesus Christ!]] And then you went to keep your hands where I can see them. And by the way, it's not just accusations, because the criminal case of politicians in your party confirms it, I don't think it's an accusation on my part. Otherwise, if it were said that, as a result, no one will be able to continue this activity in the next two years, then I can say that these two years give perfect preparation time to operators who want to enter this market after two years, and these two years give individuals, Hungarian citizens, the right time to learn about the system of NOK, and then, when these market services start up, they can otherwise use it calmly and with confidence. This proposal is clearly against the banks' business interests, as it shifts savings not to them, but to NOK, and in recent weeks, obviously, banks have lobbied against NOK. They seem to have found the left again, which again sided with the Hungarian banks against the Hungarian people, and therefore do not support the bill before us. Overall, the government's new home creation programme, CSOK, has become complete by creating national home-building communities, along with the 5-percent housing tax, which also supports families to get their own homes. The new home creation programme is expected by KDNP to build more new homes and contribute to the growth of the economy and the birth of more desired children through the construction industry. We can therefore support the bill before us. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the pro-government ranks.]]
u2016-03-30-36	Thank you very much, Congressman. The next speaker from the Jobbik Group is Mr Dániel Z. Carpathian. Here you go, Congressman.
u2016-03-30-37	Mr President, Dear House, I do not promise that I can exercise the necessary restraint in all my sentences, because when the government brings back a state-lawed piloting game against the Presidential concerns of the Republic and wants to channel state resources through reliable comrades, it would still be possible to argue whether there are any professional arguments behind the whole system. At the same time, I find it very dangerous when they are clearly trying to justify legislation on their own companies with professional arguments. My fellow Member Hollik is shaking the political slap over and over again. I would urge you to be at least honest, admit that the aim of this package is not at all to achieve a population turn, it is not at all to have more Hungarian people at home, because then they would approach from a completely different philosophical base. I can acknowledge that, and we can agree with you that, yes, this is about the development of new-built apartments and real estate, this is a good thing, by the way, and I support it myself, but I don't support it in this form. So we should resolve the philosophical difference between us in that the children we desire are mostly not born at all in new-built and newly-built homes that you now wish to encourage a little through reliable comrades. The typical Hungarian model is that, living with the parents, the desired children are born with the purchase and expansion of used property, precisely from life situations, which are supported only by a very reduced amount for the CSOK example. Your basic philosophy is excellent, and now I want to support those who are thinking in a new-built apartment again. That's going to be about 10 percent for the CSOK interested in the long term. With regard to NOK, we can see who they want to favour. Yes, up from the upper middle class, who can spend at least 70-80,000 forints on saving this type of savings in a month, and these people will indeed be your beneficiaries. But I would like you to come up with professional arguments, and when my fellow Member Hollik says that this is indeed a proposal against banks, against the interests of the banks - by the way, he rightly accuses the socialists of supporting banks, say, for the last eight years - but he forgets who it was, which government made a pact with the banking system, which government it was. It was yours, yes, last year, which, in connection with the so-called foreign exchange credit settlement, credited thousands of billions to the banks' accounts, took the money of the Hungarian people, and now the money of the foreign exchange loan victims, which was accumulated as a surplus at the National Bank, is not placed in a compensation fund, it is not helping the creditors, it is trying to encrypt the process of spending these funds. So it's insolence on your part to refer to it. Therefore, I say that it would make much more sense to discuss the philosophical differences between us and to have a meaningful discussion about why the government should not extend its benefits to used properties, renovations, life-like enlargements and real Hungarian life situations where the desired Hungarian children could, yes, be born and born in the circles of decent families. We have to say, at the moment, if they were only two directions, so that the CSOK would be extended to expansion, renovation, used properties in full and at full support level, as well as empty properties trying to assess and bring back a good part of them to Hungarian life, they might achieve a much greater result than this. What's wrong with you is you haven't done this before. Much more trouble, what my fellow Member Hollik said, I quote, I hope that the government's home creation programme will become final by means of this new pillar, NOK, i.e. by means of the CSOK, NOK and VAT cuts. This assumes that you do not even think about bringing empty properties back to life in Hungary, and even more painful, you do not even think about the construction of a public home-building and rental-building program, creating thousands of tens of thousands of tens of thousands of apartments a year, because you should not only think about those who can afford to buy a new-built property. But let's talk, of course, about the pilot's play that, with professional arguments, we have not been able to really support how, in addition to the total lack of guarantee, they can force people to sign that the OBA does not take responsibility, the Deposit Insurance Fund does not take responsibility for the operation of their trusted comrades and companies you consider to be reliable, which, in the event of your conviction, is not at all clear about what is happening, as you intend to define this in a later government decision, after we are expected to sign this blank cheque. But we can't see at all why it wouldn't be realistic to create a separate guarantee fund, yes, even a little bit more expensive, but still make it lifelike. We do not believe that you will not learn from the catastrophic situation of those who have suffered foreign currency credit, where precisely the lack of collateral and guarantees has caused the catastrophic situation that has arisen, and we do not believe that they will not learn from the situation of the Quaestor-damaged, where the situation of 32 thousand victims and the fall of the situation shows that we should start on a completely different path. Of course, there are unsuitable conditions on which we have drawn attention, but they are still present in the NOK system. Such is the fact that foreign accounts can be filled with the funds involved by the organizers, your trusted comrades, who come out of a very narrow, predefined corporate circle. The only thing you have been suggested by my fellow Member, Mr László György Lukács, is that you try to collect in an EEA country, even through enforcement, the claim that is due after the situation created by a fallen-in company, the Hungarian person who has been saving for home creation. [[10.40]] It is simply not realistic that the details of what they have come up with have not been worked out, and they intend to do so in a later government decision. And for some reason, it's very, very urgent for you to put your company's best friends on the list for 24 hours. And once again, the most important thing for us would be that my fellow Member Hollik should not be right in the sense that this completes the government's home creation programme, because this - once again, in-house agreement - would mean that you do not think about renting either, nor do you think about extending the CSOK, the mass of family home creation benefits, to lifelike situations, to more lifelike, more frequent situations such as enlargement, such as renovation and the use of used property with the availability of the total discount. Therefore, we call on you to withdraw this state-legalized pilot play, to sit down with the stakeholders and to develop a decent package that will help all Hungarian citizens. Thank you for your attention. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2016-03-30-38	Thank you very much, Congressman. The next speaker from the LMP Group is Ms Erzsébet Schmuck, notary of the Parliament. Here you go.
u2016-03-30-39	Thank you for the floor. Mr. President. Dear House, According to the LMP, the amendment proposed by the Legislative Committee does not make it more appropriate to adopt the National Housing Community Act. The patchwork amendment of the NOK Act cannot handle the fundamental, conceptual errors of the law, but it cannot even remedy the legal objections of the President of the Republic. János Áder, as we know, did not sign this law in scandalous circumstances, which was adopted in exceptional proceedings. The President of the Republic wrote that although the objective should be supported, increasing the opportunities for families to create homes, its implementation requires the establishment of a transparent organisation providing adequate guarantees to the participants in the process, under strict official supervision of the operation. According to him, these conditions cannot be met by the law. It does not contain guarantee rules to protect consumers, it refers most of them to government regulation. Guarantees for deposit guarantee and investor protection are also missing from the law. NOK is not really distinguishable from banned consumer groups, there are no clear boundaries between the organizer and the community. The President of the Republic will only confirm what we said earlier in the debate: we are faced with a proposal bleeding from a thousand wounds from the point of view of consumer protection. But not only is the problem, the procedure is also criticised by János Áder, and not only because such a far-reaching law has been violated in an exceptional procedure in Parliament. The legislative law, which the government has forgotten a long time ago, sets out the rules and rules for the preparation of legislation, the preliminary impact assessment, the obligation to give an opinion on the draft legislation, to which the President said the government was ignoring - we might add, not for the first time and not for the last time. The proposed amendment of the Legislative Committee does not address the problems in substance, it implements less cosmetics on the law, but these amendments do not replace any missing guarantees, the aspects of investor and consumer protection continue to fail, and painfully lacking detailed rules are still not included in the law, and there is no way to distinguish national home-building communities from consumer groups. In short, for citizens who think about buying homes, there will be nothing more attractive, less risky than what we have seen so far. The LMP stated its professional objections in the debate on the law. The biggest problem we continue to find is that at the expense of those with lower incomes, the law again supports those with higher incomes. This ensures that the system is integrated into the bidding system, and this means that Fidesz will continue to break up society. According to the LMP, it will be a real opportunity to create homes for families if the financial situation of families improves if wages are made for a living. Access to housing, keeping young people at home, and increasing children's childbearing requires an immediate pay gap. In addition to a significant increase in wages, we see the solution to the dramatic housing situation in the construction of public housing and in the issue of existing real estate. The owner of nearly half a million vacant properties should be interested in renting the property, for example if the rent could be supplemented on a social basis. In addition, a green investment fund would be long overdue, from which renovations to increase energy efficiency could be financed, not in public buildings, but in residential housing. Overall, we believe that the idea of NOK is not realistic at all. Who would put their money in Hungary today in a system similar to a consumer group, which is controlled by the MNB? Who would want an apartment in an uncertain future in 10-15 years? Who would want to get a job with a higher income than he would, while he could wait his turn? Who would be willing to put everything on the same page for a long time to make large payments, and if things didn't work out the way you imagined, you'd get your savings in 15 years? Think about it, and I'd rather have the law revoked. Thank you for your attention.
u2016-03-30-40	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. This concludes the written statements of Members. Interventions by push-button representatives will be held. I would like to take the floor first from the Fidesz Group to Mr Béla Turi-Kovács. Here you go, Congressman.
u2016-03-30-41	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. It seems from the speeches that there may be two matches between the opposition and the ruling party. On the one hand, both sides see and clearly see that, as a result of the last quarter of a century, in the housing situation in Hungary, a situation has emerged where changes and positive changes are inevitable. I think that there is also a second consensus, namely that there are also differences in the situation of small towns, medium-sized cities, metropolitan cities and Budapest, even within regions. Therefore, the government must seek and, in my view, also seek to try, in different ways and methods, to remedy the shortage of housing in individual areas and to help them to be replaced. I think that the CSOK was an opportunity that would clearly provide large families with an opportunity that, first and foremost - and if we measure it well - would be effective for smaller settlements, I believe, where there will be access to housing at affordable prices, where the CSOK and the associated preferential loan facility will provide real housing opportunities. Today, the opposition's comment on this CSOK is merely that the detailed conditions are not sufficiently known. [[Interviews from the ranks of the MSZP, including Lajos Korózs: A little more!]] I believe that an initiative with such a great impact and very fundamental changes for the future, bringing fundamental changes for large families, will require a time-out, which I think should be given. The situation with NOK is different. I think this is because the government has recognised that it is not possible to resolve the housing situation by means of state resources and state options alone. I believe that those capital options, but in particular those civilian savings that are still available today, should be able to be used, grouped and used as best as possible after the grouping. I fully agree with that, and Mr President of the Republic has also made his objections in this direction that the guarantees of savings must be as secure as possible; as far as it is possible for businesses of this kind of business. For my part, I also agree that putting state guarantees in this regard in terms of repayment would be a very big mistake. Today, it is quite widespread - and that is why I asked to speak today to say this - that the risk elements will ultimately be taken up by the state, so in Hungarian: we, the community, will take it. [[10.50]] I don't think it's operational in the long run. The commitment of risk elements, specifically the position there, is clearly one where the contracting parties are primarily responsible. The State cannot assume a position in such situations where it would, for example, provide guarantee elements in the case of a poorly concluded contract. Guarantee elements may come to the fore if there are violations of law and if there is a state responsibility in this violation. However, I am convinced that it does not follow from the law. With regard to guarantee elements, I still see an opportunity to increase these elements. Basically, in my legal concept, these elements should be included in the law. However, in cases where there is a specific economic activity to be pursued by a law, as in the case at hand, there should be a wider possibility for the Government Decree. However, this is exceptional in my view. In general, the elements, warranty elements, must be incorporated into the law, ensuring that the legislator has insight and, where appropriate, has an opportunity to amend them. Otherwise, the options for amendment have fallen. Here, it is necessary for the government to review these options. What do I mean? If we have been able to prescribe that certain elements of certain banking activities should already be included in the contract, not in small letters, but in such a way as to make it clear to the contracting parties, I think that such standards should also be applied here. The Government decree shall specify elements of the contract which shall not be absent from the contract. The elements that clearly draw attention to risks and hazards should be identified. It should be clear to both parties what they are and it should also be clarified how certain insurance options can reduce this or even eliminate it. Finally, I am also convinced that this is a new element that does not complete this housing program and the housing program, but can only be one element. This action must be continued by the government, with new and new elements, which will be taken into account in the coming time, with which I began my speech, the differences depending on the size of the regions and settlements, the resulting economic differences. It cannot be the goal, I think, that this is clearly seen and understood by the government, that a large and significant exodus from parts of the country will take place in another direction. It is necessary to ensure the conditions of residence that we can provide with favourable laws. [[It's constant noise.]] Last but not least, this House, I must draw attention to something. We have seen it many times over the past period, and I think that in the future we should deviate from this practice, that today there is the risk of a speech, with the risk element that the time table should be watched without interruption. I think that the time-frame negotiation is necessary in Parliament, otherwise we would give obstruction an unlimited opportunity, but these elements, I ask, in the future, we will try to define it well and in such a way that opinions and counter-opinions can be completely conflicted. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-03-30-42	Thank you very much, Congressman. The next speaker from the Jobbik Group is Mr Dániel Z. Kárpát, who has applied for a repeated speech. Here you go, Congressman.
u2016-03-30-43	Mr President, Dear House, While the government has forgotten to elaborate on the detailed rules of NOK, we do not know what will happen if a intermediary company falls for people's money, my fellow Member György Szilágyi pointed out in a good way who will face these people from the pro-government benches, if they are in a situation such as that which was not so long ago damaged by foreign currency credit, that the government has paid attention to a point of insurrection, and we would like to call you to delete it. After all, how can the support be taken into account by refugees, protected people, as a summary: migrants, and for the second time the government makes the blatant mistake of including migrants in the system of the CSOK on the basis of so-called EU directives, and now it does not explicitly exclude this in the NOK system. However, according to European professional lawyers' interpretations and European judicial advice, the maximum amount of a basic social package can be given to those who have or have received a positive application, but these extended subsidies from the Hungarian taxpayers' money should not, in my view, be made available to migrants. It should not be possible for Hungarian taxpayers to benefit from a mass of discounts, which are not only not entitled to do so, but also, where appropriate, by them, to imagine the preservation or maintenance of the dominance of Hungarians in the Carpathian Basin. Therefore, as in the case of the CSOK, we call on you not only to set up a financial guarantee fund behind your entire system, if you already want to kick this through Parliament, but to exclude all kinds of migrants from this discount mass, because Hungarian taxpayers and Hungarian voters have not given their blessing in any form. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2016-03-30-44	Thank you very much, Congressman. Member László Szakács asked for the floor from the MSZP Group to the burden of the time frame available.
u2016-03-30-45	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I'll be brief and I'll follow the time frame. I would like to respond to the speech of our fellow Member Béla Turi-Kovács. What you've said here is very logical and something worth arguing about, whether or not on time. The amendments that should be included in the law as guarantee elements, we always push for them. Anything more than what we have now would be very good, my fellow Member, we will not vote on this law in ten minutes, and we do not have the opportunity to do so. Either take it off the agenda or don't vote for it. Thank you very much.
u2016-03-30-46	Thank you very much, Congressman. I would like to ask my fellow Members if they still wish to speak in the remaining timeframe. [[No signal.]] I do not see an application; the debate is closed. I ask the Secretary of State if he wants to use the time frame of 3 minutes and 10 seconds to say the closing word. [[For signal:]] Yeah. I give the floor to Secretary of State Tuzson Bence. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2016-03-30-47	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. What I think is important is that one should come into such a debate, then read the legislation itself, and in such a case it may obviously interfere with their clarity with the knowledge of the law, but I consider this to be an important fact, and allow me to answer one or two questions in this regard. [[It's constant noise.]] One is the question of deposit guarantee, which is very mixed up here with investor protection, so we are talking about two separate concepts, otherwise from a financial market or from a legal point of view. But in the event that we want to put such insurance on a non-market participant, this should not arise, since there is a different type of legislation, a different background behind such protection than when we are talking about protection behind a non-market operator. The question was whether it was worth creating a separate form of insurance for this. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that if we are to create a form of insurance in this regard, we need to imagine a large community. So if there are thousands of such national home-building communities, tens of thousands of members, then it makes sense to talk about this, because if only a few, ten, a hundred or even a few hundred of them are created, then the obligation to pay here will be such as to exceed, by the way, the amount of the deposit, as there must be such a deposit that, in the case of the collapse of such a company, can ensure insurance. Therefore, in such cases, the system of internal guarantees is always preferred by civil law and economic law in these cases, and this is also the way in which this type of legislation should be drawn up. I have also made a list of the types of guarantees that I need and now have: on the one hand, personal, organisational, financial, maintenance, payment, other operational and supervisory guarantees. Therefore, this guarantee scheme should be defined in such a way as to ensure as far as possible that those involved at the end of the procedure [[It's constant noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] At the end of the period or at the end of the period, they must have access to housing and must be guaranteed. Therefore, I would like to draw attention and briefly point out that there is a system of support for used apartments - László Szakács put this up - because we were the ones who significantly increased the part of the CSOK that applies to specifically used apartments, so for one child 600 thousand forints, for two children 1 million forints 400 thousand forints, for three children now 2 million forints 200 thousand forints, and for four children 2 million forints 750 thousand forints for those who wish to buy or renovate and expand used apartments, because this benefit is also due to enlargement. [[11.00]] Finally, I would like to lay down that the basic purpose of this legislation is to ensure that as many Hungarians as possible, as many Hungarian families as possible, have housing. I think that this legislation guarantees this objective as much as possible. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-03-30-48	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I would like to inform my fellow Members that decisions will be taken today. Now I ask my fellow Members to take their seats, to check that their cards have been properly placed in the voting machines, so that we can continue our work. After all, there are decisions to be made. [[It's a short break. Move.]] I would also ask my fellow Members to take their seats and put their cards in the voting machine and continue our work. It follows a decision by the President of the Republic on the proposal for a legislative amendment to the National Housing Communities Act, adopted on 17 March 2016 by the Parliament for consideration, and the final vote. Text of the Act sent to the President of the Republic for signature T/9660/6. Letter from the President of the Republic No T/9660/7. On the parliamentary IT network, it is available to all of them. The proposed amendment of the Legislative Committee T/9660/9. and T/9660/10. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I would like to inform you that, in accordance with the provisions of the House Rules, there is no possibility to maintain a proposal amending the decision and to request a separate vote. First, we decide on an amendment to the Legislative Committee. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether the Legislative Committee accepts T/9660/9. Amendment No 3 of the European Parliament and of the Council. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the amendment by 110 votes in favour, 52 against and without abstentions. It is now the final vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts the law on national home-building communities, which has not been published, with the amendments that have just been adopted. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament adopted the law by 109 votes in favour, 53 against, without abstention. The 2015 CV on the debt settlement of natural persons follows a series of steps. T/9541. Final vote of bill No 1. Since no amendments have been tabled to the proposal, we are now deciding on the text of the bill submitted. I therefore ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts T/9541. Bill No. 1. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament adopted the bill by 127 votes in favour, 29 against and 5 abstentions. Dear Parliament, The 2011 CXCV on public finances follows. T/9372. Final vote of bill No 1. However, in the light of a request for action, we must also decide to maintain a proposal for an amendment. I would like to inform you that the Rules of the House 48th. § 4 of the Jobbik Group proposed the continuation of Amendment 2 and 3. That's what we're gonna decide first. Amendment 2 is proposed by Mrs Loránt Hegedűs. I respectfully ask the Parliament whether it maintains the proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 53 votes in favour, 110 against and three abstentions. Amendment 3 is also proposed by Mrs Loránt Hegedűs. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains the proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 53 votes to 114, with three abstentions. As the Parliament did not maintain a proposal for an amendment, nor did the amendment summarised for the proposal, we decided on the text of the bill submitted in the final vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts T/9372. Bill No. 1. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament adopted the bill by 114 votes in favour, 56 against and without abstention. Dear Parliament, It follows that the investment in maintaining the capacity of the Paks Nuclear Power Plant and the amendment of certain laws related to it will be carried out in 2015 in accordance with Annex VII. T/9632 on the amendment of the Act Final vote of bill No 1. We also need to decide whether to maintain a proposal to amend in the light of a request for expression of interest. I would like to inform you that the Rules of the House 48th. Pursuant to paragraph 4 of Section 3 of the LMP Group, the Group of Jobbik proposed the continuation of Amendment 2. That's what we're gonna decide first. Amendment 3 is proposed by Mrs Bernadett Szél. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains the proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 58 votes in favour, 113 against and 1 abstention. Amendment 2 is proposed by Mr Lajos Kepli. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains the proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 49 votes in favour, 116 against and 8 abstentions. As the Parliament did not maintain a proposal for an amendment, nor did the amendment summarised for the proposal, we decided on the text of the bill submitted in the final vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts T/9632. Bill No. 1. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament adopted the bill by 114 votes to 53, with five abstentions. We now come to the T/9298 Agreement between the Government of Hungary and the Government of Mongolia on the visa waiver of their diplomatic and service/official passport nationals. Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. T/9298/6 and T/9298/7. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. We are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether the Legislative Committee accepts T/9298/6. A summary of the amendment proposed by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the National Assembly adopted the summary amendment by 175 votes in favour, with no votes against and no abstentions. [[11.10]] It is now the final vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts T/9298/8. A single proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the single proposal with 175 votes in favour, no votes against and no abstentions. Next up is the 2001 XLVI on consular protection. T/8838. Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. T/8838/7. T8838/8. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. We are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether the Legislative Committee accepts T/8838/7. A summary of the amendment proposed by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the National Assembly adopted the summary amendment by 176 votes in favour, with no votes against and no abstentions. It is now the final vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts T/8838/9. A single proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the single proposal with 175 votes in favour, no votes against and no abstentions. The following is the H/9446 on the commemoration of the 225th anniversary of the birth of Count István Széchenyi. Decision on the proposal for a summary amendment to the decision and the final vote. H/9446/8. H/9446/9. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. We are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether the Legislative Committee accepts H/9446/8. A summary of the amendment proposed by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the summary amendment by 174 votes in favour, no votes against, with 2 abstentions. It is now the final vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts H/9446/10. A single proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the single proposal with 174 votes in favour, no votes against, with 2 abstentions. It follows the H/8343 on the declaration of the year 2017 as the Memorial Year of János Arany. Decision on the proposal for a summary amendment to the decision and the final vote. The legislative committee's proposal for a summary amendment H/8343/11. and the summary report is H/8343/12. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. We are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether the Legislative Committee will accept H/8343/11. A summary of the amendment proposed by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the summary amendment by 174 votes in favour, no votes against, with 2 abstentions. It is now the final vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts H/8343/13. A single proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the single proposal with 174 votes in favour, no votes against, with 2 abstentions. Dear House, H/9285 on the Day of Hungarian Higher Education. Decision on the proposal for a summary amendment to the decision and the final vote. H/9285/5. H/9285/6. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. We are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether the Legislative Committee accepts H/9285/5. A summary of the amendment proposed by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the summary amendment by 173 votes in favour, 2 against and without abstentions. It is now the final vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts H/9285/7. A single proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the single proposal by 172 votes to two, with no abstentions. T/9636 on the amendment of certain laws concerning the Erzsébet programme follows. Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. T/9636/6. and a summary report by T/9636/7. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I would like to inform you that the Rules of the House 48th. Pursuant to paragraph 4 of Section 4, Jobbik's group proposed the continuation of Amendment 2. That's what we'll decide first. Amendment No 2 was proposed by Mr Sebestyén. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains the proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] The Jobbik Group proposed that Amendment 2 be maintained. That's what we'll decide first. Amendment No 2 was proposed by Mr Sebestyén. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains the proposal. Please vote. (Vote.) I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 56 votes in favour, 117 against and 2 abstentions. As the Parliament has not maintained an amendment, we are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether the Legislative Committee accepts T/9636/6. A summary of the amendment proposed by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the summary amendment by 119 votes in favour, 30 against and 27 abstentions. It is now the final vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts T/9636/9. A single proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the single proposal by 118 votes to 53, with four abstentions. Next up is the 1996 LXXXI on corporate tax and dividend tax. Act T/9621 amending Act I of 2004 on Sport Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. T/9621/7. T/9621/8. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. We are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether the Legislative Committee accepts T/9621/7. A summary of the amendment proposed by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the summary amendment by 141 votes in favour, 6 against and 27 abstentions. It is now the final vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts T/9621/9. A single proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the single proposal by 141 votes in favour, 34 against and without abstentions. It follows that T/9601 on the implementation of the Union Customs Code is hereby amended as follows: Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. T/9601/5. T/9601/6. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. We are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether the Legislative Committee accepts T/9601/5. A summary of the amendment proposed by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the summary amendment with 178 votes in favour, no votes against and no abstentions. [[11.20]] It is now the final vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts T/9601/7. A single proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the single proposal with 178 votes in favour, no votes against and no abstentions. Next up is the 2008 XL on gas supply. T/9633. Final vote of bill No 1. However, in the light of a request for action, we must also decide to maintain a proposal for an amendment. I would like to inform you that the Rules of the House 48th. Pursuant to paragraph 4 of Section 4, Jobbik's group proposed the continuation of Amendment 2. That's what we'll decide first. Amendment 2 is proposed by Mr Lajos Kepli. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains the proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 26 votes in favour, 124 against and 28 abstentions. As the Parliament did not maintain a proposal for an amendment, nor did the amendment summarised for the proposal, we decided on the text of the bill submitted in the final vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts T/9633. Bill No. 1. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the bill by 140 votes in favour, 29 against and 7 abstentions. Dear Parliament, We are now deciding on a series of proposals. I would like to remind you that yesterday the Parliament has already negotiated this. Therefore, I ask you whether the series of subjects will be included by Mr Dániel Z. Kárpát, betterman, and his fellow Members, in order to reduce the VAT burden on basic foodstuffs, the 2007 CXXVII on general sales tax. T/9334. a proposal for a regulation tabled by the Court of Justice of the European Union. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament did not include the bill with 57 votes in favour, 114 votes against and two abstentions. Dear Parliament, I declare that on behalf of the rapporteur, Mr Nándor Csepreghy was initiated by CLIX of 2012 on postal services. T/9785. Adjournment of the trial of bill No 1. I would like to ask Mr István Tiba to present his rapporteur's proposal. [[Noise. The president's ringing the bell.]]
u2016-03-30-49	Mr László Kövér, President of the Parliament, Budapest. Mr President, Regulation No 10/2014 on certain house rules Parliamentary resolution 22. Acting in accordance with paragraph 1 of Article 22 of the Act of 30 March, CLIX of 2012 on postal services is included as item on the agenda of the Parliament's meeting. T/9785. I propose to adjourn the trial of bill No 1. Adjournment is necessary because prior to the general debate it is appropriate to hold a five-party consultation on the bill. Budapest, 30 March 2016 Yours sincerely, Nándor Csepreghy.
u2016-03-30-50	Thank you very much, Mr. Notary. Dear Parliament, Rule 22 of the Rules of Procedure On the basis of Article 1 (1) of the Rules of Procedure, the Parliament shall decide on the adjournment of the meeting of the agenda item without debate, by raising its hands. Anyone who agrees with the rapporteur's proposal, please vote by raising your hands. [[Vote.]] The Parliament shall decide on the adjournment of the meeting of the agenda item without debate, by raising its hands. Anyone who agrees with the rapporteur's proposal, please vote by raising your hands. (Vote. ) Thank you very much, this is a visible majority. I declare that the visible majority of Parliament has accepted the proposal. I would like to inform the honourable Members and gentlemen that, as decided, the general debate on the proposal will not take place this evening accordingly. Dear Parliament, We've reached the end of the decisions. I'm ordering a two-minute technical break. Then we will continue our work in debates. [[It's a short break. Several Members leave the room during the break.]] I would ask Secretary Bence Rétvári to take his place in the horseshoe so that we can begin the debate on the item on the agenda. [[It's happening.]] Thank you very much. I would like to ask my fellow Members who wish to take part in the debate to take their seats so that we can continue our work and all my fellow Members who are leaving the Chamber as soon as possible to carry out their meetings outside the Chamber in order to carry out their urgent official affairs. [[Noise.]] We now have a general debate on the bill amending Act X of 2006 on cooperatives until closure. By our fellow Member, Kristóf Szatmáry Fidesz T/9715. The submission submitted on the parliamentary IT network is available to all of them. First, I give the floor to Mr Kristóf Szatmáry, the rapporteur of the item on the agenda, within a 30-minute time frame. I would like to ask my fellow Members, who are having an important meeting in the horseshoe - Mr Rubovszky - to come to their seats. [[Dr. György Rubovszky and Dr. István Vitányi take up their seats.]] Thank you very much. Here you go, Congressman. [[11.30]]
u2016-03-30-51	Thank you very much for the floor. Dear House, Mr President, I have 30 minutes at my disposal... - although the case concerns tens of thousands of young people, but it may be so clear that the exposé does not necessarily require 30 minutes of appreciation for the proposal that has been tabled and its justification to this House. In Hungary, about 180-200 thousand students undertake some type of work each year, a significant part of which is realized in a school cooperative for at least 130 thousand people. In parallel, more than 10 percent of the members of the school cooperatives, about 15 thousand persons, carry out traineeships related to their higher education studies, as, of course, under the National Higher Education Act, final examination is conditional upon the completion of the traineeship required by the higher education institution in accordance with its order and manner. Of the 130,000 members of the school cooperative, there are at least 80,000 students who can choose between 3-4 thousand jobs. About 10-15 thousand of these work is carried out which also meets the requirements of the current rules of professional practice, which must be completed for the final examination, i.e. there are currently no professional places for higher education students that meet the requirements in force and no full coverage is expected within a few years, so the active participation of students in the holding of professional training places cannot be avoided. Another problem in the current legislation is that students cannot recognise these jobs as traineeships, partly because the higher education institution does not accept this work as a professional practice, which, I think, is an extremely unfair situation, since the educational institution cannot, unfortunately, provide a professional training place for all its students in its own organisation. What's the problem? The school association cannot justify it, because the school cooperative does not meet the criteria for a professional training place, such as professional premises, tools, professionals, and educational plans, but this is not strange, as the student association is not organized for this kind of work, but essentially offers work for students. But the recipient of the service, i.e. the company where the work is actually carried out, cannot justify these work through student associations, because the recipient of the service is not in a relationship with the students, as the students are in a relationship with the student association. Therefore, the amending proposal not only eliminates the current unfair situation for students who work in accordance with professional practice in addition to their studies, but it is also hoped that the number of students for whom education institutions or themselves have to provide the professional training place for obtaining a diploma will be reduced. In addition, the amendment may lead to an increase or increase in the number of companies who can participate in the practical training of students from companies that could not do so on their own, but with a significant share of their administrative obligations being taken over by the school cooperative, their accession to these traineeships can be expected. In addition, the proposal aims to ensure that, in addition to the guarantees corresponding to these results, the same control mechanisms can be applied in compliance with the rules applicable to other professional training sites. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Parliament, Overall, the bill seeks to correct the controversial situation that the training place cannot justify internship because it does not qualify as an employer in this respect. The school association also cannot justify it, because it does not have the resources to register as a professional training place, that is to say, we hope that this simple, but at the moment it can improve the legal situation of practical life in such a way that it can effectively fulfil its professional practice for as many higher education students as possible through student associations. We are confident that this amendment will indeed help tens of thousands of students who are responsible enough at the moment to do work in addition to their studies, even through student associations. We hope that the proposal tabled will find support among my fellow Members. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-03-30-52	Thank you very much, Congressman. I will ask Mr László Palkovics, State Secretary, if he wishes to take the opportunity to speak on behalf of the government. It's got a 30-minute time frame. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2016-03-30-53	Thank you very much, Mr President. Dear Members, Ladies and Gentlemen, I would like to relate to the amendment that has been made. A very important element of the higher education strategy is the transfer of higher education knowledge to students that can be used relatively quickly in the labour market. The Hungarian higher education system is often accused of being too theoretical, so the period of integration of students in the corporate environment is long, one to two to three years, until they can work with the same efficiency as those there. That's what we've been trying to help in a number of ways. One is the identification of practical intensive courses, the condition of which is that at the time of their university studies, all students who study in such a place should spend a certain period of time at a practice venue, a practice venue. The other, partly in the amendment of the law and before it, is dual training in the strategy, which is also more than practical intensive training, in so far as the company is training the student not only for a few weeks, but also provides practical training that is practically equal to or close to the initial training period of the university period. Here, too, the role and importance of the training site, I think is outstanding. By checking the quality of the training sites, sector management uses its official function through the Education Office. In this situation, there is a gap that applies partly to cooperatives, student associations, and partly to consortiums of companies, namely if the student takes part in a practical training course where the partner who employed him is not the training venue itself, but this partner has organised practical training places, there is a legal gap in this regard. This amendment seeks to deal with the fact that the student association itself can appear as a partner, and through this other similar institutions, and otherwise this certificate can be issued. I think that, once the authority controls the partners with its instruments at all times, this can only have a positive impact, so I ask everyone to support this proposal. Thank you. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-03-30-54	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Now we're going to hear the speeches from the lead speaker. First, I give the floor to Mr Vinnai Győző, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group. The time frame is 15-15 minutes for everyone. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor. [[11.40]]
u2016-03-30-55	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, As we have heard from the rapporteur, this amending proposal addresses an important problem in relation to practical training and professional practice. We have also heard that on average 180 to 200 thousand students undertake some type of work every year, some two thirds of which work in school cooperatives, and of these two thirds about 10 percent, 14 to 15 thousand students do the traineeships related to their higher education, and since this is a prerequisite for final examination, this is an important problem, as we have heard from the Secretary of State, that this amending proposal addresses a legal gap. What is the purpose of this amendment? In my opinion, the professional conditions related to practical training, as defined by the higher education institution, are jointly ensured by the school cooperative and the recipient of the service. This is important because the school cooperative can become a training place that can be involved in practical training, so the circle that can justify traineeships is broadened. Somehow, the amendment puts it this way - allow me to quote the proposal to amend Act X of 2006 on Cooperatives:, the professional conditions related to practical training, as defined by the higher education institution, are jointly ensured by the school cooperative and the recipient of the service, as mentioned above, and continuing with paragraph 7:, in the case of practical training organised by the school cooperative, the professional practice may be justified by the school association, on the basis of a declaration from the recipient of the service, provided that the work requires the use of theoretical knowledge acquired by the student of the school cooperative in higher education training and the recipient of the service meets the requirements of the professional practice and the content of the work against professional practice by law. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Dear House, In my opinion, it is not only about remedying a legal gap, it is very important, but it is also about strengthening practical training, because - as we have heard from the Secretary of State - it is also in the higher education strategy that dual training, practical training, will be strengthened, and we will involve as many companies as possible in practical training, and therefore companies that will be included in this dual training or traineeship will have less administrative burden, and the school association will do so. Dear House, We initiated this amendment, and we say that we will solve a problem for thousands of students that is a problem for them, but not only for them, and we will put guarantee elements in this amendment. The adoption of the bill removes a material-technical barrier. Precisely, as the rapporteur said, the proposal facilitates the effective implementation of the traineeships of university-college students. We support this proposal, and I ask the opposition to do so. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-03-30-56	Thank you very much, Congressman. The lead speaker of the MSZP Group is Ms Anita Heringes. I give you the floor. Here you go, Congresswoman.
u2016-03-30-57	Thank you very much. The bill is a positive measure for students and students and can be supported from a labour market point of view. Therefore, our group will also support the bill, because it is felt and cannot be overlooked that we are talking about a typical majority, Fidesz-KDNP legislation, where it can be felt that it is helping some, perhaps closer, more friendly school associations, because these are the school associations that have this issue, because they have a higher number of students with higher education. The will formulated in the bill facilitates the acquisition of apprenticeships for students and students. The proposal ensures that the professional work carried out within the framework of the student cooperative is accepted and recognised as a professional practice. This measure can help students and students to gain a wider range of professional experience compared to now, as many employers are unable or unable to appear as a practical place at the moment. For this reason, from the point of view of students and students, and to help them, we will support this proposal, and we very much hope that what Lajos Kósa has tabled in the past - which you have since been rejected - is that you will be removed from the labour code from the school cooperative or student work, because this would reduce their rights and take away from them the freedom and sick money, which I think is the same right for them at the moment as for any employee; I do not think Prime Minister Viktor Orbán would commend you if this proposal were to be put forward again, because then this 200,000 workers would fall out of the employment data of the KSH, far from showing such beautiful data. We very much hope that this proposal will be forgotten the way Lajos Kósa withdrew it after the submission. Thank you.
u2016-03-30-58	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, The lead speaker of the Jobbik Group is Mr Gergely Farkas, Member of the Group. Here you go.
u2016-03-30-59	Thank you very much for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, On behalf of the Jobbik faction, I can assure you that we will support this proposal. We were on the committee, but this was all about us holding this proposal so important that the rapporteur could have been present at the committee meeting and could have justified this proposal there, but instead there was no word about what this proposal would be about. But let's get this over with. Indeed, we believe that if it is easier for just a few thousand people from the point of view of young people, so that they can perform the traineeship required for their degree, then why not, of course, we support it. At the same time, I would like to draw attention to the problem of traineeships: we believe that it is a good thing that we make traineeships easier to achieve, but there are very serious quality problems in the case of traineeships. I am looking at Mr State Secretary on this, and I am asking you if you have openness to opening up this issue, because we believe that in order to truly fulfil your objective of the system of traineeships, and indeed to increase the knowledge that young people need for their degrees and for the future job position, it would require very serious changes, to say, reforms. What am I thinking? We know very well how widespread it is to employ these young people to do jobs that do not increase their preparedness with any professional knowledge, coffee brewing could be classified through photocopying. Despite the fact that a person does this kind of work for several weeks, in the same way, in most cases the places providing traineeships justify these few weeks of work. What could be the solution here? - not just the criticism, not the problem. For example, a solution could be to ask young people for a kind of feedback on how they felt about the practical place in question. If there were such a feedback system - and in many other cases it works - then it would be possible for a young person seeking a future internship to choose, on the basis of this feedback system, what kind of place, what kind of employer it is worth to go to in order to complete his internship. Because if you can see from the workplace that the previous trainees here have also given feedback on the basis of which young people were not used in this place to improve their professional skills, then the young person can make a decision based on this. So I ask you if you are open to introducing an online IT feedback system for higher education students, where you could give young people feedback from the workplace providing traineeships. It is also a very big problem that young people find it difficult to find a traineeship. This bill, in a manner of speaking, serves this purpose, promotes this goal, but we believe that it is not sufficient. It would be necessary for young people to be able to find an employer's place where they can do their internship, and to be able to get help in the necessary administration, because the issue of administration is a very important issue, too, so many young people have to break the knife, which they have to fill out right now, with whom, how, where to hand it out. It would also be necessary to build a system that facilitates this and really gives young people the knowledge they need to get into work. [[11.50]] It would also be necessary to motivate employers in different ways in order to receive trainees. It is very difficult for young people to find these places, and that is why it would be important for the government to include incentive schemes for various grants with tax benefits, which was also an initiative on your part. We consider this to be little, we would like to extend it so that employers feel that they need to deal with an intern, not a burden, but that they should be considered financially, because we know that many times it motivates them, whether from a different point of view, but it is worth taking interns. So there would be a number of such problems, and I would like to ask the Secretary of State, the Members of the Council, to deal with the system of traineeships on a systemic basis, because it is a good thing that this amendment will help thousands of students to carry out their practice more easily, which is necessary for their degree, but if this is not a quality practical programme, then we will not achieve a goal, then employers will continue to impose unrealistic expectations for career beginners that they will expect from them even multiannual practices. The reason for this is that they expect multi-annual practice because they also know that a few months of practice during the university does not prepare them for a professional knowledge that could be useful to them, which would be relevant to them, and that is why they impose unrealistic conditions for beginners. If we could improve traineeships in terms of quality, we could, however, achieve that this is not the kind of unfulfilled conditions a young person should meet when he is looking for his first job. Therefore, in addition to saying once again that we will support this proposal, I would like to assure you that I would also ask the Government to address the issue of traineeships in a comprehensive way, if not within the framework of this debate, but we would be open to a dialogue, we have many ideas and proposals. This is an area that is very important for young people, and we have seen that over the past few years you have been in an inadequate way with this issue, and you have not felt the weight of the problem in this area. So we would like to take the initiative to have partners in this area so that we can jointly improve the system of traineeships for young people. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2016-03-30-60	Thank you very much, Congressman. Ladies and gentlemen, We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. On behalf of the Government, Secretary of State László Palkovics asked for the floor. Here you go.
u2016-03-30-61	Thank you very much. Thank you all for your support. I think we are talking about one important thing: the practical training of future workers. I would like to respond briefly to the question raised by Mr Wolf. The weight of the problem, I think, is perceived by the government. This is also shown by the fact that, in part, by amending dual training and partly by amending the Government Decree, we have established a monitoring mechanism that you have mentioned, that it is indeed the places of practice that take up a student only because of the hope of some kind of future employee, but do not deal with their training, so get out of here, so the Education Office has a complex process in this regard. In the case of dual training, which is a more complex form of training, the Dual Training Council, which consists mainly of company professionals, is the body that otherwise deals with the certification of these training sites, but we would like to put even more emphasis on this in the future. We also agree, and I think that the government has done a great deal in this, that companies who take on a listener are not only motivated by the student's knowledge of what he needs later or to become an employee, so that the vocational training contribution can be described, and even the last amendment, companies who do not have enough to pay, can claim the costs of students in practical training on the basis of an appropriate algorithm. In technical higher education, this is now four hundred fifty-some thousand forints, and it is the one-day part of this century that can be reclaimed. I'm guessing it's a motive. Of course, we would like to increase this, and we will certainly deal with this in the future. Thank you. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-03-30-62	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Mr Sándor Szabó's speech now follows. The time frame for you is 15 minutes. Here you go, Congressman.
u2016-03-30-63	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Szabolcs, not Alexander.
u2016-03-30-64	My apologies.
u2016-03-30-65	No problem, just for the record, so we don't fool him, the historian I don't know, in a hundred years' time, reading the record.
u2016-03-30-66	I'm sorry again.
u2016-03-30-67	No problem. Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, I had a few questions on the committee, too, because, frankly, I didn't really understand the motivation of this proposal, but now I'm starting to understand the way I'm listening to the gentlemen here from the pro-government benches. Of course, it is obviously about the fact that the Secretary of State has come, and very strongly began to say that dual training is a very important development direction, but obviously there is not enough place for these students to be placed. This is strange, by the way, because the Secretary of State said in the Cultural Committee, not once, several times, that dual training starts when one or more companies specifically request it from the institution and the specific area of expertise, and this assumes that then he will also provide the space for practical training. Then something's wrong. That is why I already had a big question in me, which is more to the point of referring to the author, who has done this survey, and from which it comes out that we are talking about more than 10,000 young potential adults working in student associations, but the work done by him meets the legal criteria that can otherwise be accepted as a professional practice, just as the author has said here, the legal conditions are such that this cannot be done. I wonder who made this because I was a member of several student associations when I was a university student, I went to student associations regularly, I took a job, I worked in a fast food restaurant, a cold store, a tape, I selected various documents, and we grouped them based on a number of documents and such consumer IDs, I worked in Matáv's inquiry, and there were only and only such jobs. I'll tell you honestly, based on my many years of experience, there was a no that would then have met any requirement that would have allowed those jobs to be accounted for in professional practice. I believe that the number of these is very high right now, I just want to know who made it, because if the student associations gave me this information, they obviously did it because they wanted to involve more children, young adults, because I don't want to have children; it's obviously an opportunity for them, so I'm interested in who made it. If this is an independent survey, I will raise my hand, and I will absolutely not object to this opportunity to give them this opportunity. Thank you very much.
u2016-03-30-68	Thank you very much, and again, I apologize for baptizing you, I had no intention of doing so. László Palkovics, State Secretary. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2016-03-30-69	Thank you. I would like to respond briefly to Szabolcs Szabó and really not to engage in a deep professional debate. I don't think that the lack of training places is going to hold up. Partly the numbers we've seen show it, but the dual training, which is a much more complicated training, I'll give you some numbers there. In 2015, when this first started, around 200 companies employed 500 students; this was the first year. This year, starting in September 2016, the number of companies increased to 600 and offered 3,000 seats. The popularity of dual training, although admission numbers, applications will soon become public, obviously these are only applications, about 10,000 students have applied for the dual training that 600 companies have announced in 3,000 locations. I think that this form of training certainly justifies the fact that the students have understood exactly why they should participate in such an environment during their university studies, because they are gaining knowledge that they do not know elsewhere. That is why it is important to further develop these training sites and have an essential qualification, so the company can understand what this means for him. I think that the number of training sites will not be a problem in this sense. Thank you.
u2016-03-30-70	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I will ask my fellow Members if anyone else wishes to speak. Yes, Congressman Gergely Farkas of the Jobbik Group. Here you go, Congressman. [[12.00]]
u2016-03-30-71	Thank you for the floor. I just want to respond to Mr. Secretary of State. We have fully supported dual training, we have explained this several times, but I find it a little misleading that this is all you refer to when we talk about traineeships and their problems. You know, you said it here in part, but I also ask you that a few thousand people are affected by dual training at the moment, and there are over 300,000 students in higher education. So I think that it is not possible to reduce these problems entirely on the basis of dual training. You mentioned other things, but I feel a little exaggerated about dual education, because it affects a very, very narrow layer of higher education students, 2-3 percent. Hopefully, this will be more in the coming years, and you will be working on it, and we will be happy to do so, but again, we are talking about more than 300,000 young people. Therefore, I would ask you to focus on the issue of traineeships. Dual training is important, but it is far from covering this problem, which I am here even in detail, because not entirely, but here I was trying to say in my brief speech. Thank you very much. [[It's a rare round of applause from the Jobbik benches.]]
u2016-03-30-72	Thank you very much, Congressman. The next speaker was Mr Szabó Szabolcs. Here you go.
u2016-03-30-73	Thank you very much. I would only respond briefly to the Secretary of State. Of course, we agree, and I'm not saying that dual training is wrong or it doesn't have to be extended. We also said at the committee meeting that we would support, by the way, that, in addition to certain constraints, the dual training should be completed. As a matter of fact, the Secretary of State has confirmed with these numbers exactly what I said, that we do not yet have enough training places to handle this crowd. Obviously, this needs to be improved and the rest. The only question that remains in me is whether school cooperatives can provide such an opportunity. Joining my fellow Member, Mr Gergely Farkas, I would like to say that, indeed, this is a general problem. I, for example, am a geographer who develops territory and settlements, and obviously our students' internships cannot be solved in any way through a student association, obviously in their case it won't even come up. Of course, we also experience that it is becoming increasingly difficult to find the institutions where we can place students, and inside the institutions, departments and institutions, it is indeed a serious burden that we need to solve this problem somehow. So obviously this is a more general problem in higher education than dual training. Thank you.
u2016-03-30-74	Thank you very much, Congressman. Thank you for your three hours of cooperation. I give the chair to Vice-President István Jakab and at the same time to Mr László Palkovics, State Secretary. Here you go. [[István Jakab, vice-president of the Parliament takes the chair.]]
u2016-03-30-75	Thank you very much. Only one last reaction: we refer to dual training because dual training has the most complicated structure, the regulation itself, what conditions a training facility must meet, whether it is dual training, whether it is a longer-term school-cooperative training or a six-week course at a company, in this sense the regulation must be the same. I would like to highlight one aspect of the form of a school cooperative. This is about the fact that the school cooperative organises companies where students are trained, and not necessarily only one company will have student training, but more than one company. In the case of small and medium-sized enterprises, not all of them have the ability to carry out a full type of training on their own, but if this is organised by the school association so that more companies, students, can change between companies, but while the employee of the school cooperative offers the student the opportunity to work with a particular employment or student status in several companies. That is why it was necessary to amend the law in order to clarify this. Otherwise, there are a number of other similar initiatives aimed at the same thing, which means that a consortium of companies is carrying out training, sharing those burdens and trying to pass on their collective knowledge to the student, which is necessary to be a good professional. [[It's a rare round of applause from the pro-government ranks.]]
u2016-03-30-76	Welcome, fellow Members. Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, I am asking if anyone else would like to speak on this item. [[No signal.]] I don't see any contact. The general debate is closed. I'll ask the Secretary of State if he wants to react. [[Dr. László Palkovics indicates no.]] You do not wish to, Mr Secretary of State has already made his point. Dear Parliament, The amendment proposals can be submitted by 4 p.m. on Friday. Dear Parliament, A general debate on the draft law on procurement for defence and security will follow until closure. The government referral is T/9786. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, I give the floor to Mr Tamás Vargha, Secretary of State of the Ministry of Defence, author of the item on the agenda. Mr. Secretary.
u2016-03-30-77	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, Certainly, every Member of Parliament, regardless of the part of the horseshoe, agrees that a nation, a country, has the right to defend itself. We are certainly also all in agreement that this protection must be prepared, and I think that there is no debate between us either that preparations can and must be guaranteed, among other things, through the purchase of defence equipment. Defence procurement in Hungary is currently governed by a government regulation and, as my fellow Members will certainly remember, the recently adopted 2015 CXLIII on public procurement. In contrast to the previous legislation, the law refers the regulation of procurement for defence and security purposes to a level of law, given that the EU Defence Procurement Directive sets rules for procurement in defence and security areas, irrespective of their policy rules, separate from classic public procurement. The basic provisions of the bill define the interpretation framework of the law based on previous rules on defence and classified procurement, in particular with regard to defence and national security interests, as well as the protection of classified information and the efficient use of public funds. The proposal before Parliament contains the following new elements compared to the regulation at the previous regulation level. In order to fully transpose the EU Defence Directive, the concept of contracting authority, the proposal does not list specific bodies as falling within its scope, but defines the range of contracting entities through types of bodies, including as contracting entities as regards security procurement. Unlike previous legislation, this proposal regulates separate national and specific EU procedures. In addition, it lays down the law applicable to public procurement which is mixed, i.e. partly covered by this Act, partly covered by the Public Procurement Act, or which contains elements which are excluded from this Act, and does so for both objective elements which cannot be separated and those which can be separated, but which are objectively the subject of a contract. The bill sets out the rules for the application or offer of several economic operators by joint participation, as well as the prohibitions on the concentration of economic operators within a procurement procedure. It also lays down rules for procurement to be carried out jointly by several contracting authorities with regard to the distribution of responsibilities and the cases in which contracting authorities from different Member States of the European Union jointly conduct procurement procedures. The proposal also provides for an obligation to retain the documents generated. As a novelty, the contracting authority shall, by means of the publication of a preliminary aggregated prospectus, make public the data relating to the procurement procedures planned for each of the articles covered by the law in the following 12 months. The bill sets out the mandatory and optional content elements of the invitation to initiate the procedure on the basis of the relevant provisions of the Public Procurement Act. As a novelty, the contracting authority shall require at least one candidate, tenderer or sub-contractor to take over or reach the dossier by electronic means as a request for participation or per offer. The definition of grounds for exclusion follows the wording in accordance with the Public Procurement Act for the sake of a uniform framework for directives. At the same time, the proposal sets out further grounds for refusal of security procurement to be imposed on economic operators, and adds additional elements to the exclusions provided for in the general rules in order to avoid national security risks. This proposal regulates the submission of tenders and requests to participate, as well as the resolution of tenders and requests to participate, and allows economic operators to make up for the lack of tenders or requests to participate in the award process in the course of their criticism. [[12.10]] A specific feature of defence procurement is the possibility of competitive tendering of subcontractors by a contracting entity. The bill defines the powers and responsibilities of the arbitration panel in the same way as the public procurement law. However, as regards the procedure of the arbitration panel, only the procedure for the request is allowed. The scope of the examination of the arbitration panel is bound by the bill to the content of the application and cannot be expanded beyond that. Dear Parliament, The deadline for transposition of the directive was 21 August 2011, and Hungary's transposition obligation was then fulfilled by the issuance of a Government Decree, and, as has been said, the new Public Procurement Act, which entered into force on 1 November 2015, referred the regulation of defence and security procurement, contrary to previous legislation, to the same level of EU legislation. By 21 August 2016, the European Commission shall review the implementation of the Defence Directive and report on it to the European Parliament and the Council, as required by the European Union Defence Directive. In this context, the Commission will assess, in particular, whether and to what extent the objectives of the Directive have been met with regard to the functioning of the internal market, the European defence equipment market and the European defence technology and industrial base, taking into account, inter alia, the situation of small and medium-sized enterprises. The basic provisions of the bill define the interpretation framework of the law on the basis of previous rules on defence and classified procurement. In addition to the principles of public procurement, provisions on the consideration of defence and national security interests and the protection of classified information and the efficient use of public funds are included. Ladies and gentlemen, The security of our country depends also on the excellent preparation of the organisations and the staff assigned to these tasks, but the security of our country depends also on the equipment of the organisations and staff assigned to this task. By adopting this law, the public procurement law will not be transformed. The change from the level of the government decree to the level of law was decided by the Parliament itself in 2015. The provisions of the new legislation guarantee not only compatibility with the directive of the European Union, but also, ultimately, the security of our nation through defence procurement. In view of this, I would ask my fellow Members to support the bill before you. Thank you for your kind attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-03-30-78	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Now we're going to hear the speeches from the lead speaker. I give the floor to Mr Simon Miklós, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group.
u2016-03-30-79	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, The Law on Public Procurement referred the regulation of procurement for defence and security purposes from the former level of government regulation to the level of law because the European Union's Defence Procurement Directive, separated from classic public procurement, determines the regulation of procurement in defence and security areas regardless of their directive. Accordingly, the protection directive should be transposed into the Hungarian legal system by the same level as the public procurement law. This will create an independent regulatory area. When establishing a European Union defence directive, Member States agreed to seek the gradual development of a European defence equipment market in the future. This type of cooperation is essential for strengthening the European defence technology and industrial base and for developing the military capacities necessary for the implementation of the European security and defence policy. The creation of a European defence equipment market can be achieved outside the establishment of an appropriate legislative framework. In the field of procurement, the security interests of the Member States and the obligations arising from the contract should be harmonised in order to achieve this objective. Member States should contribute to the development of a supplier base for the European defence market, in particular by supporting the participation of small and medium-sized enterprises and non-traditional suppliers in the European defence technology industrial base. It is important to promote sectoral cooperation and to encourage efficient and responsive subcontractors. The European Union has drawn up its draft directive accordingly. Ladies and gentlemen, As above, the government has prepared a bill on defence and security procurement. During the preparation of the draft, the current government regulation on defence procurement has also been reviewed and provisions on unregulated security procurement have been included in the draft. In the case of the Classical Public Procurement Directive and the Defence Directive, the draft aims to ensure uniform rules with the Public Procurement Act. However, in the light of the specialities of the defence and security field, the legal institutions of the draft show a number of differences from the general rules on public procurement. The draft law on defence and security procurement shall cover defence procurement, security procurement and services, where they are specifically intended for military or security purposes and involve, contain or require classified information. The common feature of procurement items covered by defence procurement is that they serve a specific military purpose, taking into account that EU case law is consistent in allowing goods, services and works capable of performing more than one function to be acquired under the Defence Directive only if they serve a specific military purpose in their original or modified form. Defence procurement subjects are only included in the current proposal with a framework character. A detailed list of the Common Military List of the European Union will be drawn up at the level of a government regulation. Security purchases shall be understood as procurements which do not fall within the scope of defence procurement, which involve both internal and external security of Hungary and which contain or generate classified information. Instead of the concept of qualified procurement used previously, this new terminology also aims to facilitate compliance with the Directive, stressing that the involvement of classified data in procurement does not in itself base the application of the Defence Directive or its transposition legislation, which does not in itself place procurement in the field of security. [[12.20]] Ladies and gentlemen, In the field of procurement, the security interests of the Member States and the obligations arising from the Treaty of the Union should be harmonised for the purpose of the Union objective. The Fidesz fraction supports the current bill. With all due respect, I'd like to ask you to support it. Thank you. [[Applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2016-03-30-80	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congresswoman Márta Demeter, the lead speaker of the MSZP Group. Here you go.
u2016-03-30-81	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Basically, what the Secretary of State and my fellow Member Simon have said here is that the EU directives themselves need to be transposed into the Hungarian legal order, it is a completely supportive step, and it is obviously necessary. The problem is, I don't think it's here with the bill. And then, obviously, it became clear that, unfortunately, we have several problems with the proposal before us. I would like to lay down a few principles before I turn to the specific proposal. If we are talking about defence and security purchases, then one thing is extremely important, and this is transparency. And the Secretary of State mentioned that every country must protect itself; I think that the money of the country's population, the taxpayers who effectively maintain security institutions, forces and security bodies must also be protected. For this reason, procurement for defence and security purposes is perfectly natural, as I would add: for any other procurement involving a different area, but it is particularly important here that the use of public funds is transparent, as they maintain these institutions. It is also natural that it is the responsibility of the government to provide sufficient resources for the functioning of these bodies. Trust is equally important. This, of course, follows from the fact that if something works transparently, then trust is built on the subject. I think that transparency is important not only in domestic procurement but also in international confidence, because as a member of both the European Union and NATO, I think that this is also particularly important. In particular, defence and security purchases were not covered by the Public Procurement Act before and after 2010. Defence procurement itself is governed by a specific 2004 Government Decree. The law on public procurement did not have to apply to security purchases if the competent committee of Parliament had taken a preliminary decision on this. A government decree had to be applied to this, precisely the regulation on classified information, on the specific rules for procurement involving the country's essential security, national security interests or requiring special security measures. This is what otherwise expired at the end of 2014, as the European Commission has indicated that there are conflicts with the Defence Procurement Directive in this Decision. So I think that there is no technical objection to putting defence security procurement under a comprehensive regulation in some form. And, as the Secretary of State said, it is absolutely necessary to comply with the EU directive itself and to transpose it into Hungarian law, because the deadline for doing so expired on 21 August 2011. So it is clear that this huge effort that we are facing now is essentially due to the fact that by 21 August the Commission must report to the European Parliament on the experience set out in this. However, it is absolutely certain that the government does not have any moral basis for requesting support from the opposition in respect of any law on public procurement. Even at the time of the adoption of the new Public Procurement Act, when you accepted this, we indicated our concerns that objectivity was not guaranteed by the law. And I think, unfortunately, there is also a huge problem with the relevant parts of the current proposal. We've seen the experience of the last few years; we've seen the buddies near the government. Now you have a new favorite, Butcher Lawrence. I don't want to go any deeper than that. [[Dr. András Schiffer: Why?]] I think everyone knows what we're talking about, tens of billions, we're about to talk about hundreds of billions. [[Dr. András Schiffer: Let's get into it.]] [[Dr. István Tiba is replaced by Attila Móring József in the notary seat.]] We see that they, who are close to the government, are absolute winners either in public procurement, in the negotiated procedure for their parameters, in negotiated restricted procedures or in the case of discharge from public procurement, too, unfortunately, the experience is similar. And let's look at some specific cases, for that matter. What was specifically a defence security procurement was an example of three Mi8 helicopters being acquired in spring 2014 by the defense wallet just a few days before the elections. And although it can be said that the rubber rules that the majority of the ruling parties have passed by law, of course, at the level of the letter, were in line with the purchase, we can say that. Morally, he was absolutely questionable, and professionally. To date, it has not been clarified how these helicopters were purchased, because when I asked the Ministry, I received a reply that they are dual-use tools suitable for both civilian and military use. Obviously, I didn't ask you this because I wouldn't be aware of it, but that it was either a civilian application or a military application, or a reference to it. For what we can see is that, while the military, I say, can literally meet, these machines came to Kecskemét by some miracle with civilian painting. The photos that appeared in the press clearly support this. So it is clear that this was also an absolute under-weed procurement and a highly questionable procurement for the clean use of public funds. Let me mention, although we're not talking specifically about military procurement, we're talking about the 20th of August fireworks last year. I think that this was done by reference to the fact that it was a matter of extreme urgency: it certainly could not be expected that it would be 20 August, nor that on 20 August, by the way, on our national holiday, fireworks would happen. So that's also incredibly, I'd say it's a funny example. It is sad that we are talking again about taxpayers' money, and I would add that there is a certain area of credibility that we can also play. HM EI Zrt. We also remember the case of the renovation of the headquarters, from which, according to the information, the performance was, in fact, not fully accomplished, but besides, who carried out the technical inspection, he was also a member of the jury itself. So again, we're talking about hundreds of millions, which went off in the pockets of the people that the government has appointed. I would like to mention briefly the purchase of border seals. We are also talking about billions of forints, which HM EI Zrt. He could have used me. I think this has been done in very questionable and unclear circumstances to this day. He was a single bidder. And let us look at an example of tying, and I would like to highlight this specifically, because there will be a confirmation of this in the current law, and it will be possible. There's been a huge acquisition, so to speak, of tying. Thus, for example, it was possible to set up a park at Ludovika by exempting from public procurement, which I do not think would constitute a specific defence investment, unless it was environmental. So these are the experiences we've had so far. And if we look at the current bill before us, then the border closure and the related facilities will also be considered as military works under this proposal. Moreover, this proposal opens up the possibility of using the procedure under the proposal instead of the Public Procurement Act, even if the procurement consists of objectively separated elements, and I would refer back here, for example, to the case of the park. So there will be a question of how far more extensive purchasing elements will be attached to a procurement specifically for defence or security purposes. From here on out, it's going to be, like, uncontrollable how this is going to happen. [[12.30]] And it is a matter of fact that the bill, whether it is definitions in relation to protected employees, or it is an ethical breach, which, I think, may be an extremely subjective thing, which might be the companies to which it is drawn in order to prevent them from taking up these purchases. It may also be of particular concern that documents in procurement procedures will have to be kept for five years. [[Dr. András Schiffer: Only?]] This is exciting - it is true - because the cycles are four years old, and that plus one year, I think, in the case of a particularly necessary examination, it will be very short and it will make it very difficult to carry out a follow-up examination. I think that, unfortunately, based on the experience of recent years, this is not the way that this came into this bill. There is a wide scope of the proposal for a negotiated procedure without real competition, without notice, and it also includes the rubber rule - we are now full of rubber rules, unfortunately also in the field of protection, which I think is extremely sad - so there is a rule that is extremely urgent for reasons not foreseen by the contracting authority. That's what fireworks used to be like back in the day. It also allows this procedure to be applied. As well as the crisis caused by mass immigration, they can also justify the conduct of this procedure or the complexity of the military equipment. I do not think that this is going towards transparency, too, unfortunately. The question is, what does it mean in this context is that the procurement required for the installation of organisations for special application ordered by Parliament or the Government? I would also like to address this to the Secretary of State as a matter of fact, and what this could mean for the future. [[István Apáti: Depends on who asks.]] It is obvious that, unfortunately, there is a very wide margin for both EU and Hungarian thresholds. Also to Mr Secretary of State, my time is now rather short, but I have one more specific question: if the purchase demand arises in relation to foreign policy interest, then the provisions of this law should not apply. In particular, this may arise in relation to foreign representations, but then it is a question of what should be applied to such procedures, such acquisition, if there is a need for procurement in relation to foreign policy interests. And there is another very strange point in the proposal, and this is the provision which, I think, cannot be meaningfully understood, because rules would be laid down for the procedure of the European Commission. The text itself is a fully mechanical transposition of the directive. In my opinion, it should have been regulated that if the European Commission had detected a clear breach in the procurement procedure of a value equal to or greater than the EU threshold for defence and security purchases and that it might have initiated proceedings, what exactly should be done. Instead, the bill would regulate precisely the procedure of the Commission. By the way, I assume that this may not be the intention of the legislator; this is certainly worth looking at. In short, we see in this proposal that what is an initiative on the EU directive and an effort to implement it, I think, could be an absolutely eligible element. However, we see that this proposal regulates a lot of things in extremely embarrassing detail with regard to procurement for defence and security purposes. We see that the public procurement law is largely reflected in this proposal, but it is also true that it opens the possibility of loopholes to something incredibly wide from here on out. I think, given the experience of recent years, how public procurement has been carried out in recent years, seeing that, unfortunately, in the defence area, they are not trying to be more transparent, but rather trying to use the reference to national security interests in a very often concrete way, this proposal is absolutely unsupportable. I think that regulation should be considered in a direction that leads to transparency. I am also thinking here of the passage in the Defence Act, which is also emphasised in this proposal, namely that everything related to the defence area is otherwise not public for the 10-20-30th year, which, I think, is a complete negligation of transparency.
u2016-03-30-82	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr István Apáti, the lead speaker of the Jobbik Group. Here you go.
u2016-03-30-83	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, Indeed, we could settle the debate on this bill very briefly, we need to transpose an EU directive, and it is finished here. But the formula isn't that simple. In fact, what has been put before us is, to a large extent, an adaptation of Kbt., which means that most of the rules of the Public Procurement Act come back, to a large extent, they have managed to produce this proposal using a Ctrl C/Ctrl V. We understand, of course, that this is obviously easier, and there are people who are afraid to get tired. There is such a circle of workers in which you may panic to get tired by the end of the day. Well, aside from the joke, it's not that funny. If it weren't for such silly EU standards that it had to be regulated in a separate law, it would have been perfectly in line with the separate separate chapter or part of the Public Procurement Act. I think it would have been easier to negotiate, and it would have been easier to deal with amendments in their entirety. Now, for the first time, I'd like to talk about professional details, and then, about the cold reality, here are some figures that, let's say, I can explain a lot more than yesterday's interpellation time frame. These figures will certainly be to the full satisfaction of the government side and will be extremely sobering. It is very right that procurement policies must be drawn up by all contracting entities, whether of a state or municipal nature, or by one of the public bodies or ministries, if they already have such procurement rules, they should, in good time, be updated. This is the easiest case, but it may be necessary to create a completely new procurement policy. I would like to point out to Mr State Secretary, based on practical experience and the practical experience of general or traditional procurement procedures, it would be appropriate for those responsible in the Ministry to consider drawing up a specific model procurement policy and model documents to assist staff working with the relevant contracting authorities and staff involved in this. After all, it is not an average job for civil servants or public service officials, it does not matter which organisation we are talking about, whether it is preparing procurement regulations, especially when it comes to procurements for defence or security purposes or subject matter. I would like to point out with complete goodwill that this is usually delayed by public administrations, there are always serious delays, and often there is a lack of advice in contracting authorities when it comes to establishing such a fundamental code. After all, if this is not the case, it is not in principle possible to conduct a procurement procedure or a procurement procedure. So it seems like such a small thing, and maybe they think you make it for the desk and the closet, he puts it in there, and then you never have to deal with it. Without this, there should be no procurement or procurement procedure. As far as the regulation of the jury was concerned, some of the better amendments to the Public Procurement Act were passed sometime in the year 2012 through the then two thirds of the Fidesz amendment. I was very pleased that they had finally accepted what many of you did not dispute, and thought that this was already the way it was, or always has been, in practice. But no. In particular, the process of preparing decisions and decision-making should be rigidly separated in the functioning of the jury. In other words, a member of the jury cannot participate in the decision-making process. We know very well that this did not work for many local governments, because at the time we experienced for many municipalities that, where appropriate, municipal representatives who were still members of the jury, usually without any expertise, agreed to the decision they had prepared during the evening meeting of the body of representatives. [[12.40]] This is obviously not right, which is why we managed to do this, I say, at some point in the middle of the last term, to explain and carry it through to create a conflict of interest rule for such a jury. I am not saying that this is a particularly strong protection against corruption and other abuses, or that this is a key element in preventing corruption, but at least it is not irrelevant that such personal mix-ups or overlaps are not possible. What could be interesting again, however, even more exciting questions than the relationship between the jury and the decision-making process, is otherwise the rules of co-ordination and the prohibition of breakdown, as used to be the Kbt, which entered into force on 1 May 2004. We've called you. This is very important because, in my opinion, these rules have been completely unwarranted in the previous cycle, and have practically opened wide and wide the gates that have allowed almost everything to be broken down, divided into parts, including procurement items or parts of procurement which, by the way, belong to the same technical logic, are to be combined. Thus, it is possible to achieve, where appropriate, that certain procurements are below a public procurement threshold, so that they do not even reach the national threshold, or that is clearly again not an irrelevant question, whether a procurement should reach the EU or national threshold, whether it will succeed in keeping them within the national threshold or if it has already exceeded the EU threshold. This raises issues that are more sensitive in terms of transparency, whether the public or the public, and if there is an intention of mugging, it is likely that those who are about to commit serious crimes need to be more careful, and that is not the same in this respect. By the way, this is what we see in public procurement in the traditional or general sense, and I do not see any change here either. As far as the call for proposals is concerned, it is an old idea, an old proposal for Jobbik, that, if possible, the content elements that should appear in a call for proposals should be listed, not as exemplary, but as taxatically. Instead, we see a minimum of twenty-two conditions here, which is an exemplary list, which is a minimum requirement, which must be included in all procedures in each call, but there is still room for enlargement. I think that more than ten years have passed the new Public Procurement Act, or I now say that since the entry into force and application of laws, I think the experience here is so mature that it would be worth at least trying to make a taxative list. As regards the issue of exclusion reasons: given the special nature of defence and security procurement, given its specific nature, it should not only be possible to verify the grounds for exclusion more widely, whether by other specialised bodies, but also to provide for this as an explicit obligation, and if procurement concerns particularly high state secrets or classified information, the related criminality, which may have been previously implemented, should also be included in the exclusion list and not only the traditional grounds for exclusion should be transferred here with the application of Ctrl C/Ctrl V. And even the authenticity of certificates of competence, technical, professional or financial documents for certification of economic conditions should be subject to wider scrutiny, even if this clearly slightly delays or increases the time limit for the procedure. As regards one of the possible reasons for declaring the procedure ineffective, this is the lack of financial coverage on the contracting authority side. This, please, could also be treated as the fact that, by the way, the practice has worked this out well over the last more than a decade, that it is possible to think about - obviously also depending on the nature of the procurement, the subject matter, the specific items to be obtained - that the amount of the collateral available to the contracting authority may be published in the call; not in order to provide the data in advance of how much money is in the register, but because the contracting authority already considers the tenders exceeding it invalid, so that whoever wishes to submit them above it has already fallen out of the competition. On the one hand, this is because, if we look at it well, it is cost-effective, it is in the best interests of the budget, and on the other hand it improves competition and improves the contracting authority's positions, because if not only and only the lowest amount of remuneration is the criticism aspect - we have used the old term with a much more effective, much more expressive definition, the selection of the overall tender was much better than the current definition - this will make the use of budgetary resources significantly more efficient, whereas if we do not use this otherwise about the same option in the invitation to tender, then the procedure should be repeated, if appropriate, because there are really too expensive offers coming. And if, let's say, it's important to quickly acquire specific goods or services or start a construction project, then this could be a very serious loss of time. Now, if I were a pastor, I'd say that the Word is about this far, and that's pretty much the end of worship, but it's not that simple. Technically, what's going on here since May 1, 2004, especially since 2010, reminds me of one of the jokes of the late Hofi Géza, namely whether you need a barrier to rail crossings. The late Hofi Géza said that he considered it unnecessary, personally, because if the train is coming, he will block the road, if not, then why the barrier? Now, as an example, what you have created here in the last twelve years is basically a simplified or complicated obstacle course to documenting how to withdraw money from the budget, how to enrich private pockets with overpriced supplies, service orders, and, above all, construction projects. Even in L. Simon László's earlier words, there may be something that is questionable about the maintenance or the need for sustainability of the whole system, because in practice, the person who is considered to be good is the one who wins the procedures, so why write everything down here. It's true that it gives a lot of people a job, maybe even an advisory group with greasy assignments, even the sixty-sixth skin. By the way, it is brilliant, so it should be taught; I think in countries such as Cambodia, Laos and Burma, they would be crying for a recipe on how to legally and illegally withdraw funds from the same procedure. Why am I being so sharp? The reason I'm so sharp is because you, a respected government side, have been able to make such a sacred case as the case of fence building, to put it mildly, is that you are suspected of misappropriation and corruption. We thought of such a thing, however, that there might be a purchase, a kind of execution where they know they can control themselves, a little bit of their instincts, because it is a man's ability to hold back and reduce the deep instincts he has in him, and then we thought about it in the building of the fence. And we had to be disappointed, because they didn't just pull a big one on the labor fee, they pulled a lot of material, but not a little. Yesterday I only had 3+1 minutes to list the insane items you were able to pay in connection with the fence construction. The fact that the Secretary of State gave a two billion-dollar commission to a company in which he was Chairman of the Board of Directors for half a million HUF a month's salary makes the story even more spicy; this is also interesting, since we are talking about personal conflicts of interest here. But the fact that the NATO blade wire purchased in the order of 170 kilometers was bought instead of a gross price of 600-700 forints for 2800 forints is outrageous. How best Kocsma.hu gets involved in such procurement procedures and how to buy a service car for 5.5 million HUF is still waiting for answers, because these are facts. How to pay 2400 forints on a 300-forint visibility vest, although Secretary of State Kontra said that labelling cost a lot, is once again thought-provoking. How the two Mad Max gates cost ten million, we've been thinking about it ever since. And not only do I mention so-called petty items in relation to visual vests, I deliberately lift the blade wire purchased in 170 kilometers of length, and then the traditional wire line is not even included, the structure on which it is installed is not even included, because the accounting that was sent with great bitterness, with great agony from the beginning of August until October, certainly does not allow for objective comparison for most items. Market research, like what you're describing here is a preliminary market survey? Brilliant, very good, really textbook, is how a procedure should be prepared. What kind of procedure was going on here? Please tell me that. If I go into a store or go into a building material dealer, and as a simple general customer, as a consumer, I can buy something in small lots at a running price of 700 forints, how is it that when you need 170 kilometers of it, the price is five times eight times the price? I think that Hungary is the world leader in this, and we are beating the field with a street length for every such acquisition. [[12.50]] Well, I said these things as an example, because if this bill, which is before us, is only for the purpose of documenting, documenting and facilitating such horrific abuses, we are obviously unable to provide support for such excesses, even in the moral or political sense of treason. They have already abused our trust when we supported fence building as the only opposition party, and even the idea came from us. We thought, very naively, that it would not come up here. We won't make that mistake again, you can be sure of that. What if a fence must be built at the Hungarian-Romanian border for more than 400 kilometres? Then the state register will be empty, Mr. Secretary. [[Deterioration in the ranks of Jobbik and LMP.]] There's not enough money in the world to do that. From this, the planet Earth could soon be surrounded. So please answer these unpleasant questions, even then. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] If the Ministry of Interior didn't even know that the Ministry of Defence or the execution of prisons had to be accounted for now. In the end, it turned out that BM needed it after all. Mr. Secretary of State Kontra here yesterday [[The president's ringing again.]] He wondered where these data came from. Don't be surprised. See if your coworkers can find out what you're doing. Thank you. [[A round of applause from Jobbik and LMP.]]
u2016-03-30-84	Thank you. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Andras Schiffer, the lead speaker of the LMP Group. Here you go.
u2016-03-30-85	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, The fact is, I will not be able to surpass the Hofi joke of my fellow Member of Apáti. Indeed, in such a bill, the only question is what is necessary, beyond the fact that there is an EU requirement, in my view, a law that the universe has not yet seen, the essential element of which is that, by the way, it is always possible to deviate from it. So really, Mr. Secretary, what I don't understand is why you have to clown around here in this House with a bill like this. So what's the point of a legal norm, the essential element of which is that it's possible to deviate from it? When we were taught basic law, it was said that there was no need for such rules. Of course, the regulation of defence procurement would be necessary. It is also clear that this initiative of the Ministry - I can't call it otherwise, because the term "proposal of law" would be quite strong, because if we call it a bill, it assumes that it contains rules that even the government may have to comply with - of course it serves a very noble purpose, since Hungary, the Hungarian Government and the Parliament have been indebted for several years to regulate procurement for defence and security purposes. So far, there has been an unconstitutional, unconstitutional situation, trying to regulate by regulation something that should otherwise be dealt with by law. In itself, the fact that such an initiative is being taken, so that defence procurement is finally regulated by law, there is nothing positive, because it does not fulfil exactly the small objective of regulating anything. What is currently taking place in Hungary in the field of public procurement and, to be exact, public procurement that is excluded from the scope of public procurement, can be referred to as the organised flow of public funds to buddies, friendly oligarchs and their lunar stations. And there is something else that has been said before that, moreover, the problem here is not just public procurement or narrow procurement or procurements that have been withdrawn from it. In the last six years, Fidesz has put legislation to the top on how to exempt various investments from Community control, how to prioritise either the various paid multi-enterprises or investments that have some very important intentions. So what we see is that the ever-increasing area of the operation of the national economy is a no-go zone for such a mortal on earth, because there is simply no legislation that would, by the way, guide the mortal on earth, whether the law-abiding citizen or the simple domestic businesses. So whether we are thinking about priority investments or about public procurement, about maladministration in various state orders, the fact is that it is no coincidence that LMP is now holding weekly corruption information and showing how the common register is otherwise stolen at systemic level; how a government whose head announced it as a government programme in the summer of 2010 will steal the common register; how the common register will be stolen by a government whose head announced it as a government programme that will now occur at a time when the public interest will overwrite private interests. Here, my fellow Member, Apáti, quoted Géza Hofi, but he could have easily quoted András Lánczi, because the future rector of the University of Public Gas, very plastically and quite rightly pointed out that what the opposition calls corruption is actually the essence of Fidesz's government policy. I think that the words of Professor should be considered by the government before he makes a lousy statement of reasons for such a bill here. I believe that it cannot be disputed that, in the case of procurement for defence and security purposes, there are considerations, protection of secrets and national security interests which cannot be ignored and which may override the rules of classical public procurement. There is no debate and there is no debate in any European country. The purpose of such a law would be to summarise these aspects and interests in a specific way, clearly defined, and to limit classical procurement rules only to the most necessary extent. At this point, I would like to point out a little thing about the protection of secrets, namely that if the government had acted in good faith, it would apply the so-called need to know principle throughout the bill and this initiative, so that in the invitation to initiate the procedure only the protection of the secrets of the means or services to be obtained, which is in fact not information to be protected and the range of potential candidates, can only be identified as being qualified. From a confidentiality point of view, more serious consideration is needed to communicate the details of the information in need of protection only to the winning applicant. So in Hungarian, if fair intentions were to lead the government, then they would proceed lightly to this special procurement procedure in the conduct of the protection of secrets. Compared to this, this initiative proposes that, wherever possible, anything on which there is a suspicion of a secret should be encrypted. Let us also encrypt that which does not contain any protected information on its own, which is only related to a circle that may otherwise contain protected information. Here, I believe, in the speech by Márta Demeter, we spoke about the hedges before Ludovia, why the purchases in this regard are otherwise exempt from the procedure. I think, Mr Secretary, that these are precisely the proposals that are almost funny, which are waiting for a real explanation. What do you think about Ludovika Square, because there's the National Defence University, these hedges serve as bulletproof bullet-proof hedges, and that's why gardening is for protection? Or maybe they're covering up defense college students? Come on, seriously. I am outraged by the view that if the aim really was to obtain protection in a way regulated by law, they would apply this so-called need to know principle and limit the scope of the information really to be protected to the minimum necessary. Dear Parliament, In the light of the above, in the context of the proposal before us, we should first of all note that the scope of procurement that can be withdrawn from the scope of public procurement is not treated strictly and in a closed manner. In particular, it is a provision that, without amendment of law, the competent committee of Parliament will decide to continue to derogate from the general rules of the public procurement procedure at any time. Excellent, here we go. [[István Apáti's intervention.]] My fellow father-in-law is now calling out why the fence. Indeed, because in the image of the committee responsible - we have known this since the settlement bonds - the locomotive itself is ahead of us, blocking the road sufficiently and making everything invisible. [[13.00]] But seriously, I do see some analogy between the method of settlement bond business and this solution. So what you are proposing here, in itself, is, if you like, a public-law centaur, because now it is not the first case - and you have to think of all kinds of personal interests - that Parliament's committee is effectively entrusted with powers and administrative functions implementing it. Whose interest is that? Because in the case of the settlement bond business, we already know whose interest it was in the Economic Commission to carry out quasi-government tasks; in this case, the Parliamentary Committee is carrying out virtually quasi-government tasks. It is also problematic to be more specific here than applying the need to know principle, that qualified companies that may be considered as business partners in such procurements will still not be able to know anything about public opinion. This secrecy is incomprehensible, for example, in the light of the fact that NATO suppliers can be found on the organization's website. So it is secret in Hungary, but at the same time it is available on NATO's website. This is not for the safety of purchases, it is sensible, but rather for the uncontrollability and the difficulty of ex post detection of the purity of purchases or possible abuses. It does not make a positive difference in the fact that procurement for defence and security purposes does not require open procurement procedures, in essence the customer can decide which companies he is willing to do business with and, as we can see, there is no legal obligation to publish the list of qualified firms. The only positive thing is that, at least for these special procurements, the principle of ensuring the participation of micro, small and medium-sized enterprises in the selection of economic operators to be invited to tender should be applied in accordance with the principle of equal treatment and, where possible, in accordance with the principle of equal treatment. It would have been good if this principle had also been enforced in the Public Procurement Act. The list of products for which Kbt is available is set out in the Annex. The taxation list is a good solution in this case, which would also be necessary in the case of services. But let's see, in the case of services, they've packed virtually everything that fantasy can handle. Anything, any service in connection with which classified information may in principle arise. I do not know, because it may be that Márta Demeter or my fellow Member of Apáti has read it more carefully, and I wonder if, for example, the gardening works are in the spirit of what has been said here, or if we should put forward an amendment. Because it is that such a service is road, rail, air and water transport, sewage treatment, garbage transport, legal service. Aren't you going to favor me here? We know that the first thing they did in the summer of 2010 was to extract legal services from the Public Procurement Act. It's natural to take it out in defense procurements. The hotel and restaurant services are also taken out. [[An intervention from Jobbik's ranks: Brilliant!]] And let us pay attention, however, this is not a matter of concealing certain details of the service in a specific case, but of ordering a hotel and restaurant service by a defense body, it is already secret by virtue of the law, and in that case there is little to worry about, in particular, that the publisher should indicate exactly what confidential, sensitive data is, which information is actually to be kept secret. Special interest is the staff circle, which is suggested by the proposal. It says that it excludes public foundations, local authorities, local and national self-governments, associations of ethnic and local self-governments, associations of regional development local authorities and regional development councils from the scope of the general public procurement rules. What? We are talking about public bodies for whom the Fundamental Law and the Defence Act simply do not split cards. Then why do you have to take it out? So what is it absurd to regulate the removal of regional development associations or minority self-government associations from the general public procurement rules in the case of defence procurement? In these cases, the category of procurement for defence and security purposes is difficult to interpret, so I would like to know specifically what the legislator had in mind in the case of public foundations and minority self-governments. The proposal also shows that, in addition to products and services specifically intended for military and law enforcement purposes, special rules could be applied to procurement related to the protection of critical infrastructure if classified information could arise. This regulation is suitable for suppliers not to be selected in open procedures, in Hungarian arbitraryly. And one more professional observation for the wording of the law itself, Mr. Secretary of State. The interoperability category is introduced in the explanatory provisions, but throughout the regulation, so-called interoperability is constantly mixed with the concept of interchangeability and the identity of the elements, the concept of communality. This goes through the rules of the law, by the way. It'd be nice if the defense attorneys could do that one more time. Overall, the aim is to ensure that defence procurement is regulated by law, and, of course, it is correct and welcome. There is only one small problem that this scroll of paper, which has been submitted to us by a specific number, is the wallet of defence, of course, if it is accepted, it must be called a law, but it simply does not meet the criteria of a law in terms of its content. The aim of this regulatory experiment is precisely to further spread the dust towards the outside, abroad, or even to the public, perhaps to lead the Constitutional Court by resolving the conflict between the levels of legal resources. But in fact, this law is only good - as my fellow Member Apáti quoted the comedian - for the locomotive to replace the barrier, and the locomotive - which we have known for a long time, for at least six years - covers your dirty operations precisely. Thank you very much. [[It's a rare applause in the ranks of the Jobbik.]]
u2016-03-30-86	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. Zsuzsanna Szelényi, an independent Member, announced her intention to speak in writing, but she is not in the room, so we cannot hear her speech. There is now room for further speeches by Members. I'm asking if anyone wants to live with that. [[No one's reporting.]] I don't see any contact. Dear Parliament, As no one has made any further comments, the general debate is closed. I will ask the Secretary of State if he wishes to respond to what has been said in the debate. [[For signal:]] I give you the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2016-03-30-87	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, We have heard the comments on the bill before us. In addition to this bill, my fellow Members talked about a lot of things. We have heard of past purchases that we have learned are either legal or, according to the speaker, in his own opinion, questionable and unclear, although he could not provide evidence of this. In such cases, once again, we can only advise that if anyone has such suspicions, [[István Apáti: I did it!]] Then do what you have to do. We heard from our fellow Member about his interpellation yesterday once more. My fellow State Secretary answered this yesterday, so I think it is not the subject of today's debate. I would refrain from using it on behalf of representatives of a party who, among its members, may know a person accused of treason among its representatives. [[Interjection from Jobbik's ranks:...not treason! István Apáti: What? What are you talking about?]] In the case of foreign representations, of course, there may be an interest, a situation where security requirements and sudden changes in security conditions make it necessary below the EU threshold and, of course, an exception to some of the security purchases. In the case of EU directives and the integration of the public procurement law, I had a feeling that it was wrong to have a hat on and not to have a hat. [[Dr. Gergely Bárándy: Stealing is the problem! It's just stealing!]] At one moment, they welcome and even require the follow-up of EU directives and, on the other hand, consider it to be rejected. [[13.10]] Similarly, at one moment, compliance with the Public Procurement Act is to be welcomed and at the next moment is to be blamed for the error of this bill. I think that there is a transparent and coherent text before Members. It is transparent, but in addition to transparency, it is very important to stress that this transparent bill allows the citizens of Hungary to live safely and protect the country, the country and the nation. I therefore continue to ask my fellow Members to support the bill before us. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-03-30-88	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, The amendment proposals can be submitted by 4 p.m. on Friday. Dear Parliament, There will be a general debate on the bill on judicial experts until closure. The government referral is T/9782. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, I give the floor to Mr Pál Völner, Secretary of State of the Ministry of Justice, the rapporteur of the item on the agenda. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2016-03-30-89	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, In 2014, the government very strongly formulated the principle that has continued to follow legislative work as a standard, namely to regain the faith of citizens in justice. Judicial experts are active and, in some respects, decisive actors in the judiciary. The expert is now known and accepted as a means of proof in the 19th century. It developed in the second half of the century. The establishment of the institution was essentially facilitated by two factors. On the one hand, the development of natural sciences and, on the other hand, the differentiation of disciplines, on the other hand, the rule of the free system of proof in procedural legislation. These circumstances and other means of proof, in particular the appreciation of the importance of witnesses, have led to the very frequent use of this means of proof in judicial proceedings. A large percentage of civil lawsuits are so-called expert litigation, which means that disputes can be decided on the basis of basically a professional question. The involvement of experts is also of great importance in criminal and criminal cases. The codes of procedure contain very similar definitions as to when an expert may be used. According to today's guiding concept, the expert replaces the missing expertise of the court, notary, prosecutor's office or other authority, but cannot express an opinion on legal issues or even take over the judgment function of the courts in detail. In our current law, two laws, XLVII of 2005 on judicial expertise. Act and CXIV of 1995 on the Chamber of Judicial Experts The law contains the law on judicial experts. In addition, the activities of judicial experts and the administrative procedures related to them are subject to a number of implementing legislation. The duality can also be seen in the structure of the Chamber of Justice Experts. The Hungarian Chamber of Experts on Justice - in short the MISZK - and the regional chambers are public bodies based on the principle of local government, representing the interests of judicial experts. [[Dr. Gergely Bárándy:]] There are currently eight regional chambers, which constitute the MSZK. Each expert is a member of the territorial chambers, but the sectoral representative body of judicial experts is ultimately the MSZK. The diverse and unfortunately incoherent legislative background, the duality and operational difficulties of the chamber system, and the adverse public opinion on the judicial proceedings which have been given greater publicity in recent years have shaken confidence in the functioning of judicial experts and through this in the judgments of the courts in those cases. In addition, a number of further anomalies were detected and reported to the Ministry of Justice. It is an example of the absence of an adequate quality assurance system by the pre-ordering bodies, without which it was only through the secondment of another expert that it was possible to assess in substance the procedure of the expert giving judicial expert advice in the proceedings. This, of course, does not match either the principles of procedural economy or the interests of the public seeking rights. Experience has shown that a two-tier chamber system cannot effectively fulfil its statutory function. Contrary to the expectations of judicial experts, methodological letters from the Chamber were drawn up and issued in very few areas. As regards ethical procedures, the Chamber does not act with sufficient speed and rigour against forensic experts who have committed an ethical offence, even though no other body is able to ensure this. During the last two years, the Ministry of Justice, which led to the list of judicial experts, has received more and more frequent signals calling for sanctions against the judicial expert by the parties, clients or by the issuing authorities and courts. However, the Ministry of Justice only has administrative measures at its disposal in relation to the management of the register. The requests for the initiation of the substantive ethical procedure were also forwarded to the Chamber for action, mostly without success. All this has led the Ministry of Justice to lay the foundations of the law on judicial experts in a new law, following a comprehensive examination of the law on judicial experts. In the autumn of 2014, the Ministry of Justice prepared a map of problems in the context of the professional operation, which relied heavily on the report of the Curia's case-law analysis group and the Commissioner for Fundamental Rights, as well as on the experience of both own and external experts. During the creation of the new law, the aim of the portfolio was to ensure that the new regulation on judicial experts would contribute to the better functioning of the justice system by drawing up more effective, faster and quality experts than previously. The draft law was prepared with the participation of the Hungarian Chamber of Experts on Justice, and the judicial experts were also actively involved in its opinion. The draft has been broadly agreed, with a large number of proposals being made. In order to address the problems identified and to achieve legislative objectives, the new law on judicial experts contains provisions in many respects that go beyond the provisions of the law in force. The main innovations related to judicial experts and their operation are as follows. A minor amendment to the terms of becoming an expert will make it possible for professionals wishing to act as judicial experts to have all the legal and other knowledge that is required to operate legally well-founded judicial experts at the time of their oath of judicial experts. The bill makes running as a candidate of experts a condition for becoming an expert for a certain period of time or until a number of cases has been settled. Depending on the area of expertise, this means a candidate period of 1-3 years or 50 cases. In this capacity, the candidate, acting alongside an experienced judicial expert, can learn the practice of legal judicial expertise. Furthermore, a new element is the fact that the judicial expert will be obliged to carry out the minimum legal knowledge required for its operation and to carry out the accounting of the acquired knowledge in advance before it is entered into the list of judicial experts. The bill sets up a quality assurance system through which the Chamber can better monitor the professional functioning of its members. The five-year review phase, which appears to be a normal element of quality assurance, ensures that the Chamber can carry out the certification of the entire expert team at reasonable pressure within that period. In addition, as an exceptional element of quality assurance, the right of the Ministry of Justice as the head of the register to request the Chamber to carry out the certification procedure of that expert in response to complaints received by it, if appropriate. [[13.20]] Instead of previous ethical procedures, the bill, laying new foundations for the professional responsibility of judicial experts, introduces a system of disciplinary proceedings, setting out its most important guarantee rules. However, with the introduction of disciplinary procedures, the legislator does not intend to restrict the Chamber to impose ethical sanctions in the event of minor professional offences. However, in accordance with the principle of legal certainty, the guarantee rules laid down by law in respect of disciplinary proceedings will also have to be applied in ethical proceedings. It relates to disciplinary proceedings, but special attention should be paid to the involvement of the applicant in disciplinary proceedings. By creating this possibility, the bill seeks to ensure that persons who are disadvantaged by judicial expert proceedings can appeal to the Chamber for the initiation of disciplinary proceedings, because they do not have the possibility to do so under the rules in force. However, it is important to point out that the right to initiate proceedings thus guaranteed cannot be uncoordinated and that it cannot lead to the abuse of that right by the unsuccessful parties, who are otherwise professionally acting in an impeccable manner, taking revenge on the judicial expert. For this reason, the notifier shall pay the Chamber a disciplinary procedural fee at the time of the initiation of the disciplinary procedure. The provisions of the bill which simplify the administrative procedures for the operation of judicial experts and provide for shorter deadlines are intended to ensure bureaucracy reduction. In order to prevent corruption, according to the bill, judicial experts are no longer obliged to report to the investigating authority only in case of detection of violent crimes against a person, but also in case of suspicions of corruption and of official crimes. Furthermore, it is a very important innovation that judicial experts are required to provide statistical information to the Chamber on a quarterly basis in relation to their operations. After proper processing of the data relating to the operation of judicial experts, the Chamber shall forward the register to the Ministry of Justice, on request. In this way, legislative issues relating to experts will have more practical experience and trends in the future. From now on, the bill contains a number of further innovations to remedy the already detailed operational difficulties of the Chamber of Justice, namely the former two-tier chamber system will be replaced by a single Hungarian Judicial Expert Chamber, which operates more efficiently and transparently. This is the result of a two-step process, the first stage of which is the integration of the eight existing regional chambers into the current MISZK, and then the resulting single MISZK will be replaced by the new Chamber by the force of the law. In order to ensure that this process is carried out, the current management of the regional and national chambers will contribute to the transformation until the new officials are elected. For reasons of guarantee, the bill discusses the chamber's organs in much more detail than before, along with the definition of their task. The rules on judicial oversight are being tightened, which facilitate legal certainty. Action in the event of failure will be more effective, but the appeal will also become more rapid, as the bill provides for non-court proceedings to be applied to the examination of appeals in respect of chamber bodies. In view of the fact that the current legislation did not allocate specific resources to cover the costs incurred in connection with the operation of the Chamber of Judicial Experts and its tasks, the chamber was accompanied by a lack of resources and, consequently, a lack of compliance with the obligations imposed by law. In order to address this situation, and in view of the fact that the bill imposes additional important tasks on the Chamber in relation to quality assurance, the chamber's costs are introduced, as is the case for the judicial enforcement system. The low fee of the chamber costsmaid shall be paid by the procedural agent initiating the secondment of the judicial expert, which shall constitute the revenue of the chamber. In this way, it can be ensured that quality assurance standards can effectively be applied as provisions to improve the quality of judicial expertise. With this list, I have merely sought to extract examples from the innovations that the bill intends to introduce for you. I hope that the legislation that is to be implemented by the bill will make a significant contribution to the ability of persons and bodies involved in the judicial expertise to gain recognition of law-seeking citizens through their activities. We hope that professionally sound judicial experts who follow the law not only in the letter but also in the spirit of the law, as well as the Chamber of Transparent Judicial Experts in its operation, can make a significant contribution to strengthening public trust in justice. I therefore recommend the bill to the attention of my fellow Members, asking for their support. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-03-30-90	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Now we're going to hear the speeches from the lead speaker. I give the floor to Congressman Répássy Robert, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group.
u2016-03-30-91	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, There is a long-awaited bill on the table in this House. The preamble to the bill gives a somewhat formal basis for the need for a new expert law. I would like to quote the last two paragraphs of the preamble to the bill. Following these qualitative changes, insufficient reactions, concerns about the functioning of judicial experts, and recent problems in the operation of the chamber system have led to a breakdown of judicial expertise and public confidence in the judiciary. In view of this, the National Assembly constitutes the following law in order to renew judicial expertise and the judicial expert organisation and to strengthen public confidence in judicial expertise and justice, the last two paragraphs of the preamble to the future law say. Thus, according to the preamble, the purpose of the law is to strengthen the professional activity and the renewal of the expert organisation, as well as public confidence in judicial expertise and justice. In addition to the effectiveness of justice, public trust in justice is the essence and key issue of the rule of law. If citizens cannot trust justice, their faith in the institutional system of the rule of law will be shaken. The bill therefore serves a twofold purpose: the renewal of professional activities can significantly increase the efficiency of justice, while at the same time strengthening public confidence in justice. Ultimately, the law before us, the bill, contributes to the strengthening of the rule of law and the rule of law. I would like to quote Article B (1) of the Fundamental Law: "Hungary is an independent democratic rule of law. Therefore, any bill aimed at strengthening the rule of law should be supported by the Fidesz-Hungarian Civic Alliance Group. I would like to highlight the most important innovations of the bill, which our group welcomes. The aim of these innovations, Mr Secretary of State, has also formulated the purpose of the innovations, and I would like to state that the aim is to increase the professional and ethical level of judicial expertise through the innovations of the bill. Among the innovations of the bill, I would like to highlight the following. First of all, the law itself is a new structure, a new framework of its judicial expertise, which regulates the legal subject of the two laws so far, since both the professional framework of the professional activity and the professional framework of the professional activity, i.e. the rules on the chamber, are laid down in a law. [[13.30]] More important innovations are the following. First of all, the bill places great emphasis on cutting red tape and a reasonable reduction in procedural time limits. The proposal regulates in detail some of the obligations necessary for the initiation of judicial expertise. I must say that the bill re-regulates the terms, procedures and formalities of becoming a judicial expert. The introduction of a regular and electronic statistical data service is a significant step forward, since expert activity is so diverse that neither the organisations that appoint experts, in particular the courts nor the judicial portfolio, are fully aware of the wide range of expert activities if they do not have adequate statistical data. It is therefore necessary to introduce such a statistical data service. The draft law also contains provisions on the content of the opinion, so that the bill sets out elements that are mandatory elements that have so far been dispersed in certain procedural rules, rules on court proceedings, and legislation, but are now laid down in a uniform manner. A clear rule for the profession and for the theory is stated, but it is not a rule in practice that it is not possible to take a stand on the issue of law in the opinion. Believe me, ladies and gentlemen, most of the debates in the courts on expert opinion arise from the fact that the parties dispute that the opinion is a matter of law or fact, and, in the end, in many cases, it can be a decisive assessment. So it is very important to rule that the expert cannot give an opinion on the issue of law. The definition of the institution of a private expert opinion, the expression, determination and the emphasis on the obligation of an expert acting on the basis of a mandate to act in accordance with the principles of independence and impartiality is a novelty of the bill, but I think it is a very important novelty that the ethical and professional conditions for drawing up a private expert opinion are very important. A strong element of the proposal is the so-called quality assurance requirements, and I have just said that it is necessary to lay down requirements to improve the professional level of judicial expertise. Thus, the judicial expert is obliged to take part in the training of legal knowledge organised by the Minister before submitting a request for registration and to take a legal examination. The imposition of mandatory appointment time or the imposition of a mandatory number of cases will in any event strengthen the professionalism that is one of the objectives of the bill before entering into the register of experts. With the operation of compulsory candidates for experts, the long-standing demand of the professional body of judicial experts is also met, and the professional organisation has a say in who is included in its ranks. So the expert candidate operation is a little similar to other chambers' recruitment procedures. The proposal is renewed by the regular evaluation of the judicial expert's procedure. This will be done by the professional body set up by the Chamber. As a result of the evaluation, the judicial expert may receive an inadequate, suitable or excellent qualification, which will be public data for the expert, so that the result is, of course, clear to the ordering authorities. In the event that this evaluation will be able to be carried out correctly by this professional body, the ordering authorities and courts will be given a real picture of the quality of the expert's advice. Among the innovations of the proposal, of course, we welcome the organizational innovations, so instead of the current fragmented chamber system, a unified chamber system will be introduced. We believe that the single chamber system is a stronger professional organisation than the current professional organisation. Professional departments appear as a new element. These professional departments include experts in the judicial field which gather experts grouped according to specific disciplines defined in the Ministry of Justice's decree. This is an organisation with a local government, so not only the entire single chamber, but also the professional departments will have a certain internal self-government in the future. The issue of the so-called methodological letter, which has been possible so far, but has been found to be very few, can become more effective with the entry into force of the new rules. These methodological letters may orientate, only from a professional point of view, experts in the preparation of the expert opinion. The financing problems of the Chamber and the financing of public tasks carried out by the Chamber are guaranteed by the introduction of the so-called chamber cost margin, which is important to note that it is not part of the expert's income, so the expert does not have any tax liability in this respect. In the proposal, as we have just talked about raising professional standards, the rapporteur also places great emphasis on raising ethical standards. The proposal primarily regulates the institution of disciplinary responsibility rather than ethical responsibility. In the future, the disciplinary responsibility of experts may be established by means of a procedure surrounded by guarantee elements in disciplinary proceedings. The applicant's participation in this procedure is a new element. The notifier shall be the person who initiates the determination of disciplinary liability against the judicial expert and may take part in the proceedings for that purpose. Of course, the expert is protected by a number of warranty rules against unfounded initiatives, so, of course, the possibility of redress is also guaranteed in this procedure. Moreover, it is separate to establish a possible ethical regulation, so in addition to disciplinary responsibility, certain minimum ethical requirements can be established in the spirit of professional self-regulation. Finally, legal oversight will be strengthened over the Chamber of Justice Experts. I would like to point out that there are a number of misunderstandings here about the fact that there is never a need for legal supervision in relation to professional activities of the Chamber, since the legal supervision of the professional activity cannot be exercised by the executive authority. However, the legal supervision of the Chamber must be carried out by the executive authority, so that the government carries out this task through the Minister of Justice. Legal oversight is therefore strengthened. The institution of the Secretary-General will be introduced. The aim of the establishment of the institution is to strengthen state control over the management of the Chamber and to facilitate more efficient operation by allowing the Secretary-General to be the person approved by the Minister but employed by the President of the Chamber in the future. [[13.40]] Dear House, Overall, I wished to present the innovations and justifications of the bill. On behalf of our group, I propose to support the bill, as I said, a long-awaited bill on the table in this House. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-03-30-92	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr Gergely Bárándy, the lead speaker of the MSZP Group.
u2016-03-30-93	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, For the second time today, we are faced with, of course, the previous sittings as an example, that the government seems to have two Pavlovi reflexes when the bell rings, or, in other words, it is necessary to amend legislation, either theft or centralization, centralization, or even centralized theft. It doesn't matter what subject they touch, it doesn't matter whether or not the change in the area is justified, and even if it's as justified as, say, the modernisation of the expert organisation or the reform of the professional activity, the end is either the theft or centralization, the nationalization, or both. I am therefore sorry, but it is impossible to support this law on our part - despite a number of forward-looking provisions - because this law is also being used to centralise to nationalise. The most important, perhaps major, change-making element of the bill is that an autonomous community is once again placed under public supervision, effectively withdrawing so far. We can see precisely that you are guided by similar goals, and use similar methods to do so, such as, say, reducing university autonomy, where you are not appointed Secretary-General for financial control, but you are appointed Chancellor, but the point is the same, for everything you have to agree to from now on. The bill on the Chamber of Experts in Justice is the 1995 CXIV on the Chamber of Experts in Justice. Act and Act XLVII of 2005 on the activities of judicial experts He's replacing a new law with a new law. Accordingly, the scope of the Act covers the activities of judicial experts, judicial experts and candidates of experts, case-by-case experts, consultants, auxiliary personnel, companies registered in the list of judicial experts, service providers with the right to provide free services under the law on general rules for the taking up and pursuit of service activities, judicial expert institutions, judicial expert institutes and judicial expert bodies established for that purpose, public bodies, institutions authorised to provide specific legal advice, as well as institutions and the Chamber of Hungarian Judicial Experts. It is a long list, but yet, what is the point of this, my honourable Members, and perhaps the most important thing is that professional activity, just as professional independence - I am thinking about courtroom independence and professional independence - has a direct impact on the independence of the judiciary. It affects it, because, on the one hand, there are cases where a mandatory expert is seconded, and, on the other hand, although the judge has the right of principle to override the opinion of the expert, in practice I believe that 99.9 percent is too small to determine how many times a judgment is given in the opinion of the expert and how many times they deviate from it. It makes sense, since the judge, let's say, will not be able to review a psychiatric opinion on the basis, and, of course, will rely on the opinion of the medical examiner in general medical matters in the same way. Or, let's say, in a custody suit, a child psychologist's opinion will be relied on by a judgmental judge. That is why I say that the professional activity and the regulation on it directly affect the independence of the judiciary. When we see that there is a breach of professional independence under this law or under this law and that measures are being taken that can adversely affect the free expression of expert opinion, they are also indirectly seeking to violate judicial independence. Let us say a few words about the history, because on the one hand, Mr State Secretary mentioned it, and this was indeed the case that experts were actively involved, for example, in the opinion of this law. I would like to say that these concerns have been expressed by them, and that is precisely in terms of independence and government subordination, the most serious concerns have been expressed by experts. If there is time, then, if not, I would like to present in a next speech the open letter, which was written by the Budapest Chamber of Experts on Justice on 3 March 2016. Back to a few words about the history. The draft law on chambers of judicial experts was discussed on the government website until 26 January 2016. According to the data of the ex-ante impact assessment also published, the regulatory need has arisen because of the need for a major revision of the relevant legislation in order to restore the weak public confidence in judicial expertise. Secretary of State, what are you basing this on? I'd like to ask you. Is there a survey, some statistics, of the fact that public confidence has weakened in professional activity? Or do you have a survey of the reason why this is so? Because I think that there is only one reason why this loss of public confidence or the loss of public confidence - although I do not believe that you can show it - and that is the delay that expert institutions or experts are making in court proceedings. I do not think - in retrospect of my previous experience as a lawyer - that belief in the objectivity of professional activity, let us say, would have weakened, but correct me, Mr Secretary of State, if I was wrong. The problem has always been that it is not timely mainly for expert institutes. Why is that? It's awfully simple. That's because there's no proper source for his operation. We have discussed several times here in the budgetary debate that the Institute of Experts has indicated that it needs no major additions, and that from a budgetary point of view it cannot be measured in percentage points, which they have requested in addition to being able to do their job on time. In other words, if there is a problem in this regard, it would be much easier to provide a little additional budgetary resources to the experts' institutes, and they would probably be able to operate more timely. Because I know exactly what you refer to or what you refer to, let's say, the case of the trench gang, where there was indeed a serious delay or other similar matter of public interest, where the expert or the expert institute was otherwise delayed. I know of only one matter, my fellow Members, where the bias of an expert in criminal proceedings arises, and the fact that he may have been influenced by unauthorized means in the formulation of his opinion, in this case the expert has been definitively acquitted. I don't know any more cases like this. So I am very curious, Mr. Secretary, about the reasons you will bring up for disincentive to public confidence. Instead of recasting, as you said, there was a new law that does not convince us exactly which new institutions of law will ensure the restoration of public confidence that may be weakened. As an impact on the administrative burden on the ex ante impact assessment sheet, it has been shown that the administrative burden on both the public administration and the public and market players is increasing. We're willing to believe that, by the way. According to the Impact Assessment Paper, the conversion does not cost the central budget a single penny. However, we believe this less, and it would also be good to know how much organizational and personal transformation will cost to the Hungarian Chamber of Judicial Experts. [[13.50]] The Chamber's comments indicate that, according to a conservative estimate, half of the MSZK's annual budget would be consumed by the restructuring, and that the rapporteur is therefore asked to take action to ensure the costs of the restructuring. Secretary of State, is this amount available? Are you going to transfer what you need to the Chamber of Experts? The Ministry of Justice responsible for preparing the submission claims that the new organisational structure was set up in a unique manner among public bodies in line with the national competence and the number of approximately 3,600 members in order to facilitate efficient operation. At the same time, the reference to transparency and legality in government communication is nothing more than a forced government relocation to a former public body, municipal function. That's what we're seeing right now, Mr. Secretary. The Hungarian Chamber of Experts on Justice was given the opportunity to comment on the draft. This is also available on their website, and they evaluate the draft in sufficient length and detail, for which, I note, they received a three-day deadline for their opinion. Let me have a few more thoughts on the content. One of the important issues, as I have already referred to, is the driver's licenses attached to the new office of secretary-general. The Secretary-General proposed to exercise the right of agreement on decisions and measures taken by the delegation and the Presidency with an economic impact on the management, organisation and functioning of the Chamber. Understanding is a condition for the entry into force of decisions. Well, it's hardly possible to say at any decision that this has no effect on farming. This regulation renders the public body self-government virtually empty, as they did with the autonomy of the university. This is completely unacceptable, Mr. Secretary. The evaluation of experts must take place on an objective basis, as indicated by the Chamber of Experts, i.e. only the written and verifiable requirements can be met. The independence of the professional activity is at risk if the valuer could be considered as a competitor of the expert's market, also in the interpretation of theoretical issues in the field. According to the Hungarian Chamber of Experts on Justice, it would make expert assessment a field of inter-professional beliefs, if, for example, compliance with the theoretical elements of the field was also an aspect of evaluation. Although the text submitted has changed somewhat, it has not solved the problem. Now we will have to examine, and I quote, whether the expert acted in accordance with the relevant professional practice. The assessment of the relevant internship is also subjective - right, irrelevant, and why? - and therefore this is unacceptable, as is the previous draft. The rule leads to harsh intervention in the functioning of justice through professional activity. It is also unacceptable that the draft rules governing the obligation of the Secretary-General to report an expert and certain chamber officials, who have been defined as being a person of public service, are not, by the way, an official who, in the course of the investigation, is aware of the circumstances or the intent to commit a violent, corruption or a criminal offence against a person who is not subject to the procedure in question or which would jeopardise the life or physical integrity of another person, should be required to notify the investigating authority of any information that has been received. While the expert cannot take a stand on the issue of law, rightly so, and more than that, the experts are not legally executed, the proposal goes beyond the consequences of the failure to comply with the obligation or the false accusation of the Btk. its provisions in force. It is unclear why the procedure of the certification expert body should not be subject to the rule that the expert may accept a mandate for the preparation of a private expert opinion if it does not prevent and is not incompatible with the performance of his duties from the authority. Unfortunately, Fidesz is once again an invention of the certification body. Ladies and gentlemen, I could still describe the problems and the errors in the proposal. Perhaps it would be worth it if the fundamental problem were not to be centralized again, centralized again, and once again to bring an independent, autonomous company into public supervision. From now on, ladies and gentlemen, it does not matter what other provisions the proposal contains, otherwise moving forward if necessary. For this reason, it is completely unacceptable, and we will certainly not support it. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2016-03-30-94	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr Imre Vejkey, the lead speaker of the KDNP Group.
u2016-03-30-95	Mr President, Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, According to Article C (1) of the Fundamental Law, which entered into force on 1 January 2012, the operation of the Hungarian State is based on the principle of power sharing. The chapter of the Fundamental Law on Parliament states that Parliament is the main representative of Hungary in Hungary, which creates and amends the Fundamental Law and the laws. Article 15 of the Fundamental Law Article 21 of the Fundamental Law states that the government is the general body of the executive authority, whereas Article XXI of the Fundamental Law states that the government is the general body of the executive authority. Article 2a, XXV. The Court of Justice shall be responsible for the administration of justice within the meaning of Article 2 of the Rules of Procedure. Ladies and Gentlemen, In the field of science and technology, the recent revolutionary changes in the division of power in the area of justice have today raised the problem that the assessment of individual actions and counter-claims is mainly not a legal but a preliminary expert issue. On the basis of the above, the judge acts only as a legal expert in proceedings, whose task is to determine the legal issue between the parties. The court may appoint a judicial expert on questions that do not require legal expertise. And any relevant question which is not a question of law and whose detection and assessment requires specific non-legal expertise is a question that requires a specific question. The judicial expert therefore replaces the special expertise of the court and is responsible for explaining and evaluating the relevant issues. Ladies and Gentlemen, On the basis of the above, it can be concluded that courts may only appoint an expert in civil, criminal or non-compliance cases if the opinion is necessary to establish or assess a fact or other circumstances requiring specific expertise. With regard to experts, we currently have two laws in force, namely XLVII of 2005 on judicial expertise. Law laying down the legal and professional criteria for competence of experts and the scope of those who may carry out such activities and, on the other hand, the 1995 CXIV on the Chamber of Judicial Experts. Law. The above laws are accompanied by several ministerial decrees on the register, such as the specialities, the education of basic knowledge, expert training, expert bodies and so on. One of the main objectives of the new bill is to put the main rules on judicial experts in a single legislation with a code character. Ladies and Gentlemen, Of course, the question arises whether the existing legislation, the Chamber Act and the Professional Law fulfil the regulatory criteria and can perform their tasks. In 2014, the Commissioner for Fundamental Rights stressed, in addition to a number of findings, that judicial expert proceedings would be significantly delayed. The Ombudsman traced the causes of the problem back to the low number of experts, the lack of competence, the high number of secondments and the further shortcomings in the regulation. Also in the year 2014, the Curia's expert group, after several months of research work, presented the summary opinion on the evidence of experts, the so-called "Development of Expert in the Court of Justice." [[14.00]] Minister of Justice László Trócsányi stressed the need to further strengthen public trust in justice, to increase the quality of public tasks performed by public judicial bodies, to build an expert guard that is completely impeccable, has public confidence and cannot be influenced. Ladies and Gentlemen, On account of the above, the problems in the context of the professional operation are basically divided into two groups. On the one hand, problems relating to the functioning of judicial experts and on the other hand, problems relating to the Chamber. For the first group, the main problems to be solved are the following. Instead of the current two laws, it would be more appropriate than I said, to settle the relevant rules in a single law, in a single code. At the same time, the provisions of the legislation in question need to be clarified on several points, so to speak, by fine-tuning. It is also necessary to examine the administrative procedures of a typically lengthy judicial expert in terms of bureaucracy reduction and to reduce to a reasonable extent the duration of the prolonged procedures. The list of judicial experts is difficult to use, there is no professional feedback on the operation of experts during secondments, which creates another problem. The quality assurance system, which applies to experts, is inadequate and ethical procedures are not working well. There is a problem with the use of private expert opinions in individual proceedings before the court. The collection of judicial statistical data on the operation of experts is lacking, making it difficult to define and implement ministry tasks related to judicial experts. As regards the Chamber, the following main problems should be discussed. The Chamber is very territorially fragmented, due to a lack of resources, the operation of chambers is difficult, the remuneration of officials is not enough incentive, and the powers of the MSZK to issue formal, methodological letters and professional guidelines have hardly been the case. The legal oversight of the chamber is narrow and formal. There's no other judicial control over the chamber, so there's no legal control. Ladies and Gentlemen, In recognition of the problems and after consulting the relevant professional organisations, a bill has been drawn up which is now before this House, from which I would like to highlight the most important parts, the main regulatory points below. In the general rules, the scope of the law was clearly defined in a separate section, covering judicial expertise, judicial experts and candidates for experts, ad hoc experts, consultants and all other participants. The tasks, rights and obligations of the expert shall be defined among the provisions on judicial expertise and experts. The draft clarifies what kind of employment relationship a judicial expert may establish as an employee, thus falling under the law of his activity. The draft places great emphasis on cutting red tape and a reasonable reduction in procedural time limits. The draft shall settle the precise course of the initiation of the judicial expert activity, the management of the list of experts and its publicity, the provision of statistical data. The draft shall address all the problems identified previously and listed here; the content of the secondment shall specify the nature of the cost list; the content of the opinion shall contain the content of the opinion, and shall not take a position on legal issues, and shall provide for a separate chapter on the opinion of the private expert and include new provisions in the context of quality assurance. The first of the provisions on Chamber and Chamber proceedings is the establishment of a single Chamber of Experts and the most important rules on chamber membership fees are renewed. In order to eliminate the lack of resources, new elements will appear in the financing of the Chamber, such as the chamber's cost balance, which is not part of the income of experts; responsibility and level of disciplinary responsibility will also be regulated. Ladies and Gentlemen, Christian Democrats are basically in favour of T/9782 on judicial experts. We have legislative proposals, but we also have improvements that we would like to propose. This applies to supplementing the interpretation provisions, as well as to private experts and deadlines, as well as other clarifications, as regards the development of regional chambers in addition to centralisation and the election of chamber officials. Allow me one more, one last example. We will propose to supplement the interpretation provisions by defining the concept of judicial expertise, which should include private expertise, as this law will also govern private expertise. Thank you very much for your attention. [[It's a rare round of applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-03-30-96	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congressman Gábor Staudt, the lead speaker of the Jobbik Group.
u2016-03-30-97	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, We were looking forward to this proposal on judicial experts, and we would have expected only one more fair consultation, and we are not only parliamentary factions, but also the profession. Mr Secretary of State has said that a lot of proposals have been incorporated. Yes, I have found some of them myself, but in fact, they have not conducted a meaningful discussion with me, which would have resulted in at least the support of some or at least the majority of the profession. What's wrong with that? It's because, in our opinion, most of the forensic experts are not scoundrels. Regardless of the fact that there were some cases in the media that actually opened the knife for myself in my pocket, and, to say the least, I cried out for the strictest possible law when we looked at these cases. But reading this proposal, well, they're a little on the other side of the horse. I'm gonna tell you why. And that's exactly what could have been prevented by a fair consultation with the political authorities of the factions. After all, it would have been very good if we had been able to say those regulatory principles on the concrete proposal before the referral, and not at the social or chamber debate stage, but when the opinions of the regional chambers came in and gave a better opinion, another round with the factions. Of course, I know this is not a two-thirds proposal, but it would be good to introduce this practice with at least such important laws. It is true that, at the moment, we have seen weak rules for judicial experts, and chambers without money are trying to manage professional matters, and therefore, indeed, there have been cases that may have been involved in the press and have caused many people to be outraged for a reason. But why are they moving to the other side now with this proposal? It is not a question of making a specific proposal aimed at filtering out experts who, for good money, write opinions that the client expects or does not prepare opinions in time, or, let's say, they have been incompetent for a long time, but who does not have to check it out. We'd be partners in this. Nor does the proposal apply alone or simply to creating a Chamber, which has its financial background, and can provide self-regulation, if there is a problem, it can be intervened. [[14.10]] That's not what's in the proposal. Here, a waterhead regulation is created with a government absolute control, a command control system, which actually takes away the meaning of being a public body. So we can't really talk about local government here, or under this law we can't really talk about the right of professional government, self-government, to the Chambers of Chambers, or in the future to the Chamber of Justice. What exactly am I thinking? There will be no territorial chambers, which you justify, so that there will be a central system that can function as quasi-member organisations or branches of different territorial units. But the two-level chamber system has several reasons, and even the bar of attorneys that there is a county and national chamber, whether in appeals or even in professional control of each other. Eliminating this means eliminating a professional level among judicial experts, which often pushes the system in a dangerous direction. I will address this in the absence of appeals. They are also emancipating the Chamber, they are actually disdaining the body of the municipality, if that is the case, and if it is still allowed to be called a municipality, for example, they need government approval for the person of the President, not to mention the secretary-general. So obviously, the pressure is quite clear that if you don't choose the person the government wants to be president, you won't approve. That's all, but it's not a city council. The administrative burden on individual chamber members and experts - I think, on the basis of this proposal - will increase in an extra way to an extreme extent. Of course, this could be explained in some cases, but it is not only that the scope of statistical reporting is expanding and administrative burdens are imposed on experts in several steps, but also that they are subject to unrealistic sanctions. Even if they fail to provide certain statistical data services, and in many cases they do not even have to be warned in writing that they have not done so, they may report their membership or removal from the register. Not to mention, for example, regulations in the field of training, evaluation and substantive areas will fill in this proposal, which is not a short one. So we cannot know a lot of detailed rules - and these are very substantial things - about who will organise the training, quality assurance precisely, and whether or not they will be able to perform these tasks. Here, on a monthly basis, experts will have to judge their multi-annual work in the order of hundreds. It doesn't matter who gets to judge the other expert. Gergely Bárándy rightly quoted one of the materials that the Chambers sent us, that this can often lead to competition fights, especially in areas where there are few experts, because there are not hundreds of experts everywhere. In such areas, it can also be the result of such an assessment that competition can be turned off. Of course, let's not assume the worst, but let's not give it a chance. A three-degree evaluation can also be expected in itself. It would make sense even if someone was qualified as unfit, but I don't see it here either, the professional arguments convinced me that a three-degree system - excellently suitable, suitable, or unsuitable - I don't know where he's going to play his role. There are no other legal consequences, so who is excellently qualified or who is qualified will then be such a hierarchy, or what will decide? As we learned from the law, it is in fact goodwill that determines who will be excellently qualified and suitable. I think the big gap is that someone is incompetent or capable of doing their job. People with inadequate, abusive opinions should be screened, whether for a while, say, respected, but they may be sensitive to the sight of money, especially the sight of money. Well, in these cases, you shouldn't get emotional when it comes to deciding their status. But going further, the one-degree procedure, which actually involves the abolition of the chambers of space, results in the fact that it cannot be the Chamber's decisions, it is also in several places, on the one hand, the evaluation, the evaluation of experts, but on the other hand, in the Chamber's decisions in general, that these decisions cannot be appealed. It may be brought before a court of law, but there is no suspensory effect of a case before a court. This is brutal enough to declare someone, say, unfit or excluded, or otherwise not to appeal to other chamber decisions, and to appeal to the court has no suspensory effect. This is a bit of a fall on the other side of the horse, and maybe if the court doesn't decide quickly enough, then someone can be parked either because of an internal conflict or not necessarily because of their incompetence, they can be stripped of their profession without even being able to appeal. And as I said, after your court request, there is no suspensive effect on that. And then the chamber-cost-girl question is a pretty interesting thing. What I see here is what was played at the executive chamber, where the cost transfer was also introduced, as if recapitalisation of the executive chamber at the time. Then this was not eliminated - it was only introduced temporarily at the time - and then the Chamber's wealth swelled to billions. In this case, too, it would be good to avoid this, so, of course, a predictable, functional system should be established, but the accumulation of wealth should also be prevented. Especially if this is based on those funds or expert opinions, but why the expert has to transfer this money so that he can receive this money and then transfer it to the Chamber, it would be easier to transfer it directly to the Chamber instead of burdening the experts. This is also an unthinkable thing; and I do not know what the amount of the chamber's cost is going to be. Then I am glad that the opinion of the private expert was included in the proposal. Here, I would like to pay attention - and this is what I see in the proposal, that this is what they have sought - that a private expert opinion, if any person gives a biased opinion, should have the same sanction as, say, an opinion based on a secondment; then it does make sense, because it must be a space, yes, a private expert opinion, when preparing such an opinion for an assignment, but it must be fair and impartial. I've already told you there's no appeal against the Chamber's decisions. It's an absurd regulation, it's 63. It also appears in Section 69, and also in the case of membership, Article 69. What you're filing here is that if someone is prosecuted for a criminal offence, the prosecutor will automatically be suspended. This, let's say, could be a drunk driver, and I could list a lot of other cases in which this is an exaggerated one, and for as long as the procedure lasts, in Hungary criminal proceedings can take many years, this could be a much more serious sanction than an exclusion from the Chamber, for example, in the case of a milder crime, otherwise not related to the public mandate. So it would be nice to rethink that. [[Adam Mirkóczki will be replaced in the notary seat by Dezső Believing.]] They make the possibility of exercising minority rights very difficult. For example, a third of the members of the delegation may appeal to the courts against a decision which violates the law. This is brutal - if there is an infringement order, then what is one third of the members? Actually, that makes it very difficult. The more interesting regulation is that the delegation, as the main decision-making body, can repeal the Presidency's decision by two thirds - otherwise in the two-thirds of the other cases it is only necessary to amend the statutes - and still it cannot replace the Presidency's decision, but it can call for a new procedure or a new decision to be taken. [[14.20]] To tie this to two thirds of the main decision-making body, and not to overwrite it, is another brutal centralism, especially as I said, that the approval of the Presidency requires the consent of the minister. It's absurd that the address of the experts will be public. This seems small, but to try independence and, say, to guarantee the security of the expert in a serious criminal case, if at any time the defendant's lawyer or even the accused's large family can knock at four o'clock in the morning and ask the expert what he thought, my dear expert. It's okay for your office's address to be public, but your address to be published, I don't understand. The guy who got it out of his head didn't know what he was talking about, what he was writing down, but it's a big problem that no one thought through the Ministry when they read it. I think it is very strong for the secretary-general to expect not only legal qualifications, but also eight years of administrative practice and five years of driving practice. Of course, we need ministerial approval for his appointment. It seems like it's written on someone again, so allow it. [[Dr. András Schiffer: Oh, no.]] In addition, the Secretary-General is given the rights to approve any decisions taken by the Presidency and the delegation concerning farming. Every decision can be said to have farming implications. Mr. President, may I have a moment's extension? [[The president says yes.]] Thank you. I'll be right to the end. There's no appeal in disciplinary proceedings. I already told you that. This could generate some pretty unworthy cases. In the end, I would also like to say that it is completely incomprehensible that the new Chamber, which you are now building, cannot have an official, can not be elected in the elections by an official who has already been re-elected in the old regional or national chambers. This means that you are not only not satisfied with the activities of individual experts, but you want to decapitate the system so far. However, we would expect reasons for this. We would expect reasons, because, in writing, it means that you do not want a whole generation change, because you might accept the import of older people who have been there, but who have not been senior officials, that can mean that, but I see no reason for it. There can't be any explanation for what's been said here. This is obviously why I said that the proposal goes beyond the objectives and that we will also present an amendment to them. If these are adopted, we can consider whether the proposal is worthy of adoption at all. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2016-03-30-98	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr András Schiffer, the lead speaker of the LMP Group.
u2016-03-30-99	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, LMP can, of course, welcome the submission of a bill on judicial experts in itself. In the past years, we have also said in numerous consultations and in the course of government attacks on courts that everything that is otherwise a legitimate criticism of the lengthening of court cases is largely due to regulatory shortcomings in the judicial expert system and in judicial expertise. I myself was not involved in one or two civil cases that lasted 10 to 12 years because at least half of the time the court tried to find an appropriate expert, and it was not a space research topic, but an ordinary construction case or a construction warranty dispute. So the fact that the government - I note - is a little late, but at least to present the House with a bill for re-regulation of judicial expertise and organisation, we welcome it, of course. It would be time to realise that a number of moody outbursts against the courts can become unfounded even if the Parliament actually adopts a law that puts judicial expertise within an orderly framework. In cases of litigation, but in many cases criminal proceedings have been delayed, in many cases the anomalies of the expert system have contributed greatly to the lack of detection of the facts. I think that we all know about cases, not only civil but also criminal cases, where the unjustified delay and even, where appropriate, the delay of cases caused by the unsolved problems of the entire list of experts and the organization of experts, for which Hungary was subsequently condemned in Strasbourg. When we talk about judicial expertise, it does not hurt to go back to the stove to see what it is intended at all, the role of the judicial expert in the various judicial or administrative procedures. The procedural laws place the judicial expert in such a way that if the court or the authority is to decide on a matter for which specific expertise is required, the decisive judicial and administrative forum can do so with the help of an external expert. This also means that in a significant part of the cases, typically a significant part of court cases, the expert may actually, even if not procedurally, but factually almost equal the position of judge. For in cases where the merits of the case can be decided only after a fundamental question is identified and qualified, the judicial expert has tremendous power over the judicial decision that will be taken at the end. That is why I think that there are two aspects to be taken into account when preparing such a bill, or there is a debate in the House about such a bill. One is the question that was partly identified by the Ministry's problem map as to whether judicial expertise helps to complete cases within a reasonable and reasonable time. The second question, however, is whether the regulation of the judicial expert system ensures the impartial, independent functioning of the judiciary. These are the two aspects that we need to balance. The operational anomalies that the Ministry has identified, I think they're correct. Thus, the difficulty in using a list of experts, the fact that the quality assurance system is inadequate, ethical procedures do not work well, or the lack of adequate collection of judicial statistics for expert activities, and I go further, is that the rule of law over the Chamber is narrow and formal, too reactive, all of these are correct findings. Compared to this, the bill would create a quality assurance system, quite rightly. Instead of ethical responsibility, disciplinary responsibility will be the primary priority, the institution of the chamber's budget reduction will be introduced, certain procedural deadlines will be reduced, registration in the register can automatically become a chamber member, and electronic statistical data provision obligations will be imposed. These, I think, are all acceptable steps in themselves, and I will go on, instead of the territorially structured chamber system itself, the introduction of a unified chamber organization at the Faculty of Justice, I think it would not be from the devil. Here, I note, however, that I feel that there is, in the area of efficiency, a technical failure to justify the bill. In particular, if the judicial system converts to electronic administration within a closed period of time, i.e. to the submission of forms of action by electronic means, to the conduct of various actions by electronic means at all, this is not reflected in this bill. I go further: not only is it not settled in the bill that the judicial expert is obliged to have adequate access and to submit the expert's opinion electronically, which is, I think, if it is an effective bill with adequate quality assurance, an incomprehensible deficiency. [[14.30]] But I will go further: when the bill is very rightly talking about training, training of judicial experts and candidates for experts, this should also be extended to electronic administration, to the knowledge of electronic procedural forms. Therefore, it will not be possible that, while electronic administration is required in all tastes of the different procedures, judicial experts will continue to operate on paper and do not necessarily have access to what is necessary for electronic administration. I note here that the cost of this may be to reduce the cost margin for judicial experts. At the same time, the other pan of the balance sheet is that, in particular, it is possible, let us speak openly, to intervene in the independent and impartial functioning of the judiciary through judicial expertise and the system of judicial expert organisations. It's very right that forensic experts have chambers. I note here that the story is quite different with the executives, because the enforcer is not an independent actor, he carries out the state will. In the case of judicial experts, it is very right that there is a public body. And the fact that there is a public body, professional self-management is also important in terms of guaranteeing that the executive power, for example, cannot manipulate through judicial expertise. My fellow Member, Répássy, in his speech to the lead speaker, rightly stated that the portfolio does not exercise legal oversight over judicial expertise. The problem is, that's not quite what it says here. So we agree perfectly with the principle, but when the appointment of the President and the Secretary-General is already subject to a prime minister's right, when the register is not only led by the Ministry, because it can be approved that the registrar's task should be performed by the Ministry, but it is also decided by the Ministry on the inclusion in the register, and then the appeal is of one degree, which raises serious constitutional issues, then it is quite simply a question of the fact that judicial expertise is provided to the professional, practically the functions of the public body, the self-director, the local government functions of the Chamber cannot perform - the question is that what is needed then. So I'll tell you once again: the management of the register is in the Ministry's hair and skin; otherwise, the bill correctly says that the registration of a member of the Chamber will be a member of the Chamber, so it is practically stated that the membership of the Chamber is also dependent on a ministerial act; two, the Chamber's leaders are dependent on ministerial approval, and otherwise, the right to appeal of experts is limited, so this means that there is complete vulnerability to the executive power. So exactly the principle that my fellow Member Répássy rightly mentioned in his speech as the lead speaker is not valid. Moreover, it is not the horse's foot, but the whole horse's army that hangs out - we have seen this before, and I think what my fellow Member Staudt said is that we probably already have the candidates at the top of the chamber - when they make a rule that current chamber officials can no longer be chamber officials in the new system. So you can't do that. And once again, I would like to draw attention to the fact that there is a territorial division of the Chamber or no territorial division, I do not consider this to be a very important issue. However, the fact that there is an effective remedy within the Bar Association on various disciplinary ethical issues involving experts is a matter of constitutionality. So it can be a single chamber, but then the single chamber must have the possibility of redress for experts subject to disciplinary-ethical proceedings. To sum up, I can say that, of course, we welcome and consider the bill to be important, but if, and if, technically speaking, the Chamber is placed under ministerial guardianship, we will obviously not be able to support this bill. So, while the bill is taking a number of welcome steps in terms of efficiency, it goes in that direction, and since 2011, it has been practically routine when the laws on justice come before the House that virtually the appointed executives, government or government want to interfere with the functioning of justice. It is a guarantee that the Chamber will supervise judicial experts, but, as my fellow Member Répássy said, the Chamber will be able to exercise legal oversight over individual experts if it is itself autonomous; autonomous against the State. Therefore, it is not possible to appoint the persons who direct the Chamber, the President and the Secretary-General, with the right of a lord in chief, or that the membership of the Chamber is, in effect, dependent on a ministerial approval act. We sense the danger, there are a number of cases, if you like, a fairly significant majority of court cases, although it was obviously interesting to have a judicial statistical statement on this, where the merit of the matter is essentially determined by the opinion of the expert in the field of judicial matters. It is possible to intervene through the system of judicial expertise to decide specific judicial matters. Obviously, this is not about ordinary people's ordinary affairs, but it should not be an illusion, for example, in cases where a state or state firm is a party to a lawsuit on a civil economic matter, if and if the judicial expert system is placed under ministerial guardianship, we will use the suspicion suit that there will be a guarantee of judicial independence and impartiality, not through a two-thirds law - because you do not have two-thirds - but bypassing it. Two weeks ago, the detour was to try to decide matters here in Parliament by means of legislative instruments, by simple majority legislative means; here the President of the Republic intervened quite rightly. But now we are looking at an attempt to intervene in the functioning of justice by bringing the judicial expert system under the Ministry again, and to breach the shield of independence, as far as justice is concerned. So as far as the powers of minister are concerned, as far as the person of the President or the Secretary-General is concerned, and the exclusive mandate of the Ministry in relation to the management of the register and thus the establishment of chamber membership is concerned, this is unacceptable; otherwise, we welcome the bill, the direction of the bill, its efficiency-enhancing objectives. Thank you very much.
u2016-03-30-100	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. As no independent Members have indicated their intention to speak, no two-minute speeches have been made, no written statements of opposition have been made, and the speeches will now take place. I give the floor to Congressman Gábor Staudt.
u2016-03-30-101	Thank you, Mr. President. I would like to add one more thing very briefly, and it seems that even on the opposition side, we have been looking forward to this proposal, even though we see that the area needs to be regulated, and, as I said, we were very much looking forward to this proposal being put on the table of Parliament. There's no other way to do it anyway, but I'm 17. I would also like to quote for the sake of the minutes exactly what our problems with the evaluation are, in relation to the evaluation of experts, including this. Paragraph (2) is about - and I would repeat that we do not know exactly the part of the criteria or assessment that will be carried out, which will be regulated in regulations, but - in terms of its objectives, the proposal states that the unbiased assessment of its work - that is, we are talking about the evaluation of the work of the judicial expert, that is all right - the exploration of knowledge, abilities and personality traits that will affect its performance; again, I feel that this is just underage. [[14.40]] I would like to reiterate that we do not know exactly the part of the criteria or assessment that will be carried out, it will still be regulated in regulations, but - in terms of its objectives, the proposal states that the unbiased assessment of its work - i.e. the evaluation of the work of the judicial expert, that is all right - is the exploration of knowledge, abilities and personality traits that will affect its performance; I again feel that this is an underage. (14.40) If someone were so unfit for this profession, and it wasn't just that they had become corrupt or didn't keep up with the times, then it should have come to light when they got their assignment. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. The assessment will have to be explored and there are a lot of points here. I would like to point out once again, point (f):. The judicial expert has complied with the requirements for further training. That's okay, because you take part in a training course, you confirm it, you sign it, you might take some kind of exam. Once again, we do not see exactly what kind of further training this will be, but the government decrees will certainly tell us that. And here comes the interesting semi-spoken phrase:, and their results have been properly integrated into their professional activities. It is about the Ministry organizing a training, we do not know by whom and how, and if this training shows the judicial expert who signed it to prove that he was there, whether he passes the exam, that's okay, but if he doesn't integrate that knowledge into his opinions in the future, then he can get an inadequate qualification and lose his job or his presence in the list of judicial experts. This means that what will be discussed in a training course that we do not know now by whom, and we do not know how it will be organised, but what will be said there must be incorporated into its work as dogma by all experts in the future. I think that this is problematic - and it has the consequences, as I said, that it can be classified as unfit - because it has the consequence that, in fact, the professional debate can end, because if someone does not stick to what will be said in a future training course, then he can punch his ankle. And who knows if what is said there is otherwise a hundred percent professionally clear whether it meets international standards in any case. Who will control whether what is said, say, in a ministry training course, can be used as a quasi-dogma in the future? This brings back a little decades of communism to me, that what they say in the center must be kept by the expert even if, by the way, science has already transcended, or, in the light of new scientific knowledge, it is completely different, and in practice it is just a training, and not a guide, professional letter, or any document that can be considered official, that can be renewed, which can be reviewed, which can be referred to, but only a training held by someone. For these reasons, I find the proposal to be unthinkable and should have been more involved in the profession, and not only give them a three-day deadline to draft their proposals, but also bring this proposal here with a dialogue and a real professional consensus. I'm so sorry this didn't work out. Mr Secretary, it is still time, and until the proposal is adopted, we can do so. We will do less harm if we accept it later than if such errors remain in it, and in the future, faulty principles or the wrong material of an education must be incorporated into the work of experts. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2016-03-30-102	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I am asking if anyone else would like to speak on the agenda. [[There's no candidate.]] I don't see any contact. The general debate is closed. I will ask Mr State Secretary if he wishes to respond to what has been said in the debate. [[Dr. Völner on Pál's signal:]] Yes, the floor is yours, Mr. Secretary.
u2016-03-30-103	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, There have been a number of questions in the debate, but first of all I would like to thank everyone for their constructive attitude that no one has disputed that we have a timely bill that is trying to find solutions to the problems that have arisen that slow down and make the functioning of justice difficult. Congressman Bárándy mentioned what data, what surveys were used to advance the law. I mentioned in the introduction itself that both the Curia and the Commissioner for Fundamental Rights prepared reports in 2014 that highlighted the system's flaws and the necessary changes that this bill will hopefully address. During the legislative process, the MISZK, the Hungarian Chamber of Judicial Experts, was involved, and according to the law, we have to involve the national organization of the Chamber. So the letter quoted by the Member from the MSZK was, in effect, given that it was not part of the conciliation, it was born outside of it. Public confidence data: if you only think of the press of the last period, I can mention the Rezesová case or the red sludge case, where the operation of experts has become a spotlight. It is clear that even criticisms of the judiciary could have come from an expert side, or that decisions could have been very strongly influenced, let us say, in the case of the Rezesová case or in the case of the red sludge case. The Impact Assessment Paper, which concerns budgetary implications, was, of course, a part of the process. Regarding the Secretary-General's comment: the role of the Secretary-General is functional and therefore does not address professional issues. Several contributions from both the President and the Secretary-General have been made to influence the course of justice here by means of ministerial powers. If we think that there may be a judicial ministerial authority in other states in the appointment of a judge in such appointing procedure, then the independence of the judiciary branch is not threatened by this functional role of the ministry - I think we can rest assured - after I find it difficult to imagine that the identity of the appointing minister or the role of the ministry could influence such a result in any direction. With regard to experts: most of the 3500 experts are not state experts, so they operate on the market in this sense. Mr Staudt to my fellow Member Gábor: the consultation with the factions, which Mr. President missed in the same way as the two-thirds laws, hopefully the parliamentary section, if questions arise and the amendments come in, will be able to go through this properly and to discuss the positions, but if necessary, we will naturally be available, even for a faction reconciliation. That there is no appeal against the Chamber's decision or the Ministry's decisions: since the Chamber is one-level, the possibility of the Boards of Appeal is limited, but the judicial path may be a sufficient solution in these cases, and independence is also guaranteed. The address for notification of experts is also known in the current procedures. The comment on the address will be made to make sure that it does contain the address, and we will, of course, take this point further. Sanctions relating to statistics: no statistics have been produced so far, so the courts had nothing to rely on in the case of secondments. This is why there is a sanction for the statistical service in case of non-reporting. Why is quality assurance at the Chamber? I think that when we talk about the powers of autonomy, it is also worth considering that this can clearly strengthen autonomy. That this is competitive, not competitive, is indeed a discussionable subject, but obviously within the Chamber there is the expertise that is capable of providing meaningful quality assurance. If we compare this with the fact that, if this were also a ministerial competence, then what about the issue of independence, I think it is better to apply this solution and, in any case, to be considered more justified professionally. Member Bárándy also touched on the issue of how the independence of the Chamber is affected by this type of new legislative process. [[14.50]] However, we must not forget that this is not about the independence of the judiciary and not about an unlimited independence; it is also the government and the Ministry of Justice that are responsible for their activities in the area of justice, so, under this responsibility, we need to establish rules that ensure faster justice, more effective justice, and this is clearly not possible without means, because the current situation will be preserved further. Member András Schiffer also touched on a question which was not mentioned earlier, for example, in the area of electronic administration, that it is not regulated by sectoral law, but that it is planned to be introduced separately, and that it has not been left out of the law so to speak. We need a transitional period, because a large part of the experts are elderly people, and we need to provide a suitable transitional period for them to switch to this change. The Ministry of Justice will continue to provide training opportunities in the field of training. Ministerial guardianship has also been heard from Mr Schiffer. And here, with regard to influence, the fact that creating a false opinion is currently a crime, so if anyone is involved in this in any form. I believe that criminal law provides sufficient guarantees that this will not happen. Once again, I would like to thank everyone for their active participation. Hopefully, if the amendments are necessary, we will be able to make them later. I ask for the support of the bill. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-03-30-104	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, The amendment proposals can be submitted by 4 p.m. on Friday. Dear Parliament, There will be a general debate on the bill on foreign representations and permanent external service until closure. The government referral is T/9784. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, I give the floor to Mr Magyar Levente, State Secretary of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Trade, the rapporteur of the item on the agenda. Secretary of State, you have the floor.
u2016-03-30-105	Mr President, thank you very much for the floor. Dear House, The submission of the bill on foreign representations and permanent foreign service was preceded by a 15th century process of reflection. The Hungarian diplomatic faculty has made several attempts to create a so-called Foreign Affairs Act, approached the possible subject of legislation from time to time, from the fullest circle of foreign service, diplomacy, to answer theoretical questions and practical tasks. It is no coincidence, Honourable House, that the theoretical planning process leading to the current bill started in spring 2015, since the establishment of an external administration involving the foreign economy and cultural and scientific diplomacy was completed by this time, in addition to the classic diplomatic tasks. Not only has the task and toolbox of Hungarian foreign policy been expanded, but the role of representation and protection of national interests abroad is also highlighted, the role played in the representation and development of successful and successful Hungary, and the consistent representation of Hungarian positions. International experience was also taken into account when drawing up the first drafts. With the involvement of our missions, we have assessed whether there is a Foreign Affairs Act in some specific European countries, if so, what major regulatory subjects they contain, and we have also consulted the competent technical committee of the United Nations. During the work, we have set out the goals that we want to achieve in creating and creating regulation. We considered it a fundamental goal that the legislator should also symbolically close the creation of a single foreign administration, we include the diverse diffuse legislation at various levels of regulation, we recognise the work and role that Hungarian foreign policy and members of Hungarian diplomacy are performing in articulating, representing Hungary's interests and meeting the 21st. The challenges of the 20th century, we recognise the new life situations that we need to codify with a new approach and content. These objectives have, in my opinion, been met. Raising the level of regulation to the legal level has been able to change the basic provisions under the strictest legislative conditions, thereby guaranteeing the long-term stability and predictability of the system. By implementing regulations at ministerial level, it will be possible for the Minister to adapt to the frequently changing circumstances the detailed rules which do not require a legislative level and which are the most important part of the day-to-day operation. We have chosen a narrower area from the fullness of the scope of regulation of the bill in the world of diplomacy. The proposal covers the main rules of foreign representations and permanent external service. Our aim was to ensure the efficiency of the external representation network, its rapid responsiveness and the establishment of a stable, uniform and transparent external service system. We have recorded the legal status, structure, operation, internal relations of foreign representations, the responsibilities of the head of the foreign representation. In this context, the regulatory proposal defines the types of foreign representations of Hungary, their status and non-autonomous units operating as part of foreign representations, on the basis of internal law and international law. The regulatory proposal provides the legal basis for foreign Hungarian cultural institutions to function as non-individual units of foreign representations in the future. In addition, we have regulated the expectations of the staff, as well as the guarantee rules, including the range of government service workers who can be assigned to permanent external service, the basic conditions and rules of placement, the system of application, preparation, the content of the posting document, the criteria for rank donation. However, with regard to the definition of the subject matter of the regulation, we propose that the rules governing the permanent representation of Hungary with the European Union be laid down in a separate law, with the exception of those laid down in the scope of this bill. CHAPTER XXI In order to meet the requirements of the 20th century and to meet its new challenges, the bill sets out the range of government servants who can be assigned to permanent external service. No staff with working relationship shall be placed on a permanent external service in an ascending system. We also set the requirements for the diplomatic faculty when setting the requirements for school education, professional qualifications, professional examination requirements and language skills. We considered it important, and during the codification and then the conciliation rounds, we agreed several times on the social security of the spouse of the displaced persons. The regulatory proposal requires an obligation to conclude an agreement for the purpose of earning the pensionable service and pension fund income of the posted spouse, in view of his or her family status. In view of his family status, we have created the third pillar of foreign exchange allowances and certain rules on reimbursement. The purpose of these rules is to interrupt the work of the spouse, registered partner or registered partner of the displaced persons in Hungary, and, if he does not have the opportunity to work at the station, his income lost is partially compensated by the allowance. [[Dr. István Hiller, vice-president of the Parliament, takes the chair.]] Among the principles that came back in the bill, I have repeatedly mentioned stability, flexibility and guarantee elements with examples. These, complemented by the specific principles related to the regulatory area, are also reflected in the chapter on responsibilities in the reform of the legislative proposal. In our view, the new remuneration system, which is to be introduced by the bill, is more in line with the principle of social justice. It shall be entitled to uniform remuneration during the duration of its permanent external service. In view of its work abroad, it shall receive a currency entitlement determined on the basis of the method of calculation laid down in the law and its implementing regulations. The rules on currency instruments are set out in detail in the proposal, and I do not recall them here, but I would like to highlight the following in any case. In addition to the principle of seniority retained in the case of subordinate diplomats, the principle of equal pay for those with the same job is given greater emphasis than in the previous classification system. [[15.00]] Differentiation is carried out on a station-by-station basis with the enforcement of the foreign currency allowance as set out in the bill. The detailed rules of this are laid down in the Foreign Policy Minister's regulation, i.e. the principle of stability and flexibility. Thus, after the adoption of the bill, the difference between the remuneration of two ambassadors is the place at which he performs his duties as Head of Mission. We wish to assign a higher salary to work in foreign policy, externally, and in the context of difficult living conditions. I have repeatedly referred to the fact that, at the time of the establishment of the regulation, We wanted to meet the new challenges of the century. This approach is repeatedly reflected in the rules of the system of reimbursement. The introduction of a transparent, easy-to-control and efficient flat-rate reimbursement system is a fundamental novelty compared to previous legislation. The elements of the system are also regulated in detail here by the bill. These include all the elements that have triggered the reimbursement of expenses and benefits in kind, which appear under a separate heading in the previous scheme. On the one hand, this regulatory proposal increases the scope and freedom of movement, responsibility, dignity and, on the other hand, contributes to the predictable planning of the budget of the seconded and outgoing body, on the other hand, and, on the other hand, contributes significantly to the reduction of administrative and bureaucratic burdens at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Trade. The bill, as I have shown above, meets both the classic traditions of diplomacy and the requirements of the new times, and allows our representations and workers to represent Hungary's interests and values in a flexible manner and at a high level. Mr President, Dear House, As you may hear from what has been said, this bill is basically technical in nature, incorporating technical principles into a system that has been partly improvised for 25 years and is based on previous, now obsolete regulation. The political, ideological and evaluation background of this bill is limited due to its technical nature; here we merely want to regulate and help to address the challenges that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs has to deal with every day in an ever-increasing world, with an increasingly complex system of relationships and relationships. In the first century, it was able to fully meet these requirements. This requires a stable, predictable, long-term background control system that makes the system predictable and consistent for both staff and institutional operation. We want to facilitate this with this bill, which, once again, has been waiting for a long time. This is a decade-long majority of foreign affairs administration. I am pleased that it is the current government that has had the courage and strength to make this far-reaching, but I would like to emphasise once again that it is essentially a technical proposal that it is fortunate to make. Mr President, Thank you for the floor. Dear House, I ask for the support of the bill. [[It's a rare round of applause from the pro-government ranks.]]
u2016-03-30-106	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Welcome. We will continue with our work, with speeches from the lead speaker. First, I give the floor to Mr Zsolt Németh, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group. Here you go.
u2016-03-30-107	Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, The bill on foreign representations and permanent foreign service before us - if you will allow us, from now on we will simply call it the Foreign Affairs Act - indeed address a two-and-a-half-decade regulatory deficiency. The creation of career models for civil servants is known to be a priority objective for the Fidesz-KDNP administration. It seems that diplomacy will also take place after the countless career models of civil servants. It is a very important prerequisite for the effectiveness of diplomacy that the hierarchy, let us say, can coordinate a paramilitary system with the rather specific characteristics of foreign life that try to make a person, a spouse, a family. To mention the debts, the definition of foreign representation in Hungarian law has so far been unclear, and the rights and obligations of permanent foreign government officials are still regulated only by a government decree. It is a sign of appreciation for diplomacy that this is finally guaranteed by the government in law. At the same time, however, it should be pointed out that the proposal only deals with and does not fully address what is referred to in its title, i.e. it does not cover the entire management of foreign affairs. As regards the infrastructure and asset management of foreign representations, further legislative tasks remain, such as the creation of reasonable conditions for the management of foreign assets, which are not too long behind schedule. I can only hope that we will not miss this opportunity by not addressing these key issues now. An essential element of the law is remuneration, which empowers the Minister responsible for foreign policy to classify foreign representations into four categories according to the government's foreign policy objectives and the importance of bilateral and multilateral diplomatic relations. The main differentiation aspect is the place of service, rather than the previously dominant senility, or other more arbitrary professional or other aspects. The highest category will include up to 20 key representatives. I consider it important, both from a neighbourhood policy perspective and from a national policy point of view, that all the foreign representations of the countries neighbouring our country should be placed in this priority category. The same is true of the Visegrád countries, and I understand that this coincides with the ideas of the Ministry. In view of the fact that those working in these agencies receive a significant 30 per cent allowance, this could encourage our most prepared diplomats to apply for these regional posts, and not only Brussels, Paris, London or Berlin will seize the imagination of our diplomats. This could also bring about an appreciation of regional skills and language skills within the Ministry. To be stylish, with this regional language skills, we are quite Czech for the time being. New regulation of the benefits of external service providers is a key element of the Foreign Affairs Act. First of all, it must be stated that the socialist system is finally over with the fact that the diplomat receives two salaries: on the one hand, his domestic salary and, on the other hand, a foreign salary. In view of the fact that the posted person does not do actual work in the country under foreign service, there is also a legitimate social expectation that he will not be paid for it. At the same time, it is fairer and fairer to the delegate if he receives a salary, but it is worthy of the task he carries out. Another conceptual novelty of the system of benefits is that the benefits in kind and the costs reimbursed by itemised accounts are now replaced by free-to-use, tax-free and unpaid reimbursements. This reimbursement will be based on three aspects: housing, schooling and mixed expenses. But the diplomat will be able to decide for himself the amount of money he spends for each purpose. I believe that this new system will increase the leeway of its deployment, at the same time its responsibilities, and a significant reduction in the administrative burden, which could make the ratio between diplomatic and administrative personnel in the Ministry more reasonable. Although the law sets only framework rules and the amount of funds enabling each benefit to be calculated will be determined by the Budget Act, it is already clear that, as a result of the transformation of the system of allowances, the financial value and scope of the posted persons will increase. [[15.10]] This is also necessary for Hungarian diplomacy, because today we stand in the top 27th place in EU comparison with the pay of diplomats, and only Bulgaria is prevented. It follows, therefore, that we stand at the top-of-the-line in the EU comparison. The entry into force of the Act in August 2017 allows about 1260 people currently on the external service to prepare for the changes. In both the 1260 cases, the Ministry must carefully count the salaries, and it is important that no one is worse off than his previous financial situation. A guarantee element is explicitly stated in the law that if there were any person who would benefit better under the previous scheme, he would receive a benefit under the previous scheme until the completion of his ongoing external service. You can only approve of that. Finally, allow me to address a number of issues that still need to be clarified. Firstly, as regards the conditions for placement, in which security or national security considerations are therefore irrelevant, the bill, in its current form, gives the Minister the opportunity, in justified cases, to waive the requirement to reside in Hungary or not to become a national of the host State. These exceptions may, in my view, be justified in the case of the Head of Representation, but it is unfortunate to extend this possibility to all delegates. I would also like to present an amending proposal in this respect. Secondly, as far as rank donation is concerned, according to the current draft, it is possible, if the nature of the station or of the work carried out by the posted person justifies this, to allow the Minister to use diplomatic rank also for those who do not meet the general conditions set out in this respect, for example a higher education degree or appropriate language skills. In my view, this exception should be reviewed for each placement, i.e. it should be possible not to donate rank but to allow temporary use of rank. In this way, we can create the conditions for a person who does not have the conditions to be able, over time, to pass the language exam, and the rest, and therefore to receive the appropriate donation of rank on the basis of the normal order. I would also like to propose an amendment in this respect. There is also a need for clarification on cultural and educational entrepreneurship that can be pursued by foreign representations. I would like to highlight this in particular because this is in connection with the way in which the cultural institution system is integrated into the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, but the provisions of the Vienna Convention of 1963 must also be respected, so that entrepreneurship must not conflict with international legal obligations. I would also like to propose an amendment in this regard. With regard to the subsidies and donations that we can provide by the Ministry, we also see the need for clarification, we believe that we need to better control such activities and that it is necessary to conclude this with the approval of the Ministry's Secretary of State for Administration. We would also like to submit a proposal in this regard. Overall, it can be concluded that the draft Foreign Affairs Act adequately regulates the operation of foreign representations and permanent external service, increases the leeway of delegates in a fair and fair manner and increases their responsibilities, thus regulating the responsibilities of diplomats and delegates, and I therefore support the adoption of the law on my part and on behalf of the Fidesz faction. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2016-03-30-108	Thank you very much. Congressman Attila Mesterházy, head speaker of the MSZP. Here you go.
u2016-03-30-109	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, Indeed, I would like to start with what Zsolt Németh said, that the intention is noble, so it is right that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs should present such legislation. I would also like to add immediately that the strange situation arose that the amendments Zsolt Németh spoke about could be opposition amendments, as we ourselves felt similar concerns in this draft law. So let me advance on the fact that when these amendments arrive in committee or Parliament, the Socialist Party will support these amendments and thank Zsolt Németh for raising these concerns before me. Basically, I would think that, and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs has failed to do so, although it has repeatedly promised to do so, such a law would indeed have a 100% or optimal effect if, let me say, there were, say, a foreign policy strategy for Hungary, and it could be sewed to this foreign policy strategy, if I may put it this way, the button to the coat and not the coat to the button. In fact, it would be possible to interpret what these priorities are, what the target countries are that are important and how to distinguish between one or another embassy where appropriate, because, as Zsolt Németh said, the neighbouring countries, the countries in the Carpathian Basin, must be embassies of a particular national interest, but there are also a number of destinations in the world in terms of the southern opening, eastern opening and many openings that the government has referred to, which may belong to this area. Let's hope you can get this number 20. It is true, indeed, that if such a task had already been undertaken by the government at the legal level, it would have been worth it if, in this regard, all the outstanding issues of the operation of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, not only those mentioned here, but indeed the administration as a whole, as Zsolt Németh said, had been introduced here by the legislators or the initiators. That is why it would be worthwhile if the Ministry of Foreign Affairs succeeded in establishing a comprehensive diplomatic career law, which somehow settles the situation of diplomats from training to retirement, and also provides a kind of planning for people working or choosing to work in the External Action Service. Mr Secretary of State said that at last this government had the courage to regulate at the statutory level what had previously been badly regulated, at the level of regulation, by previous governments in the wrong way. As a small matter, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that what we are talking about in this law is 90 percent in the regulation you referred to. This decree is 172/2012, I would say only because this government decree was issued during the Fidesz government. The regulation in this regulation is incorporated into this law, so it didn't take such a big-ass barrio on the part of the government to bring it to Parliament. Zsolt Németh actually mentioned these, how the extra salary will be calculated, the salary of the diplomats. Reading this regulation as a layman, although I don't have to understand it, because I'm not a diplomat, but talking to a diplomat or two, ambassadors, they themselves don't understand how their salary is calculated in the near future. So the Ministry of Foreign Affairs managed to put together an extremely complicated and opaque formula. Let us hope that the Secretary of State and the Secretary of State of Public Administration understand at least how this will be calculated. That is why we do not see, we do not know exactly which will be - as has been said in the speech before me - the twenty countries that will be highlighted. However, we also do not see which countries will also receive a special allowance for diplomats working there, on the basis of some kind of living-life considerations, because they have to work under conditions that make life and working conditions more difficult, whether in terms of security or in many other ways. [[15.20]] Now we could also raise the question of how this is going to be taxed, but these are certainly clear questions. I would just like to refer to this because, once again, those involved do not understand that this is actually going to lead to a better or worse situation for them. But let me still say that we ourselves do not understand how this system will work and how wages will be calculated, but let me put it a little more pessimisticly or ironically, as Zsolt Németh said: it seems to me that the legislator does not know, either, because if you incorporate a regulation into this law that if someone goes worse, then this regulation does not apply to him, it means that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs has no idea who of its own employees is going to be worse, or who will go better, or at least at first reading this is what this current bill and the regulations contained therein tell you. For my part, but I can safely say on the part of the faction that the direction that the State Secretary of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs expressed here in the words is correct, so I am willing to accept the claim that Hungarian diplomats will benefit better from this regulation, i.e. in a material sense they will benefit better, because it is absolutely legitimate, and we have known this statistics for years, to which Zsolt Németh also claimed that we are among the last in the EU to pay Hungarian diplomats. But if you look at the narrower cooperation circle, the Hungarian government is much worse even in terms of the Visegrád Four or their average. So perhaps it would have been worth including a regulator in this law that the average of the Visegrád four should not be less than the wages of Hungarian diplomats, if we consider cooperation with the Visegrád four to be so important - if appropriate - then we could adapt to them in terms of wages. So in Hungarian: I am willing to accept that everyone will have a better salary, a higher remuneration, or at least not worsening, and this is necessary, I would say once again. Perhaps it will be worth returning to this in a year's time, or when the law came into force, after that statement, which is indeed what the Secretary of State said, this can be interpreted in practice. The Secretary of State also spoke about it in his speech, but the fact that he wishes to provide a predictable and stable career model for the delegates appears repeatedly as a key motif in the law. Now this bill is full of exceptions to the fact that there is tendering, there is a system of criteria, but immediately after that it is written, "Yeah, otherwise it doesn't matter, because if the Minister of Foreign Affairs decides, then every application, every criterion system can be exempted. Well, then it would have been a lot easier to write in it that it doesn't matter who it is, the Secretary of State decides, and then you don't have to mess around with applications and criteria and a lot of things, because we're making the career model frivolous. So if one person can grant immunity from every rule in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the outgoing leader, as the law says, what on earth is there to apply for? Then we entertain our diplomats, or part of them, that they do have to apply, but the judge in Ghevi doesn't have to apply because he's a buddy at the X.Y. for someone in the State Department. So I would think that these exceptions should also be removed from this draft law, and the wording that instead of excluding the criteria for qualifying as a designated diplomat, I think we should forget that if we are to take seriously the choice of Hungarian diplomats to represent the nation on the basis of professional criteria. Another such neural point is that the bill states that the posted person must have a permanent residence in Hungary and live in Hungary as a way of life. Zsolt Németh referred to this. Let me ask you, Mr. Secretary, is there something wrong with the two words "Hungarian citizen"? So why is it not in this paper that a foreign diplomat who is a Hungarian citizen can be a foreign diplomat? We have heard so many times the words and attacks of Hungarian interest, sovereignty, freedom from foreign influence, or, as I call it, his comments in this Parliament, why are we afraid of the word that whoever we want to send must be a Hungarian citizen? Then it is clear that he is here all the time in Hungary, he has a permanent address, because Hungarian citizens typically live in Hungary, and they have a permanent Hungarian address, because without it it it would be difficult to touch this right. The question arises inexorably: if you miss these two words, whether you are a Hungarian citizen of this draft law, then it arises whether this is not another type of personalised legislation. I don't know who the person is, or who's already out there or who's going to be sent out, who's only going to meet these parameters in this form, and in the logic of political reward, it would be worth sending him away, and let's say, instead of New Zealand, we could open up new embassies in a very good place, so that we could reward politically committed people with the Hungarian taxpayers' money for a few hundred million forints, as in the case of New Zealand. This may not be the intention of the legislator, but with so many suspicions let him live with opposition or malice, if I were to put it to you in a way that would make you feel better, whether it was not again that there were political appointees who wanted the Foreign Ministry to pave the way for them to become ambassadors. And as I see it, in the case of Zsolt Németh, this question was raised, or it was raised in his mind as well. I must admit, I would not only narrow this circle down to ambassadors, I do not think that there is any reason for an ambassador not to have to be a Hungarian citizen, and I do not think that the banning factor or the ban on being a citizen of the host state is enough. I also think that there are concerns about a lot of other national security considerations or national interests, and I do not want to go into this in more detail. I did not understand exactly why, on the basis of the bill, it differentiates between EU diplomacy and non-EU diplomacy. I believe that there is a Hungarian foreign policy, and that is part of the EU diplomacy. Zsolt Németh mentioned - that's why I bring this example here - questions about rank donation, but this distinction appears in several places in the law. And I fully agree that diplomatic rank is a rank, so people work relatively hard in their lives, learn a lot for it, commit themselves to it, train themselves. It's a professional quality. It's not like we're on the market, we're giving and buying, and then we're giving a business card to the guy who's a buddy. Therefore, I would also like to consider the fact that we should not give everyone a diplomatic rank on a hoc basis, because this is a devaluement of the operation of the diplomatic body so far. And then what I'm writing to myself is that I don't understand exactly how the deployment period is going to suddenly be five years. For some reason, four years wasn't good, this government reduced it to three years. We also said that three years is too little, because a diplomat spends six months searching for the doorknob - now I'm a bit sarcastic - and the last six months he's thinking about where he'll come home and what his fate will be. So he has relatively few useful years, from the nation's point of view, a useful year for work; the 4 years seemed like an ideal period. I guess it can't be 4 years again because it was 4 years in our period; it's going to be 5 years, which can be extended another year. Now, the problem with this again is that I do not say it, the people in the profession say that 6 years is a bit long, however, from the point of view of the fact that, in the case of such a period of time, the person sent to Hungary may lose contact with the Hungarian reality, so in Hungarian: after a while it will be difficult to know whether he represents the interests of the host state here or to Hungary, or in the traditional role he represents the Hungarian national interest. Indeed, I would like to suggest the operation of cultural institutions from the point of view of enterprise, as Zsolt Németh said, I think it is in conflict with the Vienna Convention he mentioned. I do not know why the economic and other autonomy of these institutions should be so cut, I think they have done their job well, regardless of which government was in power. I think it is unjustified to limit their independence and freedom to such a level. So, overall, I can say that, while the intention is good and right, and it is certainly worthy of support, I see that it hangs in the air a little bit, this regulation is not complete; without a strategy it can be difficult. The effect is not exactly visible, there are a number of inaccurate wordings, rubber regulations, specialization, customization and many other problems, which are indeed addressed by these modifiers, about which Zsolt Németh spoke, and I think they are important modifiers, they can be made better or more legal, or they can be brought into line with conventions. However, overall, we believe that this draft law, which I have just listed here, cannot be supported overall by our faction. It might have been worth discussing within the ruling party, because it is strange that the ruling party is putting in place amendments that would be in the honour of an opposition. Thank you very much for your attention. [[15.30]]
u2016-03-30-110	Thank you very much. Congresswoman Rózsa Hoffmann is the lead speaker of KDNP. Here you go.
u2016-03-30-111	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, World history teaches us that foreign policy can determine the fate and future of a nation, whether a continent, from time to time, in the short or long term. Today's history has also drawn more attention to foreign policy than in previous decades, in private conversations, in semi-official conversations, foreign policy topics never appear so often and so informed. It was therefore timely for a law to be passed on the regulation of the work of foreign representations. As we have heard in Mr Secretary of State's exposé, this issue has been up to date for about 25 years. Therefore, the Christian Democratic People's Party considers it timely and welcomes T/9784. A proposal for a regulation. I can say, on behalf of the Christian Democratic People's Party, that it creates a set of conditions for the single foreign affairs administration, which is part of the foreign economy, as well as cultural and scientific diplomacy. It not only introduces uniform rules, it brings to the legal level the legal material that has been widened so far - as we have heard, there have been rules, so not everything is new in this way - but also expands the task and toolbox of Hungarian foreign policy. These include the representation, representation and protection of national interests abroad, their role in the representation and development of successful and successful Hungary and the consistent representation of Hungarian positions. It is therefore necessary to strengthen the basic system of foreign representations, the External Action Service and the specific rules for permanent external service, which we have just discussed in T/9784. Bill No. 1 will solve it. We must stress that there is a unique system of relations, a system of life in which foreign service providers live and work, and that the expectations that those working at foreign representation must meet are high. The draft legislation also has an important objective of reducing bureaucracy, while at the same time increasing the effectiveness of control at foreign representations. These objectives, of course, also apply in internal policy, so foreign policy is not independent of what is happening at home. The introductory part of the bill stresses the need to increase the efficiency, flexibility and responsiveness of the foreign representation network in order to further strengthen economic, social and political cooperation between Hungary and other states. This will create a transparent, uniform and stable external service system, which recognises the high importance of Hungarian diplomacy. After all, diplomacy is an area that displays foreign policy in foreign countries and in the world. That is why it is important to bring these rules to the legal level and finally to create them after 25 years. Ladies and gentlemen, I interpret and appreciate the content of the bill before us in these few words. The proposal sets out a range of stakeholders in its scope and defines concepts among the interpretation provisions and provides the legal basis for foreign Hungarian cultural institutions to function as non-individual units of foreign representations in the future. We are well aware that culture is the most effective tool for attracting, repulsing, drawing sympathy and finding partners for further effective cooperation. The bill names the members of the foreign representation and settles the hierarchy between them, taking into account the provisions of the Vienna International Treaty of 1961. It also makes the list of positions leading foreign representations under the leadership of the Minister for Foreign Affairs, and this contract is also the basis for regulating executive replacements. The legislation lays down the working schedule of the delegation, the special rules for work and the employer's rights conferred on it by the head of the outsourcing body in accordance with the laws on public service officials and the Code of Labour and the labour law of the host State. The responsibilities of diplomats are governed by the documents and job descriptions of government officials and by the instructions of the Head of Mission at foreign representations. Workers who are employed by foreign representations are subject to the Hungarian Labour Code if permitted by the case law and law of the host State. Ladies and gentlemen, The bill provides that the detailed rules for the preparation, professional management of the person to be posted and for the relationship between the professional diplomat and the portfolio are regulated by the government regulation. The preparation will be carried out by the Minister responsible for foreign policy and the Minister responsible for EU affairs. The bill also provides for the duration of the training to be at least one month and six months, as well as for the possibility of filling these posts by tender. The proposal also lays down rules for the donation of rank and the use of rank on a fundamental basis, and also sets out minimum conditions for the placement of government officials who can be assigned to permanent external service. It provides that all placements must comply with the conditions laid down by the placement body in respect of educational qualifications, professional examinations and language knowledge. In the required invitation to tender, indicate the exact date of the placement, the exact duration of the assignment, specifying the year of return. The bill also provides for the reasons for the termination and termination of permanent external service on a guarantee basis. The regulation also provides guarantees for those in government service to be reinstated in accordance with their qualifications following the termination of the permanent external service. In the case of case-by-case individual exceptions, the Christian Democratic People's Party's Party's position is that, in a very justified case, a derogation from the general rules may be permitted on the basis of the Minister's personal responsibility, since it is very difficult to foresee in a law any case that would happen to justify such a decision. Obviously, this should not be the typical, but the exceptional, perhaps never applied practice. As regards the five years of posting, KDNP agrees with this, as this is how we can resolve the fact that the population of delegations is independent of government cycles in time, and the 5 years of good practice elsewhere; it is enough to allow the diplomatic body to function effectively and effectively abroad after establishing appropriate contacts. [[15.40]] The bill basically transforms the former benefit system, which aims to better comply with the principle of social justice. The relocated person shall be entitled to a foreign exchange payment during the period of his permanent foreign service and, depending on his or her family situation and other circumstances, shall be entitled to reimbursement of his or her family's living expenses under the law or to a supplement for reimbursement of expenses. The basis for these complex multipliers, which are included in the bill, is laid down in the current annual budget law, rightly, as this way it is possible to monitor the practices of the other EU countries and the current budgetary situation. With this in mind, the proposal also covers substitution arrangements and other working conditions. Finally, I note that, according to the draft, the law will enter into force on 1 August 2017, giving us all sufficient time to prepare for the right legal environment. For this reason, there is more than a year left to prepare the necessary regulations and to prepare the appropriate external bodies for the new regulation. So far, our government has often been accused of rushing legislation and its entry into force, and now this time of entry into force is a sign of patience and discretion, and we can therefore support it. Dear Parliament, In our opinion, the bill we are discussing here will improve the effectiveness of Hungary's diplomatic work, and what is lacking in it, can be replaced by regulation at regulation level. In view of the fact that we haven't had such a law in 25 years, if life proves that the deficits mentioned here by one or two Members are real, this will be a warning to the government at the time to fill these deficits with a regulation or amendment, i.e. an amendment. Therefore, on behalf of the Group of the Christian Democratic People's Party, I can guarantee our support for this proposal. Thank you. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-03-30-112	Thank you very much. Congressman Gábor Staudt, the lead speaker of Jobbik is next. Here.
u2016-03-30-113	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, I would like to say, above all, that, of course, we agree with the objectives. The attempt to appear in a law, which was previously regulated by regulation, and to standardize the fragmented system, in this case it is positive. Obviously, the collection of requirements, entitlements and even targets in one place is certainly good, but I would also like to draw attention to the fact that even a good law in itself is not a guarantee that these objectives can be achieved. So, as such, I would also like to draw the attention of the State Department to the fact that we are not satisfied with setting good goals, and that it is very important to implement them and the quality of their implementation. When we talk about diplomacy, it is a very wide-ranging area that we embrace and include the word "diplomatics" and I must also say that previously the external economic aspect has not been given sufficient weight, and we have mentioned this several times. Not to mention that these diverse activities, as far as diplomacy and foreign diplomacy are concerned, include areas of culture, sport, science and the external economy. As I said, it is the last, the foreign economy, which has recently been strengthened, at least the pursuit of it. Some of us see results, some of us are still waiting for them to happen, but it is important and the word "external economy" has been included in the Ministry's name, and we have supported this, but I also have to say that in many cases we see it as falling on the other side of the horse in certain areas, and often there is insufficient resources or sufficient attention to classical diplomacy. So it would be good to find the golden medium and not just to treat foreign affairs as an external economic issue. And it's weird that I have to say this, because for years we've been expecting the government to have failed for a long time to really bring foreign economic issues into diplomacy. It is also true that so far the legislative environment has been very confusing, not only because of the regulations, but also because of international legal resources, which are now being consolidated here. As I said, this is welcome. What I don't know is how we know, or how we need time to measure how this will go hand in hand with increasing efficiency. Here, for example, we can think of the responsiveness of diplomacy, which is a very important thing, but the principles alone are not going to improve, and transparency is also an area that needs not only to be formulated, but also to be exercised. I'll talk to you about that a little later. With regard to the background institutions of foreign affairs, I have to say that a lot of worrying news has recently been published that a lot of institutions can be dismantled. I know it's mostly not the decision of the State Department, or it's at a level where the State Department can only have an opinion, but the downsizing of these support institutions and backup institutions is causing serious damage. Of course, you have to see if these institutions are not just money-suckers, but I think, or as far as I can see, they are trying to do effective work. Of course, correction should always take place, but it may not be a good direction if the government eliminates some of the tasks either by not handing them over, or if these tasks are only partially transferred to new institutions, or what happens to the population. So I would very much like the news that we are reading in the press to fail, and I would also like to ask Mr Secretary of State to make it clear at government meetings, if you know, so that the institutional system of foreign affairs is not further cut off, and that the existing institutional system is obviously put into operation as effectively as possible. I have already said that we expect the government to maintain the ratio between diplomacy and the external economy, and this is also important because we have heard news that has suggested that, indeed, experts, diplomats in the classic sense may not have been so highly appreciated or retained in the external field, thanks to the fact that economic issues have come to the fore with some amazing dominance. I would ask that, in any case, background experts with accumulated knowledge, who, let's say, have moved only in the field of classical diplomacy and not in the field of the foreign economy, try to keep the State Department. I was talking about transparency, and here our fellow Member Attila Mesterházy said that in many cases it would be better to include Hungarian citizenship in the law rather than resident status. I did not think I should agree with my Socialist fellow Member on such a subject, but this has also happened today. So it would really be better to link certain statuses to Hungarian citizenship, so that we actually expect citizenship to be a very important task and not just resident status. So I would like to ask Mr. Secretary of State to consider this, if possible. With regard to exceptions, where possible and sometimes not: this is always a dangerous area, because if we open a door and allow exceptions, it is difficult to check it, and it is difficult to introduce the criteria in detail into a law, in many cases it is impossible. Obviously, it is not necessarily an objective, since the exception is that the criteria cannot be clearly listed in detail, but it must be possible to verify why and how these exceptions have been granted. The main element of this may be the public. Here at the end of my speech, I have to say, since it is already public and transparent, that as a lawyer, I myself have seen the press news with a bit of a shock, which relates here to the publicity of ambassadors' CVs. [[15.50]] This is this year's news, so we can talk about the February news, when the court ruled on it - the court decided in the first instance differently, but then the referee came to the otherwise correct view that the professional CVs of ambassadors, foreign economic attaché, leaders of trading houses are certainly public information, and here it is important that we are not talking about personal data, but it is indeed essential data, qualifications, qualifications, language skills, often the disclosure of the data on which the appointment is based or defined as a requirement must be guaranteed to the State. The judgment board, as I said, stated in its final judgment that these CVs must indeed be made public. For me - I looked at the press news before I spoke - the shocking thing was that according to Origo's information, this portfolio of foreign affairs still did not do so, despite the fact that it is bound by a final judgment, and despite the fact that the foreign affairs portfolio has turned to the Mansion with a review, this judgment can be enforced. So this should have been posted on the Internet and published in the same way. It was not clear to me why, even on the basis of a final judgment, they should be treated as a secret. And I would like to draw attention to this because it is not something that can be easily understood that basic data, say, in relation to an ambassador, are indeed public data, that a specific database should be created for this purpose, so that it is not necessarily necessary to post CVs that have been edited in different ways on the Internet, but that it should be made public in a database, asking about certain qualifications, qualifications and other circumstances. I must also say that these decisions or these non-disclosures confirm the assumptions in which I must say that I do not want to believe that here, let us say, there are ambassadors who do not meet certain requirements. So let me be so naive that until this is confirmed, I dare not assume this, but obviously, when we see certain data not being disclosed, these assumptions may appear in the press. So I am also asking the present Secretary of State to come up with some sort of regulation for this, either by the Ministry or the Government, even in this proposal, if it has not been included, and if there is still a dispute, or if they are still seeking a review of the Mansion, then, I think, their opinion has not yet changed, but there should be at least one system in which the main data are available to the public, and in such a way, it can be called upon to the public that these qualifications are in place. So I trust that this will be resolved, and then everyone can say that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs will also provide transparency in this respect. I hope that this will happen in the near future. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2016-03-30-114	Thank you very much, Congressman. I would like to inform you that we have reached the end of the speaker's speeches. There's no independent congressman in the room, no one's applied for a two-minute speech. There will now be further speeches from its representatives. Member Richard Hörcsik, representative of Fidesz, may be the first to speak in the line of Members who have asked for a normal word. Here you go, Congressman.
u2016-03-30-115	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, The effective representation of Hungarian national interests and the development of a credible Hungarian image were the strong foreign policy objectives of the civilian government, which took office in 2010, and then renewed in 2014. It's no different today. I believe that this is the primary duty of all members of the diplomatic faculty. If I look back only on the membership of the European Union for the last 12 years, I believe that I can say with a calm heart that clear and consistent stand-up to our national interests has always resulted, no matter how much debate, difficulty or problem, whether it is the 2014-20 multiannual financial framework or currently dealing with the migration crisis. It is particularly memorable for us to see the multi-annual financial framework debate over several years. Where did we start? Minus 20 percent loss of resources, and thank God, now we can all benefit from achieving one of the best financial frameworks. Ladies and gentlemen, I think it is important to point out that the Hungarian delegations in the Member States of the European Union, besides their other tasks, I believe that they are doing their part in shaping EU policy. On the one hand, they convey the Hungarian position to the host country, on the other hand, it is very important to keep the national leadership informed and informed about the country's foreign policy and EU policy. Therefore, special attention is paid to the Member State holding the Presidency of the Council, which is usually accredited by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs for the period of the Presidency. Perhaps, in the early years of our membership of the EU, the Committee on European Affairs itself proposed extending the diplomats of the country which granted the Presidency with a degree. As an example, I would like to highlight the effective cooperation of the Visegrad Four, where we aim to establish and represent a common position on a number of EU and international issues. It is enough to refer to the group of friends of cohesion with the participation of the V4 or to the similarly thinking, like-all formation, which is always organised ad hoc. This can be done with a significant contribution from the foreign representation network. My nearly 25 years of work, most of which I have done and do in the Committee on European Affairs, has also taught me that not only classical diplomacy but also parliamentary diplomacy has an important role to play in achieving these goals. The great advantage of the latter is that, as a result of the status of Members, parliamentary diplomacy can raise questions more freely and openly, whether or not it can formulate positions, which, I believe, is truly effective and successful only if this is supported by diplomats working in that country. I believe that my fellow Members, who work in the field of foreign affairs, could mention a number of examples. Mr President, The bill before us shows that it intends to provide for new and uniform rules on the organisation, operation of the external representation network and the responsibilities and status of diplomats. It could also be said that the earlier wide-ranging rules are finally placed in one place, in a law, which, I believe, is very welcome by everyone. Then I consider it to be of a guarantee that the bill is based on the provisions of the Vienna Treaty on diplomatic relations in relation to the status of diplomats, i.e. I could also say that in a number of respects it is a codification of the practice so far. Ladies and gentlemen, Clearly, on certain issues, as my fellow Member Zsolt Németh mentioned in his exposé, consistency with the law on public service officials must be established. Therefore, the bill, I might say, slightly alters it. In addition, the former rules may apply to workers employed by foreign representations, taking into account the freedom of choice of law. In principle, however, as we have heard from the Secretary of State, the bill does not cover permanent representation to the EU, because it will provide for a separate law on what we expect with respect. The special status of permanent representation justifies the fact that this mission is the department of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Trade, which, however, is managed professionally by the Minister in charge of the Prime Minister's Office. Unlike other foreign representations, but in line with the established system in the majority of Member States, three ambassadors serve on the permanent representation, of whom the so-called Coreper II. Ambassador leading the permanent representation and representing the interests of Hungary at weekly meetings of the Heads of Missions of the 28 Member States. [[16.00]] Ladies and gentlemen, This duality is also an example of the new structure in which the government coordination of EU affairs, including the permanent representation of the EU, has taken over the mandate and competence of the Prime Minister's Office from the beginning of last year, while it remains under the control of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Trade for Classical Representations. Finally, it is important to mention that transparency, efficient operation, unified administration and reduction of bureaucracy are also involved in the field of foreign affairs apparatus and external service. That is why I ask my fellow Members to support the adoption of the bill. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-03-30-116	Thank you very much. Mr Zsolt Legény, representative of the MSZP, is the next speaker. Here you go.
u2016-03-30-117	Thank you for the opportunity, Mr. President. Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, My fellow Mesterházy Attila faction has already said in his speech as a speaker which points we do not agree with this bill. I would like to highlight two of these, which I think is particularly problematic about the bill. One of them is where this bill would give the foreign minister the opportunity not to fill a job in a foreign representation by applying for a job, not by applying for a job, but the foreign minister virtually designates who can be a diplomat or a person performing an external service. Once again, it would put friends in the position of the government, because who is a good friend of the Minister of Foreign Affairs, could be appointed virtually anywhere by the Minister of Foreign Affairs, and thus the best practice and well-established system in which the government decided, by way of tender, who would have been posted to an important or less important place of foreign affairs service, would be practically fired. That's one of the things I think you're worried about. The other is when the bill seeks to distinguish between EU diplomats, EU diplomacy and non-EU diplomacy. Hungarian foreign policy must have priorities, at least we believe that there must be priorities, but I do not think that it should be stated in such a distinction that EU and non-EU diplomacy should be separated in this respect, and therefore we are unlikely to be able to support the bill. Thank you very much, Mr President, for the opportunity.
u2016-03-30-118	Thank you very much, Congressman. Congressman Zsolt Csenger-Zalán, representative of Fidesz, please.
u2016-03-30-119	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I really did not plan to comment, but here are some of the suggestions made by our fellow Member Attila Mesterházy that I should definitely ask for a word. Just because, and I do not want to take away the bread of the Secretary of State, of course, but my fellow Member, Mr Mesterházy, called the formula on the basis of which the salary is calculated opaque and complicated. Now, because of my basic technical qualifications, this may be relatively transparent and workable, because that's what I'm doing. Perhaps the Minister of State of Hungary would have explained the certificate very much if he had said so. Undoubtedly, and it is understandable that diplomats are not yet able to figure out exactly how much their salary will be, because those certain multipliers are still missing, the country's strategic classification is not available, and to say nothing else, there is no such thing as a certain salary base, because every year, the state of the budget and the global economy environment and the environment where our diplomats have to stand are that which determines this, and, by definition, the list of certain strategically highlighted countries and the priority countries and this multiplier, which goes up from C to A1, this is also obvious that it changes from time to time, as Hungary's foreign policy strategy changes, which is very right to change, because it has to be adapted to the situation. But it also changes in a completely understandable way with the security classification of each country. A few years ago, a decade ago, Iraq or Syria, where appropriate, were safe countries, especially Syria, even a viable country, and today it is quite clear that these countries pose very serious security risks, risks to all those who provide diplomatic services there, where appropriate, and, as appropriate, must appear in the salary. Taxation was also a question. To the best of my knowledge, these incomes will be taxed on a flat-rate basis, according to the Hungarian general tax rate, as it has been before, only two separate incomes, a currency balance and a HUF balance, and they had to be combined with complicated calculations and then split up. Now it is quite clear that taxation is carried out according to the Hungarian general rules. More serious question, and this also came up with Gábor Staudt, Hungarian citizenship, why Hungarian citizenship is not required in this law. This law is an lex specialist of Ktt., so it is specifically a special law of Ktt., Ktt. It regulates precisely that only Hungarian citizens can be involved. This law, which is still required, is a certain resident status, and therefore it is important, for example, that we do not impose Hungarian citizenship in this law, because indeed, and this is another point of discussion, that the minister may grant an exemption or make an exception in certain cases. In the case of citizenship, you can't do this because it is subject to another law, but for example, a Hungarian from across the border who doesn't have a permanent address here in Hungary, so if not resident in Hungary, there may be a diplomatic situation or a circumstance that makes him perfectly capable of representing Hungarian interests, but here too, in principle, the lucky thing is that Hungarian residents are those who represent Hungarian society, the Hungarian government, us, all of us abroad. In the case of exceptions, let us also mention that there may be situations in which I do not know if there is a situation in the language skills or any other conditions of application that is not necessarily because, buddy - I know that the opposition likes to bring this out, that all mates are sent here and there - I think it is very important for us to have qualified and good diplomats, but there is a situation where someone can represent Hungarian interests in a special environment by means of other qualities that may be prescribed for him to say, for example, to pass the language exam in one or two years. The disclosure of the data, which has come up, is how public the various data of our delegates are. I would like to think about how it is worth posting it on the Internet, because not only do we read it, it is not only read by the representatives, it is not only read by the Hungarian people, but also by the services that may be of counterintelligence. But one thing I can tell you is that the Committee on Foreign Affairs listens to every ambassador, for example, and you know exactly who has what degree, and where, at least for the members of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, where each party is represented, this is fully known. As I said at the beginning, I do not wish to take away the bread of the Secretary of State, so that is all I wanted to add. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] [[16.10]]
u2016-03-30-120	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I will ask if anyone else wishes to take the opportunity to speak. [[There's no candidate.]] I'm gonna say no. As no one has applied for a speech, the general debate is closed. I'll ask the Secretary of State if he wants to react. [[On the sign of Hungarian Levente:]] Here you go. The floor is for the Secretary of State of Hungary Levente.
u2016-03-30-121	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, Effectiveness, predictability, justice and flexibility are the principles on which we have established the current regulation and which can serve as a stable organisational and operational basis for diplomacy that we implement every day on the basis of our economic interest and other foreign policy considerations. These two aspects cannot go without each other, and neither can function well without the other standing on stable legs, so the day-to-day operational activity cannot be carried out with great efficiency without the organizational and operational order being given. Once again, we will settle a 25-year-old debt with this bill. As regards the proposals made by Congressman Németh, thank you very much for your constructive comments. With regard to asset management, the possibility of including a framework provision will, of course, be examined; otherwise, we would like to resolve this issue in a separate presentation, which has also been unsolved for a long time. As far as the diplomatic career is concerned, I would like this current bill to be seen as the basis for an external diplomat career. Of course, detail regulation should be further refined in the future, but I think that this bill will also fulfil this condition as a starting point. With regard to opposition contributions: Honourable House, I understand that the opposition sees enemies everywhere, or at least ghosts. However, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that, instead, it would probably be more forward-looking and more effective if different laws were read and, for example, it would show that the merits of their comments on the subject are very incomplete or that they lack any basis. As you mentioned, the criterion of nationality is regulated in black and white in a law already in force. Of course, a non-Hungarian citizen is not a natural person, he cannot be an official Hungarian representative, he cannot be a diplomat, he cannot be an ambassador. In this proposal, in line with Kttv., we only indicated the so-called additional rules; not only did we expand, but we narrowed down the criteria needed to undertake the embassy. In other words, it is not enough to be a Hungarian citizen, but to live in Hungary, and the rest. With regard to Mr Mesterházy's further comment: on the complexity of remuneration, I would like to point out to you, Mr President, that we are studying the current even more opaque system, which will show that there is significant progress towards simplification, although I recognise that the system is still complex. However, the fact that, instead of the previous five-six, half-dozen items, we are currently going to receive income from a complex formula supplemented by several factors that did not exist, is a major step forward. In other words, they do not receive separate housing allowances, child allowances, foreign exchange allowances, domestic payments, payment supplements, but receive a package, a framework that they can assign at will, and if someone has the preference to live in a large apartment, but do not have a car, then they can do so if someone else does, then they will also have the opportunity to do so. I think that our diplomats can be seen as adult, responsible financial management and farming people, and everyone will be able to cope with this task. And those who cannot cope with this are not fit for a Hungarian diplomat; this may be stated categorically. I would also refer the criticism of the rules of selection to the world of spirit vision. I would like to draw attention to the fact that this is the way the system works at the moment and that all foreign ministers have been actively involved in this in the last 25 years. We need to have principles of organisation, a principle that makes life predictable, but at the same time we need to give ourselves the leeway, the free hand that, if there is a chance that a tender result contrary to the public interest or which is not fully in the public interest will be obtained, no matter how popular the notice is, then the Minister of Foreign Affairs should have the opportunity to say that the proposal is not suitable for filling the position, so, where appropriate, someone will be transferred from another station to the post if that person happens to be the most suitable person to fill that position. Please accept that this free space, which is, by the way, minimal and more narrowed down than at present, is technically justified and that, according to current practice, 90 percent of our staff policy is subject to objective evaluation. Dear House, I would like to thank you once again for your comments. These comments can, of course, be further discussed in the detailed debate. We will examine which of the insights that can be incorporated into the bill. And once again, I would like to draw attention to the fact that we are organising a decade-long guarantee with this bill. We have developed this new regulation, according to the best of our knowledge, on the basis of principles that are consistent with our modern, effective, goal-oriented diplomacy, and, of course, we welcome with openness any constructive insights and comments at the further stages of the process. Thank you for your support, Mr President. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-03-30-122	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, The amendment proposals can be submitted by 4 p.m. on Friday. Dear Parliament, The general debate between the Government of Hungary and the Government of the People's Republic of China on the draft law on the publication of the Convention on the development, implementation and financing of the Hungarian phase of the reconstruction of the Budapest-Belgrád railway line until closure follows. The government referral is T/9787. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, I give the floor to Mr.László Tasó, State Secretary of the Ministry of National Development. Here you go.
u2016-03-30-123	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear Listener, The bill provides for the announcement of the agreement on the development, implementation and financing of the Hungarian phase of the Budapest-Belgrád railway reconstruction project, signed in Beijing on 24 November. Within the framework of the investment, the Contracting Parties will develop line 150 between the Budapest-Ferencváros-Kelebia border, which will fully comply with EU technical specifications. A new two-track, electrified track with a 22.5 ton axle load, with a European standard-compliant safety system, will be established at an operating speed of 160 km/h on the railway line. On the basis of the relevant EU directive, we do not have a prior obligation to give an opinion, but we definitely had to inform the European Commission. Therefore, the Convention and all its annexes were sent to the European Commission in February together with the procurement rules and each other. The modernisation of the rail link between Budapest and Belgrade is in the interest not only of Hungary, but also of Central Europe and the Western Balkans. It also fits into the idea of a Chinese silk road, as that project will be the flagship of a road, an economic zone. The Hungarian project, when completed, will provide an opportunity for Chinese goods to continue through the Belgrade-Budapest section through the railway from the port of Pireus, Greece, and obviously bring the benefits to Hungary. The implementation of the project significantly shortens the travel time between Budapest-Belgrád, and the current 8-hour travel period is expected to decrease to 3 1/2 hours with this investment. Thus, the connection between the two cities will be a real alternative to road and air transport. The development of the Hungarian phase can result in railway access to the affected areas and the improvement of the quality of personnel traffic. We respectfully ask the National Assembly to support T/9787. and support the publication of the Convention. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] [[16.20]]
u2016-03-30-124	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, Here are the keynote speeches. First up, Congresswoman Mónika Bartos, lead speaker of Fidesz. Here you go.
u2016-03-30-125	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Mr. Secretary. Fellow Members! China is seeking to strengthen its trade relations with Europe by launching a 'zone', a road strategy. In the spirit of the strategy, the Intergovernmental Treaty on the renewal of the Budapest-Belgrád railway line was signed in November 2015. The contract was signed by Minister of Foreign Affairs and Trade Péter Szijjártó and Chairman of the Chinese National Development and Reform Committee. The agreement was referred to as the first concrete success of cooperation between China and Central and Eastern Europe by the Foreign Minister for Foreign Affairs and Trade. According to the contract, the entire nearly 166 km long line will be renovated, and even a second pair of rails will be built. The investment is expected to cost HUF 472 billion, which is financed by 85 percent of Chinese loans. As a result of the renovation, the speed of the passenger trains reaches 160 km/h and allows freight trains with a length of 740 m to run on the track. With this investment, Hungary takes advantage of its geographical location, with the realisation of Chinese goods arriving in Greek ports through us, the fastest route to Western Europe. As a member of the Committee on Sustainable Development, I must mention that freight transport by rail is more favourable in terms of sustainability than the road solution, so that our country will also have a situational advantage in this respect. The aim is to ensure that as many Hungarian companies as possible participate in the project. This can also be an incentive for our partners, because, as Minister Szijjártó said, the Hungarian corporate share and the interest on loans are closely linked, because the higher the Hungarian corporate participation, the higher the interest rates we can generate, and the same is true vice versa, i.e. the lower interest rates that the investment will bear. Serbian Prime Minister Aleksandar Vucsics emphasized that the connection between the Serbian and Hungarian peoples, the two countries, Serbia and Western Europe, and Hungary and South and Eastern Europe will be improved with the railway renovation. The project itself is unique because an EU country and a non-EU member participate together. The reconstruction of the Serbian section of the Belgrade-Budapest railway line is expected to begin in 2016. After the completion of the upgrading, the eight-hour journey between the two capitals will be reduced to two and a half to three hours. The Belgrade-Novi Sad route currently takes about two hours, after the planned completion in 2018, the journey time will be reduced to less than one hour. Ladies and gentlemen, The aim of the bill is to publish by law the agreement between the Government of Hungary and the Government of the People's Republic of China on the development, implementation and financing of the Hungarian phase of the reconstruction of the Budapest-Belgrád railway line. I would ask my fellow Members to support this proposal. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-03-30-126	Thank you very much. Congressman István Józsa, head speaker of the MSZP is coming.
u2016-03-30-127	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, We are faced with a proposal for parliamentary approval of an interstate contract for a fundamentally far-reaching and eligible purpose, but I am disappointed that after such a long period of time we see such a limited international treaty. When, therefore, the Parliament is discussing an investment of nearly HUF 500 billion, and virtually a compensation damage of World War I, if you would like it to be, the settlement of Trianon damage - because then we were obliged to eliminate the second pair of rails, and this direction was not the main axis of development in the chained dog era, too - so this railway is far ripe to be renovated and expanded. It is also possible to support what my fellow Member, Mónika Bartos, has outlined as a Chinese strategy that goods coming from Thessaloniki or even from the south, from Pireus, Chinese goods arriving on board, or any goods coming from the East, should reach Central Europe on a rail axis. In terms of sustainable development, from an environmental point of view, it is much more favourable than transport with trucks, unfortunately, life proves that there are thousands of trucks flowing from ports, and that rail cars are sometimes filled if they add discounts to the transport. What we must therefore see is that rail transport, rail passenger transport and rail transport can be chosen or selected from market players only if there are serious advantages. I didn't say this line of thought because, if it should discourage us from developing the railway, it is just an existing market trend, and I want to go there, which is missing from this proposal, because it is difficult to understand economically in the current categories when this investment will be repaid. According to the usual terms of return calculation, this is a never-reimbursing investment, because it will be repaid somewhere in the quality of the environment, it will pay off sometime, or it will have benefits - I would rather say that it has a benefit - in the recovery of trade flows, but on the one hand, they are not projected, not even sketchy, so there is no such idea, or we cannot see anything about the further timetable for the construction of the railway track, therefore it cannot be quantified, and thus the investment of this investment cannot be managed by the recovery calculations used otherwise in the economy. As a strategic investment, yes, but what lies ahead of us - I do not like it - is rather sketchy, and this agreement shows almost nothing concrete about the project. I am very pleased that my fellow Member has presented this 472 billion to us here, because this was only read in the press, otherwise I do not believe that any government document would formally contain this which Members could consider. Therefore, the magnitude of this and the interest rates that the Chinese party provides for this loan of 85 per cent after that, we say that the submission or Article 7 of the Intergovernmental Agreement gives a certain point of reference, which bears the title of the "Preparation and Implementation of the Project" clause, paragraph 3 of this paragraph states as follows, i.e. under what interest conditions the Chinese party provides the loan, so that the Chinese party states in Article 7 (3): "The Chinese party ensures that the terms of the loan contract will be beneficial to the Hungarian party and that the net economic return on the project will be positive overall. So they will be positive and beneficial. And it goes on to say, "The schedule and the conditions will be negotiated and fixed after the conclusion of the main contractor's contract. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. [[16.30]] So this is a point of uncertainty, because we should not be mistaken, 100 percent of this will be somewhere in the Hungarian budget, 15 percent immediately, and 85 percent in a future that is not outlined here, with such a very beautiful indicator, but without reference points, that the Hungarian party will benefit from these, and the net economic return of the project, which I explained, which is virtually non-quantifiable anywhere, and in fact, in the current state of science, can only be rather outlined, so it is difficult to express in the end in years that this will have an overall positive impact on the borrowing to be fixed. So, dear government side, I believe that bringing such a treaty, such an intergovernmental treaty, to the Hungarian Parliament is not a responsible attitude for undertaking on this scale. Not just for us opposition, but for you, for pro-government. So how are you going to vote in favour of such a 500 billion item if you don't even know what it is, how much the project costs, how much the loan costs, what will your exit be, what conditions will it have to be repaid? So, with the objective and the development of this railway line being an eligible thing, and I can promise everyone that the MSZP will support it, I think this proposal needs significant additions to the specifics, at least at the level of a government commitment, so that its eligibility can be considered at all. Thank you, Mr. President.
u2016-03-30-128	Thank you very much, Congressman. Congressman Ander Balázs, the lead speaker of Jobbik. Here.
u2016-03-30-129	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Secretary of State was as fast as the French TGV or the Japanese Sinkansen super express. I can't promise to deal with this so quickly, so I apologize to everyone in advance. In the form of the bill before us, an infrastructure project has been on the agenda and on the table, which has actually been going on for two and a half years, and in fact the largest of the Hungarian rail development and rail investments that have occurred in recent decades. By the way, this almost $3 billion investment was first discussed between the parties at the Eastern-Central Europe-China Summit in Bucharest in autumn 2013. The project is unique, as has already been said here, in the fact that China, an EU Member State, our country and a non-EU country are involved. But let's see the economic facts behind the treaty. In its long-term concept of a zone, a road, linking China to Europe in a physical and economic sense, China has a key role to play in Central Europe and in Hungary. There's nothing to be surprised about. Since World War II, the Far East has played an increasingly important role in Hungarian external economic relations. There are two main reasons for this: globalisation and the dynamic development of the region. Of the Far Eastern countries, China, with 1.4 billion inhabitants, is clearly emerging, one of the most dynamically developing and also the second largest national economies in the world today. In view of the current development perspective, it is only a matter of time before the United States. In the early 1990s, China gradually became the main driver of global economic growth, while, in terms of its political structure, the rules of capitalism and all its brutal downsides are becoming increasingly widespread in the economy of the Communist country. China, by the way, is now producing 15% of global GDP. In parallel with dynamic economic growth, the foreign trade balance of the Asian country and thus its current account are marked by a significant surplus. On an annual basis, we can talk about some $260 billion in activity today. However, it is not surprising that, unfortunately, there is a significant import surplus of Hungarian-Chinese goods. As with most Asian relations, the balance of the Hungarian-China product trade is unfortunately characterised by a deficit. However, it has to be seen as a positive phenomenon that the gradually rising deficit by 2010, when it was close to HUF 1000 billion, has since decreased to around HUF 800 billion, which is still huge. Despite the fact that the value of Hungarian exports has now become thirty-six times the value of the year 2000, it is sad that the value of exports to China is still significantly below the import value. On an annual level, we currently sell around HUF 400 billion of goods to the Asian country, which is about 1.8 percent of the total Hungarian exports. So you can clearly see how important commercial relations with China are, but this project, which will give Hungary some HUF 500 billion in shares, and the bill, which includes the publication of the Investment Agreement, is nothing more than a blank cheque, which could cost Hungarian taxpayers a lot more. The otherwise rational idea is that the goods shipped by China to the port in Pyreus and destined for Western Europe will be able to be transported as quickly as possible through Serbia and Hungary, so that the corridor connecting the ports in Greece with Western Europe should go through our countries. In other words, I would lead an important route to world trade in Hungary and Serbia. This concept corresponds well to the fact that the name of Hungary in Chinese is said to be none other than the Oriental spearhead. So if we are to comply with this name and this economic role, then the railway line between Budapest and Belgrade must be suitable for this. It is also historic that, due to the high volume of heavy freight transport and by-line traffic, this 150 line in question was electrified in 1910 and the second track was also laid. The flowering period here also lasted until World War I, and Trianon put an end to it, and the second track had to be dismantled. Otherwise, how much fairer it would be if, let us say, we were not talking about Chinese credit, but, for example, they financed such an investment from French reparation - now closed by parentheses. For the current construction of the two-track electrified railway line, 350 kilometers of railway sections need to be renovated, of which 166 kilometers pass through Hungary and 184 across Serbia. On the rail track with a maximum speed of 160 km per hour, the train travel time may be reduced by more than half, but it is questionable whether the figures provided by the Chinese Government and the Chinese National Development and Reform Committee show the growth dynamics of Chinese freight traffic can be safely calculated and at all calculated whether Hungary will profit from transit in the long term. It is amazing that there are only three and a half lines in the general justification of the bill, so they think it is possible. For this reason, I would like to point out that, on the part of Jobbik, we will be able to sign this vague draft, so that we will only be able to vote in this form if we receive meaningful answers to our questions. Kóka's former sideline counterintelligence adjutant, the great opponent of the project, talks about a 500 billion-dollar project for phantom trains. We will not use such frazeology, but we will still have tough questions and helpful comments. If one of the parliamentary parties cannot be accused of anti-railway, it is Jobbik. On numerous occasions, we have stood up for our opinion in every possible forum that the issue of railway development is one of the primary issues of the Hungarian economy and the Hungarian countryside. However, in order to be able to accept the development from a loan of the same size as a subway 4 with responsibility, a well-founded impact assessment would be required. In accordance with the general practice of the Fidesz Government, this time it is not available or, if any, it could not be known by the Members. What was supposed to be developed in this impact assessment? Let's take it one step at a time. What is the increase in the volume of goods transport planned by the Chinese party, even guaranteed by the contract, and the period of return of the investment in the repayment of the loan? From this volume, what is the annual amount of the Hungarian State's toll income generated, and how does this affect the return on the investment? Let us not forget that we are talking about an 85 percent Chinese loan and investment contribution, which means business primarily to them, not to us, but economic business to be done by independent parties on the basis of mutual benefits. The reconstruction of this railway line is primarily of Chinese and European economic interest, and in this form it is not certain that it is Hungarian, as we have just learned. Thus, an estimate of return is essential for economic rationality. [[16.40]] If the expected Chinese freight surplus were to be missed, the transit route would be moved elsewhere, Hungary would suffer a huge loss, because we would not be able to make economic use of this railway line only in domestic or Serbian-Hungarian bilateral terms. Moreover, if we want Hungarian entrepreneurs to have a higher share of the investment, the terms of the loan will also be tightened. It should also be remembered that the 150 line is only a small section, exactly one tenth of the European section concerned. The sections beyond Budapest are fine, but the Serbian-Macedonian section extending south from Belgrade to Gyevgyeli, like the Budapest-Belgrád section, needs complete reconstruction. Here again, the lack of impact assessment hurts. What is the ability of the Serbian and Macedonian railway lines not being renovated now? Without it, it's actually pointless to talk about it. Is it consistent or compatible with the Budapest-Belgrád section until the investment is completed? Obviously, it is possible that a track there is sufficient, as there is not much traffic in that area, as we know that electrification is missing between Gyevgyelija and Thessaloniki in the Greek section. For example, do we know when the Greek party is planning to do this? The clear opponents of the project also turn the current low passenger numbers into weapons against the investment, as we can only speak of five thousand paying passengers per day, of whom only 366 pass over on a large average. Kelebia has the current Hungarian-Serbian border. Nevertheless, we agree in principle with the construction of the railway line for a hundred miles per hour. Between Budapest-Szabadka-Nyvidék-Belgrád, it is necessary for passenger transport, and even domestic, domestic and European transit traffic to be competitive with the road would require this. The fact that total passenger traffic is currently modest between Hungary and Serbia is due to Greek economic conditions and mass migration, as is the fact that Serbia is still waiting in the hallway of the Union. If we want a better world in the Balkans, then it is obvious that we must build. This should also be done for Hungarians in Vojvodina, but for example, we can say that Baja would be one hour closer to Budapest in Hungary, and it would make sense to take trains to Kiskőrös again from Kalocsa. But in addition to social interest, we also need economic rationality. I mentioned that before Trianon there was a second track from Budapest to Kiskunlacháza and between Kelebia-Szabadka, which was then picked up by the dismembering powers. At the same time, without an impact assessment, underlying calculations and a Chinese declaration of intent to prove the increase in freight transport, it is not certain whether this should be the case on the whole line, or whether it would be enough to build a second track on the suburban section of Budapest, up to Kunszentmiklós-Tassig. If there is indeed trade in goods, because the Balkan route is suitable for this, and China provides not only a loan but also a guarantee that it will deliver here, Hungary has nothing to do but to make passenger transport competitive on this important north-south route, which, although rarely inhabited in the country, can be a bilateral and trans-European route, which is currently subject to domestic long-distance traffic, but which is of international importance. My questions, Mr Secretary of State: will there be an integrated, rhythmic timetable for all affected settlements in suburban traffic in relation to Kunszentmiklós-Tass-Budapest? Will intermodal stations be built? Will there be any bus lines? The suburban trains of the 150 line arrive at the Keleti Railway Station instead of the counterproductive, outward-turning Kőbánya-Kispest, which causes significant additional travel time? Will the railway lines Kiskőrös-Kalocsa, Kunszentmiklós-Tass-Dunapataj and the Philippines-Kecskemét be reopened, as you promised in 2010, but have not yet been fulfilled? Clearly, the point would be to integrate, so consciously design the infrastructure so that the connections can be designed, because then there will be a transfer passenger and the trains will be full. We would like to make it clear on a project where we can talk about the total cost of HUF 500 billion, and we want to see clearly and guarantee that the government can ensure that the current trade balance, which is detrimental to us, will not go any further. It would be foolish to weaken our own trade balance further, helping foreign goods to cover our country even more, making our light and manufacturing industry more cheesy, and, moreover, the government intends to finance this with a new loan placed around the neck of Hungarian families. Where are the plans to ensure that our huge external trade deficit is balanced, which guarantee that Hungarian taxpayers do not finance China's economic expansion in our region? Where are the guarantees that ensure that the construction does not become a gold mine of extra profit for domestic or foreign oligarchs, rather than a gold mine for government vassals from gas mechanics to railway builders? Again, I can only repeat myself: I would like to be the lance mountain of the East, but not the mark of the East, especially the R-Kord Kft of Mészáros, which is 40 percent more expensive than planned. milk cow. There is one end of a hundred words: in our opinion, there is no room for institutional waste, fair economic and fundamental calculations, guarantee of the business partner, impact assessment, domestic transport integration and the provision of budget for additional improvements. If all this is done, if Mr Secretary of State can answer these questions in substance, then I can say that we are happy to support this investment. As long as we do not get clear and firm answers to these questions, we have very, very strong concerns about the whole project. Thank you for your attention. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2016-03-30-130	Thank you very much. Congresswoman Erzsébet Schmuck, lead speaker of the LMP. Here you go.
u2016-03-30-131	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, We see that this Budapest-Belgrád railway project can only really be judged in the light of the government's eastern opening policy. It has now become clear that the Orbán government's so-called Eastern opening strategy is bleeding from several wounds and has practically failed, even though the government has put its entire foreign policy into the service of Eastern foreign trade, not caring for the disruption and isolation of our Western political relations. The result of this policy speaks for itself. While our exports to the countries of eastern opening increased by only 7 percent between 2010 and 2014, in another direction by 19 percent. In addition, exports from the competing countries of Central and Eastern Europe increased by 40% in this region. Hungarian exports even decreased to Russia, and to the Middle East they fell by 21 percent. In recent years, many of the decorated countries have been in political and economic distress. Azerbaijan turned to the IMF and the World Bank for help two months ago, and the country is practically bankrupt. Kazakhstan and Russia have fallen into recession, Turkey is on the verge of civil war, and even China has accumulated debt problems that can shake the world economy. We must pay attention to this when assessing Chinese relations and the situation of the Chinese economy. However, the Hungarian government is pushing for contact with these crisis regions and expects them to recover. Because of this obsession, it is able to conclude agreements such as the Budapest-Belgrád railway line, which will bring almost no profit to our country, taxpayers will pay the bill as public debt increases. We know that Beijing desperately needs a larger reference work within the EU and that the new Silk Road project could enter Europe on this Balkan route. It can be stated that the project in its present form clearly serves Chinese geostrategic interests. The project requires at least HUF 472 billion, 85 percent of which will be Chinese credit and 15 percent Hungarian self-interest. As my fellow Member Józsa explained, the Hungarian government and the Hungarian budget will actually finance the whole thing, i.e. the Hungarian taxpayers, only in a slippery manner. Therefore, the invoice is not paid by the Chinese party, it merely grants a loan. The loan will have a 20-year maturity, with a grace period of 5 years, and I would like to stress it with market interest. Meanwhile, there is European Union money for this type of investment, a trans-European network, and with better interest rates than Chinese, so we are not talking about economic rationality, and it can also be added that some of the money received from the European Union for such purposes can be obtained in the form of grants. [[16.50]] In the case of the Budapest-Belgrád railway line, we are talking about a length of 160 km in Hungary, so between Budapest and Kelebia, so this is a specific cost of 2.84 billion per kilometer, which is a horriable amount, even higher than the overpriced Sajol-Püspökladány line. In parallel with this project, which is also an interesting moment, the government also intends to provide a credit line for the development of the railway line leading to the port of Koper in Slovenia in the order of 100 billion euros, namely 370 million euros. This is amazing, too, and for the record, especially amazing, because the Pyreusian port and the Copernican port are competing with each other. We should decide which route the government would expect now: the Chinese Pyreus port or the other port in Koper, which we know is an enormous amount of money invested in the development of it in recent years. It is important to point out that the Chinese friends of the government did not guarantee the delivery volume. We understand that this was discussed in the negotiations, but later the Chinese refused to do so. Thus, it can be said that the line would not be used in passenger transport or freight traffic. Of course, we should not expect Beijing to be active in this area, but the Hungarian government should develop a strategy for this, but it does not. Thus, it is calculated that the economic return on the project - and here I stress: according to very serious railway professionals - is 2,400 years. Although public procurement is issued for the execution of the contract, we have made sure that the Chinese can build it. The Chinese would also very much like their locomotives and their cars to be able to ride on it. Thus, the Hungarian economy is nothing but useless. However, Kára may be, the line goes through national parks, expropriations are needed, and taxpayers will have a debt of 400 billion, at least in the longer term, the rest now, at the beginning. The most shocking thing in the whole project is that the contract for 2014 was concluded without any prior professional preparation or economic calculation. A preliminary feasibility study of the Budapest-Belgrád railway line was carried out in 2015 after that. This was requested by the LMP, but not surprisingly, but we did not receive the feasibility study. So we can't see a lot of details; obviously it contains a lot of interesting elements, by the way. The LMP's view is that out of this amount, half of the Hungarian rail network could be renovated and invested in other sustainable areas, such as renewable energy or sustainable urban transport, which are really useful in the national economy and could involve domestic businesses in the investment. Thank you very much.
u2016-03-30-132	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, I would like to inform you that we have reached the end of the speaker's speeches. No independent Member is in the room, no one has applied for two minutes, so I give the floor to the first Member to speak, who has been notified. Congresswoman Mátrai, please.
u2016-03-30-133	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Dear Parliament, The T/9787. The aim of the bill is to announce the agreement between the Government of Hungary and the Government of the People's Republic of China on the development, implementation and financing of the Hungarian phase of the reconstruction project of the Budapest-Belgrád railway line. The proposal before us is the next stage of a long-term economic development and networking decision that is extremely useful for both Hungary and the People's Republic of China. Taking into account the declarations of intent already signed between the parties, in accordance with the law of the European Union and the obligations resulting therefrom, the proposal expresses the development of economic cooperation based on mutual benefit. This bill is useful for Hungary - contrary to what has been said here - in the area of expanding trade relations and broadening and deepening Central European relations, and it is useful for the People's Republic of China to expand its trade relations with the European Union, Hungary and the entire European region. Cooperation between Central Europe and China is not only a central European and Chinese interest, but also a genuine European interest, since it is in the interests of the European Union as a whole that the different regions and countries of the European Union can cooperate successfully with China. This investment is carried out in Central European and Chinese financing and technology cooperation, so by making Serbia and Hungary a part of this investment, we will ensure that one of the important routes of world trade takes place in Hungary and Serbia. The project is also unique from the point of view of a country outside Europe: China, an EU country: Hungary and an EU candidate: Serbia participate together in the implementation of this project. The idea of a new Silk Road or a Silk Road with historical prospects reminds us that China's relationship with Europe has thousands of years of tradition, and this is being rethinked and implemented by land and sea. Hungary and China have had excellent political relations for a long time, characterised by mutual trust and effective political dialogue based on mutual trust. The basis for our bilateral relations is the joint declaration, which was registered in 2004 by the governments of the two countries and confirmed in 2014 by Prime Minister Viktor Orbán during his visit to China, which defines Hungarian-China relations as a partnership of friendly cooperation. Two years ago, the aspects of the Jin-ping Xsi initiative in the Central and Eastern European region are fortunately in line with the foreign policy and external economic objectives set out in the Eastern Opening Strategy of the Hungarian Government. The modernisation of the Budapest-Belgrád railway line is the flagship project of China, Central and Eastern Europe cooperation. The dominant Chinese companies chose Hungary to set up their regional centre. The Government of Hungary joined a strategic cooperation partnership with Huawei in 2013, with Wanhua in 2014. The Bank of China established a regional centre in Hungary in 2014. On this basis, we can clearly say that Hungary is capable of being the centre of growth of Central Europe. According to our expectations, the success of Chinese companies established in our country will encourage additional Chinese companies to invest in Hungary, setting an example for others to choose the location in Hungary. Hungarian Chinese relations have developed unbroken in recent years. The People's Republic of China is Hungary's tenth most important trading partner. In trade relations, our exports of food stand out, which in 2015 alone amounted to nearly $40 million. The total value of Chinese investments in Hungary exceeds $3.5 billion, and we believe that Hungary is the ideal business environment for building a European bridge station for Chinese companies. In particular, it is worth mentioning that the civil relations of the two countries have also developed significantly in recent years. Thanks to the launch of the direct flight from Beijing-Budapest Air China, almost 150,000 Chinese tourists visited Hungary in 2015 alone, which represents an increase of nearly 50 percent in terms of the previous year. Dear Parliament, The cooperation will cover the modernisation of the Budapest-Belgrád railway line, which will, of course, be implemented in a manner compatible with European technical regulations, thus being able to connect to the European rail network, facilitate freight transport in Europe, and also help to develop European rail passenger traffic. [[17.00]] Therefore, the renovation of the railway line significantly increases the role of Hungary in freight transport in Europe, making Hungary a major logistics centre in the region. Once the investment has been completed, the Hungarian section of the railway track and its other facilities will become the exclusive property of the Hungarian State, which can be read from the convention. I would particularly like to point out that the investment also has the support of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, so that regional cooperation is established that connects the participating European countries, economic areas and human relations on the basis of real interests. Dear Parliament, China is today one of the leading players in the world economy, which has undergone an incredible technological change and economic and social development in recent decades, where, even in terms of rail development, a high-speed rail network competing with modern European rail transport has been created. As President of the Hungarian-Chinese Friendly Section of the Interparlamentary Union, I consider it important that, in order to discuss the bill, I should highlight the objectives and the potential of the bill and perhaps make the doubters more reasonable. I have a personal and continuous relationship with ambassadors of the People's Republic of China accredited to Budapest, and I often receive high-level Chinese government and parliamentary delegations. Because of this, I can say that I am personally convinced about the importance of developing Hungarian-Chinese relations. I would ask my fellow Members, once again, on the basis of what has been said above, to consider what has been said here as a criticism and to support this proposal, because I wholeheartedly recommend it to the attention of all Members. Thank you for the opportunity.
u2016-03-30-134	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, I will ask if anyone else wishes to take the opportunity to speak. [[There's no candidate.]] I'm gonna say no. As a further speaker... [[On the mark of Balázs Ander.]] I understand, Congressman, that you pushed the button, but later than I said, no more speakers. That's the decision. As no one who has applied for a speech has further applied, it has subsequently come forward and the general debate is closed. I will ask the rapporteur if he wishes to respond to what was said in the debate. [[For signal:]] Mr. Secretary of State of Tasó.
u2016-03-30-135	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, In that, I felt that we all agree, who said that the Chinese goods dumping that is coming from Asia, and the silk road concept is an opportunity in which Hungary should participate. I also thought that Congressman Józsa, Mr Ander, before him, Mónika Bartos, Erzsébet Schmuck, may and naturally also agreed. It seems to me that we may have the same view. I'd like to respond to what else we've put in, put in. If we agree, they agree that Hungary should not be left out, and in any event have a role to play in the arrival of Chinese goods in Europe, but we should not add every idea of transport policy to it and put all other demands on a supporter's side. I understand that it is good to say, it is good to say everything else on the agenda that is important to political parties in the world of transport policy, but it may not be worth linking together, because then the basic goal in which we agree will become vague, and then it will not be the same goal. In the speech by the lead speaker of Fidesz, it was clear why it is important for Hungary. One sentence is that the railway tracks we are building must indeed be capable of 740 meters of trains, but some of them by 2030. Thus, by 2030, the 2013 European Council Regulation No 39 obliges us, as EU Member States, to meet the requirement that all of our railway lines be able to receive 740 metres of trains, with a track speed of at least 100 kilometres. Although fortunately this will know more, it will be a track with geometry capable of speeds of 200 km/h and will only be used at speeds of 160 km/h. And naturally have the insurance equipment that Europe requires. What is important is that, in the opinion of Congressman Józsa, this was a far-reaching idea. I was glad to hear you call it that, although this is something worth mentioning. And I would also like to say to Congressman Ander that we cannot resolve Trianon's painful problems in this investment right now. It is a cure for us naturally, because it gives us the opportunity to make transport easier, and yet the fragmented areas can start with stronger economic growth. However, they cannot be arranged. The sins of the past have long shadows, which I have recently heard from a wise man. Indeed, we cannot arrange everything for such an investment. Do you need the refurbishment on line 150? They all say he needs it, of course. There is also a contradiction in whether Hungary would be able to start renovations that we are already hearing from one side that they are not capable of self-preservation, according to economic calculations, perhaps based on the opinion of the opposition, are not capable of being built, yet their construction is important. So there are railway sections to which we definitely need to spend. We are spending quite a bit, 1500 billion forints in the coming years. Let us not forget that 85 percent of this amount can only be European Union funds, 15 percent will be Hungarian resources, and this will also be paid thanks to Hungarian taxpayers. Besides, it is also important to know that the Budapest-Ferencváros-Kelebia border line is not part of the TEN-T network in itself, so it is a trans-European part of the network, because of which we cannot and cannot require European Union funds. So when it comes to the opinion, it is said that they are saying why we are not trying to obtain funds, then we must see that we cannot, because we cannot, from the Union. By the way, Budapest-Belgrád will already be part of the trans-European network. Maybe it's about whether or not he's gonna make an income, you don't have to tell him separately. You do not think seriously that there will be no revenue, a serious revenue for such a railway section, because we expect that the investment will pay off from the use of the track, and it will naturally benefit Hungary. So you should also know who asked the experts, and I hope the experts have supported what I am saying now, that if Hungary is not involved in this stream of goods, it will go below us. They know that if we do not get involved, then Pireus, Bulgaria, Romania, can come on any line, by the way, Serbia, Croatia, Slovenia, Austria, and we are already out. Don't even think about it, because then we won't be the tip of the spear, we'll be the eastern mark if we don't seize the opportunity! I would like to refer here to the suggestion made by Mrs Schmuck Erzsébet, in which Kopert mentioned why we should not deal with Koper. Exactly now, a few weeks ago, and hopefully we will also get approval for it, a new Corridor that will allow us to distribute the goods from Koper through Hungary, thus also using the field's revenue. So we must deal not only with Koper outside Pireus, but also with Rijeka, so we must do everything we can to ensure that Chinese goods go further through Hungary when they are moving towards Hungary. On the other hand, the fact that it is not responsible behaviour, as Mr Józsa said, to think about the investment with the help of borrowing, I also took it with a little smile because if we remember PPP constructions, specifically on several occasions, the construction of two motorways means a loan of HUF 3 000 billion to Hungary for 30 years, on the basis of the contracts approved in 2009. So it's gonna expire in 2031-32, just for the record, that's the loan. So they put three thousand billion forints in our necks, but it was a bigger amount. The highways are built, but we still have to build them to make sense. [[17.10]] So perhaps you should be more careful, but it's natural to put it that way. I think about it, we have a different opinion about it, we think it was a responsible step. By the way, nine government decisions aligned the process at the end of which the Convention was subwritten on 24 September. With regard to the questions and expectations of my fellow Member Mr Ander Balázs: we cannot fulfill everything he has said in his speech, in his speech as a speaker, but I am sure that you will support it and your faction will support Hungary's ability to further increase its weight, its importance here in Central Europe, and, as I have just said, do not stay out of this commodity process. It would be good, and we would like to have a clear goal, as we have just said, that we have managed to increase our exports to China, but China is more famous for flooding the world with its products, and we can think about what we do and what we do if Chinese goods arrive in the region anyway: we do not allow them to go outside of us, or in some way, but do we also see some of their income or benefits? We prefer this solution, and we do not stop Chinese goods, but let them pass through the renovated railway lines of Hungary, as will be the renewal of the 150 line. I wouldn't call it a waste, because after a thoughtful and thoughtful preparatory work, the agreement was signed, and Mrs Schmuck Erzsébet, a very well-representing woman, knows that the info law is 27. Paragraph 5 of the Act provides that studies for the basis of the decision are encrypted for a period of 10 years. So these are the studies that you have asked for and have given a written answer as to why they are not made available to you. Nevertheless, the question is whether we want to participate in this process or whether the Chinese are importing the goods from Pyreus outside of us. All we know about Pyreus is that the port of Pyreus is already in Chinese hands, and we know that a large percentage of the Copernican port has already been filled. So we can connect to Koper now, otherwise it's too late, and Rijeka is the next option that we need to take. So Hungary is not in a position to release anything that increases, strengthens or stabilizes its economy. So it was probably also taken into account by those who put together the studies, and I'm sure that the amount of study and the amount of information they wanted about it could be obtained, because it wasn't a sealed secret, and I'm sure the expert staff could get the information if they asked. I feel that we can count on the support of political parties regardless, and I hope that in the next period you will understand that it is a matter of real bargaining, and that the interest on credit will be high. It's a next process. Of course, we would like to put as many Hungarian businesses as possible in the position of Hungary. The extent to which we can and can be involved will naturally also affect the size of interest rates. These will be very difficult negotiations next. I am sure that Hungary can stand up, and in the negotiations it can achieve the best opportunity it can in such a situation. So we want to be the tip of the spear, and we are very confident that with the improvements that we have already formulated, which we have also described in the national transport development strategy adopted in August 2014, which included this investment, and we hope to achieve a large percentage, Hungary's rail transport will improve, and overall Hungary's transport policy will serve the purpose and serve the purpose of its implementation, as its creators have imagined. Will the return be 2,400 years? If the experts give such advice, do not accept it next time, dear Congresswoman. Otherwise, if we just listen to the professionals, nothing would ever happen if we just listened to them. We must not only listen to professionals, but also know what we want to do with an economic situation or an area. If we had listened only to professionals and not to the people living there, then we would never be exposed to disadvantaged economic areas now. The road between Ozd-Bátonyterenye would never, for example, be renovated, the M44 would never be fixed, and for example, the railway line of Balatonszentgyörgy would never be renovated if we only looked at professionals and listened to the opinions of professionals. We must also listen to the opinion of the voters, and we must take into account their requests and see how we can help them to thrive. So listening to professionals would be a big mistake in the political field, but professionals can help us make a good political decision. Of course that's true. Dear Parliament, Thank you with all due respect. Thank you for your support from Mrs Házságság, in which you confirmed that the Hungarian Government is on the right track. Thank you very much for your comments. Mr. President, thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-03-30-136	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, I would like to inform you that the amendment proposals can be submitted by 4 p.m. on Friday. Dear Parliament, The Hungarian Development Bank's 2011 XX. General discussion of the bill amending the law until closure. The government referral is T/9783. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, I give the floor to Mrs Lászlóné Németh, Secretary of State of the Prime Minister's Office, the rapporteur of the item on the agenda. Here you go.
u2016-03-30-137	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, The amendment proposal before you proposes to remove the Hungarofest Event Management Company from Annex 1 to the Development Bank Act. Until 31 March 2015, on the basis of a public service contract, this company had a priority task of carrying out state memorial days and national holidays. By the end of 2015, they also received an additional task to organize the events related to the year of German-Hungarian friendship. In 2014, in the summer of 2014, a decision was taken, according to which professional coordination and the resources needed for this activity were also provided to the Ministry of Defence. Following the expiry of the public service contract, the Ministry did not claim the company's activities, and the defence portfolio has now carried out this task with its own resources. Similarly, in 2014 the Hungarian Development Bank received a new task from the government, as a result of which the bank's role as trustee was reduced, and the MFB began to perform financial and classic development banking functions in a significant part. Accordingly, in the last two years, public forestry, transport infrastructure companies have been excluded from the exercise of the bank's ownership rights, and the MFB has become, let's call it, a financial service centre. The legislative amendment that you are about to propose is a continuation of this portfolio cleanup. I would just like to point out here that, in addition to energy investments, the MFB will then have only predominantly companies that provide capital, credit or guarantees and financial services. If the House accepts this legislative amendment proposal, so that the company is removed from Annex 1 to the Development Bank Act, the shareholder of the ownership right will be the Hungarian National Asset Manager again under the Law on State Property, they can decide whether or not to initiate the winding-up of Hungarofest. In the light of what has been said, I ask you to support this proposal. Thank you. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-03-30-138	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, Now we're going to have keynote speeches. First, Congressman Sándor Hadházy, lead speaker of the Fidesz. Here you go.
u2016-03-30-139	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, The T/9783 ahead. Proposal XX of 2001 on the Hungarian Development Bank Company amends law, which essentially means that Hungarofest Kft. is deleted from Annex 1 to the Act. Allow me to give some thought to the context of the amendment. As you know, since the summer of 2014, it has been the responsibility of the Minister of Defence to develop the concept of national events, to manage administrative and priority institutional coordination, to develop and manage full-scale public communication, and to manage contacts with the public media. [[17.20]] The Ministry of Defence commissioned Hungarofest Kft. to carry out the related tasks until 31 March 2015, which meant the conduct of state memorial days and national holidays. However, the Ministry of Defence intends to entrust the organisation of the event to the Office under the supervision of the Ministry, the National Event Management Office. Hungarofest Kft. In 2015, on the basis of the order of the Prime Minister's Office, he still performed the tasks related to the organisation of programs and events related to the year of German-Hungarian friendship, which he had to account for until 15 December 2015. As a consequence, Hungarofest Kft. His duties and orders have ceased. In connection with the professional operation of the company, new tasks and needs have not been identified, and the legislator therefore proposes to terminate the company in the framework of its winding-up. This is currently hindered by the MFB Act 3. § 5 which states that MNV Zrt. may not terminate the company in the framework of an winding-up. However, if Hungarofest is not included in the Annex to the Act, then the holder of the ownership rights is CVI of 2007 on State property. by law, MNV Zrt. Will do. MNV Zrt. Hungarofest Kft. may then decide. the opening of its winding-up. Then, of course, the question arises as to who takes over the duties of Hungarofest. As you will be aware, on 13 June 2014, the National Event Planning Office was established, which is delegated to prepare and conduct national holidays and events of major importance, and to carry out additional tasks defined by law. In addition to the three leading festivals, he is responsible for organising 11 special events. These include, for example, Memorial Day for the victims of communism, Memorial Day for the victims of the Holocaust in Hungary and Day of National Inclusion. Dear Parliament, I think that HM can also manage these tasks within the house, so that it can supervise the organisation of national holidays and commemorative days more directly and, on the other hand, simplify the organisation of these events. For the above practical reasons, please support the bill. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2016-03-30-140	Thank you very much. Congressman László Szakács, head speaker of the MSZP. Here you go.
u2016-03-30-141	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Dear House, In fact, we think that it is not from the devil, of course, which the ministry is now presenting to us, but we do not necessarily understand the reason. We see that Antal Rogán announced on March 1 that they would like to set up a new agency where they would be engaged in a more efficient, hand-in-hand development of tourism that would also be responsible for branding. We have also seen what my fellow Members have said: Hungarofest is very, very empty, and there were no activities in it that had been done before. If I remember correctly, even on its website 2014 is the last update you can still see on it, and March 15, 2015 was probably the last time Hungarofest organized a state holiday. On August 20, this year, HM was the one that staged the fireworks. We can see that, and maybe it's not from the devil, that when a company is empty, that company is no longer needed. My colleague said that HM could handle it in-house. What we don't understand, and I'd really like answers to that, so we can get the right information, why the NFM didn't solve this in-house. Perhaps Hungarofest could have been suitable for being in the NFM six months ago, when the MFB was there to perform the duties of this agency. Known, well-known organization they've been involved in for a long time. It is true that the results could not have actually been achieved by exchanging any management, but in fact, the Hungarofest could have been transformed into such an agency when it was still within the NFM's bosom. We'd be pretty much in the same place as we are right now. As a result, it is worth asking some questions in order to be clear and to have the information on which to take a position on this matter. Once again, it's not from the devil, they can even terminate this company once it's empty, but we don't understand why it's not used. The question is how much it costs to eliminate Hungarofest. Here, we are obviously thinking of severance payments, winding-up procedures, possible former supplier debts, everything, since in one winding-up, each of these has to be certified. How many people lose their jobs? I think it doesn't matter. Once again, I have to ask why this has not become the agency that builds a brand that brings together that tourism-related energy system and resource system that you think is very fragmented, which I also think Hungarofest could have done. We see that we will be faced with a much larger transformation in terms of financing, resource use and tasks of tourism than, let us say, a kft. winding-up. Because if we simplify it indefinitely, that's all we're talking about. If we're just talking about remodeling the cafeteria system or anything else, we can see that there's a clear effort behind this. So the force vectors are pointing in the same direction. We're not even sure they're pointing in the wrong direction, we just don't know enough about it. In fact, we would be able to support it with a good heart if we could get answers to these questions. So whether this power vector really points to what we think is where this concept is or whether it will be, because on March 1st, Antal Rogán announced it, today is the 30th, so I suppose it has not been worked out yet. But if there is one, will it be known, when can we know why this company will not be the agency? I think that when we know this information, we can make a responsible decision about it. For a year this company has been asleep, if it had slept long enough for us to have certain information about this information that we could judge whether this company is actually being accounted for, then it would obviously be easier for us to decide. By the way, I would ask the Secretary of State and the governing factions to help us make the right decision. It's not from the devil, we just don't understand why. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2016-03-30-142	Thank you very much. Congressman János Volner, lead speaker for Jobbik. Here you go.
u2016-03-30-143	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I'll be brief. These reasons supported this step by the government. We believe that the reform of the governance structure, including, of course, other background institutions, business organisations, is essentially a matter of government competence. Therefore, Jobbik will adopt and support this proposal. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2016-03-30-144	Thank you very much. We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. There's no independent congressman in the room. No one has applied for a two-minute speech, and no one has applied for any other speech. My comment is not encouraging, but simply presenting the facts. But it is my duty to ask you if anyone wishes to take the opportunity to speak. [[No one's reporting.]] I asked, you answered. As no one has made themselves known, the general debate is closed. I'll ask the Secretary of State if she wants to react. [[Lászlóné Németh: Yes, in a few words.]] Here you go.
u2016-03-30-145	Thank you very much. I would like to point out a few things about what Congressman Cook said. As I said, in the summer of 2014, so yes, when the new governance structure was established and the related tasks were redistributed, the decision was already made that the Ministry of Defence would be responsible for the task of public celebrations. [[17 .30]] The specific public service contract that expired in March 2015 clearly covered the period of time that was the summer decision of 2014 and the preparation of the staff of the Ministry of Defence. I also thought it important to note that, until the end of 2015, Hungarofest had a job, had a job, had a job, had a job, had a purpose to maintain its activities, because it was also a very important thing. However, the winding-up in itself means that the company still has those reserves, and they are present, which means that if the National Asset Manager decides to close the company permanently, which he has the right to do, he will not leave a debt behind this company, but fulfil all its obligations. The longer we wait, and then it's an answer to why now, the longer we wait, the longer we keep up this corporate structure, even with two people, the closer we get to losing zero or maybe minus the money available. Now, the dates here are important because the decision that the agency will now stand up, what tasks it will receive, how it will perform them, is not so long since the decision is being made. What Hungarofest meant was our past. So we're here to combine the two things and say that we're not saying that we're gonna give back ownership rights here to the trustee so that he can make a decision, and I'm not sure he's gonna decide otherwise. He's supposed to have the opportunity not to start winding up, because, let's just say, I'm using this line of thought that you said, but there's one more thing I'd like to suggest to you here. We are talking about cutting red tape, which is a process that is very often and which triggers a big debate when we rationalise the background institutions and start removing those that are absolutely not needed to operate. I think that keeping Hungarofest separate, whatever title it is, belongs here. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2016-03-30-146	Thank you very much, Madam Secretary. I would like to inform you, Mr Parliament, that it is possible to submit the amendments by 4 p.m. on Friday. Dear Parliament, I would remind you that at the initiative of the national Parliament, CLIX of 2012 on postal services decided. T/9785. Therefore, the general debate on the proposal will not take place today. Thus, the general debate on the bill amending certain migration-related legislation, and in this context, will follow up until closure. The government referral is T/9634. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. I declare that the presentation will be discussed as an EU item on the agenda by the Parliament. First, I give the floor to Mr Károly Kontra, Minister of State of the Ministry of the Interior. Secretary of State, please.
u2016-03-30-147	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, The bill before you provides for the necessary amendments to legislation for the effective management of mass immigration and for harmonisation of legislation. The amendments to the legislation on aliens are partly justified by the practice of law enforcement, partly by a more effective enforcement of economic interests, and also by reducing bureaucracy and simplifying procedures. In this context, the bill simplifies the consolidated authorisation procedure on the basis of practical experience so far. As a result, a more transparent procedure will be put in place to facilitate the work of law enforcement bodies, reduce the possibility of abuse, and lead to a simpler and more understandable procedure for customers, as well as a more efficient and faster administration. In line with the amendment of the rules of the single authorisation procedure, it is also necessary to amend accordingly certain related legislation in order to streamline employment-related procedures. The bill also strengthens the rules for applying for a residence permit at home in order to reduce abuse. This will enable the Authority to act more effectively and reduce the administrative burden of the Authority and the number of possible judicial proceedings. With the adoption of the bill, two EU directives, legal harmonisation, will also be implemented. One is the seasonal directive adopted by the European Parliament and Council on 26 February 2014. This aims, inter alia, to make it easier for third-country nationals to travel to the Union for seasonal work. The second is the so-called ICT Directive, which was adopted by the European Parliament and Council on 15 May 2014. The aim of the Directive is primarily to facilitate the admission of intra-corporate transferees to and from the Union. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, In addition to the previous experience, it is necessary to simplify the possibility of obtaining a residence and residence permit issued from the interests of the national economy in such a way that a national residence permit can be applied for directly. The reason for this is that, according to practical experience, investors and their family members wish to obtain a residence permit and that the current two-tier application procedure, i.e. the residence and establishment procedures, unduly duplicate the administrative burden on customers and the authority. Dear Parliament, The migratory pressure on Hungary last year has shown that asylum seekers have abused the asylum law in a mass, and it is therefore justified to tighten it up on the basis of experience. [[Dr. András Schiffer: What does that have to do with abuse?]] The primary aim of this is to reduce the social benefits for asylum seekers and beneficiaries of international protection. [[Dr. András Schiffer: What does this have to do with abuse?]] Mr President, I would ask the President to reassure our fellow Member Schiffer, because he seems very excited and unable to command his anger.
u2016-03-30-148	Thank you very much for your advice. The Secretary of State will continue his expedition, and this will surely reassure the Member.
u2016-03-30-149	Thank you very much, Mr. President. So the primary direction is that the proposal reduces the social benefits for asylum seekers and beneficiaries of international protection. This will prevent economic migrants from applying for asylum in Hungary only in the hope of a better life. To this end, it is proposed that the institution of the integration contract and any related support resulting from which beneficiaries of international protection were entitled to benefits which did not belong to the Hungarian citizen. Furthermore, after recognition, refugees and beneficiaries will be entitled to stay at the reception centre for only one month instead of the current two months. In addition to complying with EU law, the legislative amendments proposed in this draft act improve the coherence of the Hungarian migration law and contribute to improving the sense of security of Hungarian citizens by more effective action against abuses. In view of the above, in view of the arguments put forward, I ask the Honourable Parliament to discuss and adopt the bill submitted. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2016-03-30-150	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. We will continue our work with speeches from the lead speaker. First, I give the floor to Mr Simon Miklós, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group. [[Dr. Miklós Simon can't get his microphone on.]] Can the congressman handle the technique, or should we help him? [[17.40]]
u2016-03-30-151	Yes, thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, The migration crisis is not only a huge humanitarian task, but also a political, social and economic challenge for Europe, including Hungary. [[Dr. András Schiffer: For Árpád Meg Habony!]] It is important that last year has brought much experience in the system of domestic asylum procedures, which have also clearly highlighted the possibilities of financial abuse. The primary objective of the current bill is that immigrants arriving in Hungary cannot receive more support, more benefits than a Hungarian citizen. The primary direction of tightening up is to reduce social benefits for asylum seekers and beneficiaries of international protection, which avoids economic immigrants applying for asylum in Hungary only in the interest of a better life. To this end, the institution of the integration contract and any support that does not belong to Hungarian citizens will be abolished. From immigration data, it is clear that the now illegally trying people are not Syrians, Afghans and Iraqis, but Pakistani and Moroccans, which is clear that they are not fleeing from war, they have only made an economic decision to leave their country. According to the integration agreement, the single foreign persons have been paid 90 thousand forints in the first half of the year, which is reduced by 22 500 forints every six months in the two years of the grant. According to the same contract, families are currently entitled to HUF 85 000/adult/month and HUF 25 000/child/month. Families can receive a maximum of HUF 215 thousand per month. These amounts are not, however, modest support. This system is not fair to Hungarian citizens, and it also places a heavy burden on the public administration, and it generates only economic immigration. The proposal would repeal housing and training support, and neither asylum seekers nor beneficiaries of international protection would be eligible for spending money. According to another point of the proposal, those with refugee status in the future may stay at reception centres for only one month instead of two months after recognition of refugee rights, during which time they must settle the conditions for their stay in Hungary. As can be seen from the European news, Western European countries also reduce the scope and amount of benefits that migrants can receive, because there is a strong tendency for immigrants to apply for asylum in countries where they can obtain greater financial means. In view of this, it is clear that we need to talk about economic migration. The migration crisis has already put a heavy burden on our country. These expenses are estimated at more than HUF 85 billion, most of which have been provided by the Hungarian state, and thus by Hungarian citizens. Ladies and gentlemen, Further provisions of the proposal provide that asylum detention may be applied in the future in all cases of return, so as to ensure the presence of the asylum seeker received under the Dublin procedure during the procedure. It is proposed that the asylum authority review every three years the fulfilment of the conditions for recognition as a refugee, so that the status of persons no longer in need of international protection could be withdrawn. The bill would also strengthen the system of domestic application for a residence permit, because at present a large number of third-country nationals abuse the domestic application for a residence permit and the related fairness procedure for preventing or delaying the imposition of a expulsion decision or the execution of a previously ordered expulsion. The bill also deals with legislative amendments resulting from our obligations to harmonise EU legislation. Such is the already mentioned seasonal directive, the ICT Directive and the legal harmonisation of the EU pilot procedure. To sum up, therefore, changes to foreign police legislation are justified by practical experience, partly by economic interests, and also by cutting red tape and simplifying procedures. The Fidesz faction supports the bill, and I respectfully ask you to support it. Thank you. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-03-30-152	Thank you very much. Here comes Congressman Tamás Harangozó, head speaker of the MSZP.
u2016-03-30-153	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, So far, we haven't heard much about this bill, so I'm trying to shed some light on what this bill is really about. This bill is an excellent combination of all the characteristics of the Orbán government's policy and legislative practice: double-facedness, lies, hatred and unscrupulous slumber. It's all in one salad law. The government is two-faced and insidious because it acts as if it respects EU law, the EU's core values, while crushing them with its feet. This bill is largely about the transposition of EU directives into Hungarian law. The rapporteur gives a long and nice justification for how many rules they would like to amend in order to ensure that they comply with EU law in all respects. Obviously, this is the European-friendly image that the government wants to show to Brussels. Meanwhile, in the same bill, the EU rules are being trampled on, gross and pointless tightening up against those who Hungary has granted protection on the basis of asylum. For the Hungarian public, this is already seen as a new element of the anti-alien hate campaign by public media, which has become government propaganda, as a pro-government proposal to prevent the attack of illegal immigrants in Hungary. However, this is a fraud, my fellow Members. This bill is not about the European Union, refugees and the refugee crisis, nor even about the power interests of Fidesz, but only about the unscrupulous mischief, that the Rogán Antal settlement bonds will benefit even more from the lucky intermediaries chosen by Fidesz. He forgot to report about the bill, the pro-government expo and keynote speech, along with the public media with so much interest in the bill that the customers of the buddy companies will now receive a real VIP supply. With the purchase of the bond, anyone can get a residence permit immediately, with shorter deadlines and less administration. As a first step, the purchase of the bond allowed bond holders and their family members only to obtain a residence permit, but now they are immediately granted a residence permit and thus an unlimited right of entry and residence throughout the European Union. [[17.50]] With the new rules it will be even easier to fulfil the conditions for obtaining Hungarian citizenship, so the business created by Antal Rogán continues to spin, for which my fellow Members, who are fidesz, are now providing even more favourable conditions. After all, Antal Rogán and his friends know that a good business requires a friendly business environment and a high level of customer service, at a reasonable price. Nowhere in the European Union will an investment-linked residence permit be given as cheaply as you do here. There is no need to create working investments, to employ Hungarian labour force, to produce Hungarian added value, but not even to stay in Hungary; one must be done by the wealthy foreigner seeking unlimited European entry and residence: he must lend this loan to the Hungarian State for a few years, and he will receive this loan with interest, and the interest will be paid by the Hungarian taxpayers. The business therefore has two winners: the wealthy foreigner, which does not otherwise qualify for a European residence permit, and the companies that organise the business for a multibillion-dollar commission. [[Dr. András Schiffer: Economic immigrants!]] The real aim of this bill is to make even more profit by giving their wealthy foreign clients real VIP services from the Hungarian state. Of course, the business, the business, you're making a deal selling the opportunity to settle in the European Union for money. There is no question that this is a huge business, which is obviously worth some political inconvenience to Fidesz. Many on the Turkish and Libyan coasts are also trying to get rich by selling goods to better and safer people who want to live in the EU and their customers are small-scale citizens of Asian and African countries. The business model invented by Fidesz offers the same to wealthy Asian citizens, of course at an incomparably higher level. In addition, those using Fidesz's business model will even get their invested money back, plus interest, while those crossing the Mediterranean and the Aegean sea with boats will never see a penny from the tour operators. It is infinitely false that Fidesz seeks to capitalize on political capital by flogging xenophobia while selling the right of establishment for money. They claim to be national while dealing with Hungarian citizenship. If you can pay, it doesn't matter whether you are a Christian or not, fear of cultural differences is suppressed by the smell of money. The high point of unscrupulousness is that they are able to present the rules that boost their settlement business in the same law, in which they withdraw assistance from recognized people who are truly fleeing war and who are protected. Is that Christian compassion, fellow Christian Democrats? Anyone who can lend millions to the Hungarian state for a few years will be accepted, and those who flee from persecution or poverty will be deprived of all help? In addition, they have succeeded in reaching a new low on anti-alien propaganda: the bill does not impose restrictions on people who cross borders illegally, typically heading towards North and West Europe. They take the help away not from economic immigrants, but from the so-called recognized refugees, from the people who the Hungarian State and the Hungarian authorities have determined to flee from persecution, from the people who waited for the end of the asylum procedure, who really expected the protection of Hungary, not just in the hope of going to the West. They want to cut off integration services from people who really intend to live in Hungary, and have also received permission from the Hungarian authorities; for example, in the future, they intend to do the same for Transcarpathians fleeing Ukraine. I would like to ask my fellow Members to think carefully about the consequences. Is it worth throwing the entire system of institutions for social inclusion into the trash for two to three weeks so that they can continue to roll their propaganda based on the refugee crisis? If they're basing their policies on this propaganda instead of meaningful governance, then at least come up with something that doesn't grind up functioning institutions. The elimination of the entire institutional system for integration is not only an inhumane but also a tremendously short-sighted step from a social point of view. [[Dr. András Schiffer intervenes.]] If the state facilitates the integration of recognised refugees, protected people, and their employment, these people will not cost the state, the Hungarian people, after a short period of time. If, on the other hand, we push the recognised refugees into the streets without any help, we condemn them to maintain themselves through the social security system - you do not want that, my fellow Members. I must at any rate draw the attention of my fellow Members to another lying element of the bill: the rules on so-called receptionists are transferred from the Alien Police Act to the Asylum Act. This may seem to be a technical change at first sight, but it is not certain that it will be, given its effects. In fact, the status of admission is not a refugee law category, but people who should be rejected are considered as admitted, but there is no safe country to which this could happen, i.e. essentially a tolerated status, which has nothing to do with asylum legislation. What, then, is the purpose of this amendment? This is probably how they will try to distort asylum procedural statistics, using the category of asylum as a substitute for asylum instead of a refugee. All in all, therefore, the government presented a bill to the Parliament for the purposes of a liar, inciting hatred and unscrupulous musketeering. This bill presents the essence of Fidesz's policy: the flogging of anti-alien nationalist passions, and while the country's population is distracted by the permanent fight of freedom with the whole world, the unscrupulous doggy is free to play over the country's wealth to the fidesz friends. And anyone who dares speak of theft is an agent of traitor, anti-national and current enemy, the United States, the EU or even illegal immigrants. You should note, my fellow Members, that every day more and more Hungarians see through these repulsive practices. Today, it is only the parliamentary opposition, in a few weeks and months, that perhaps the majority of society will say no to their shaming laws that serve dogs. Sooner or later, people will be calling on you to siphon education and health care systems, frozen salaries, and more and more people will be asking out loud: how did the fidesz buddies become billionaires, how did the fidesz big-owner aristocracy build? Eventually, all Members who vote and support such and similar laws will have to give an account. The MSZP deeply condemns and despises this bill, and we reject it most definitely. Thank you for listening.
u2016-03-30-154	Thank you very much, Congressman. Mr Mátyás Firtl, lead speaker of the KDNP, is the next speaker. Here you go.
u2016-03-30-155	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. My colleague, who spoke before me, I can say that he has the right to say as he wishes to say, but I know that he is finally running for president of the MSZP, so it is also necessary to say all this about the pulpit. On the other hand, I see this issue differently because, most importantly, the primary purpose of this amendment is that immigrants arriving in Hungary cannot receive more support than Hungarian citizens, my honourable fellow Member, this is the main groundwork when we try to put anything on this idea. The proposed legislation suggests that asylum detention can be applied in the future in all cases of return. [[Dr. András Schiffer: The Cayman Islands?]] Practical experience justifies the amendment of the rules on alien law enforcement. The bill also deals with legislative amendments resulting from our obligations to harmonise EU legislation: the seasonal directive, the ICT Directive, the right of citizens of the Union and their family members to move and reside freely in the territory of the Member States. The amendment of migration laws is part of the responsible process with which the security of the Hungarian people is the first step of the Fidesz-KDNP administration, so we will take all measures to strengthen the safety of Hungarian people's everyday lives. We are convinced that the Hungarian people have the right to decide who they want to live with, and in what way, what laws we regulate, and this is especially the case after the attacks in Brussels, Paris and Turkey. There has been an increase in the threat of terrorism due to illegal migration, which is now a fact - you have also put this in a different way. Thousands of people arrive and arrive illegally on the continent on a daily basis without any control, without knowing who they are, why they are coming. This clearly goes hand in hand with an increase in the threat of terrorism. [[18.00]] The process of illegal immigrants entering the European Union from hundreds of countries around the world uncontrolled, unregistered and massed increases the threat of terrorism. You can argue with that - these are facts, honourable Members. Unfortunately, the acts of terrorism over the past period have proved it at the cost of human lives. It undermines the safety of people in Europe, endangers the quality of life in Europe, the everyday average life that European citizens want to live. The Hungarian government guarantees the security of the Hungarian people, all the measures of the Cabinet have pointed in this direction over the past period, and the amendment of the laws on migration before us serves this purpose. The fact that all areas of our quality of life are affected by the migrant situation shows that employment, the provision of the unemployed, equal opportunities for people with disabilities, support for families, recognition of foreign certificates and diplomas, the right of free movement and residence, entry and residence of third-country nationals, asylum, higher education laws all affect these amendments. The living conditions of Hungarian people are the first, as we will continue to do everything to ensure their safety, including everyday security and legal certainty. [[Dr. András Schiffer: What about the settlement bond business? Cayman Islands?]] If it is in the interests of the Hungarian people, my honourable fellow Member Schiffer, we wish to achieve it with appropriate legislative changes, if necessary by tightening up, that asylum seekers should not be entitled to benefits which do not belong to the Hungarian citizen who is paying the tax. This is something to be noted, fellow Members, which is why we should act and not deal with anyone else. [[Dr. László Kács: This is what should have been written.]] With regard to social benefits for asylum seekers and beneficiaries of international protection, it can therefore be avoided that so-called economic migrants should only present asylum and stay in Hungary in the hope of a better life. [[Dr. Tamás Bellozó: Mass.]] Ladies and gentlemen, I note only in parentheses when, thanks to the country's economic performance, the government's work leading to economic growth, it allows us to support home creation, families in an unprecedented way, the primary duty is to help workers, children's educators, home creators and elderly people with all our strength in this sense. [[Z. Carpathian Daniel: That's not what's in it.]] At the same time, I would like to emphasise several times and note in particular that those who are legally seeking asylum in our country have been, and will continue to be, granted asylum. But I would like to stress that. [[Dr. Tamás Bellozó: You're taking it from him now!]] Those who are here can't get more supply than every single Hungarian citizen. It is therefore important for us to deal with these legislative amendments. Of course, of course, as the Secretary of State has indicated, we must also comply with the legislative amendment to the EU directives, and, of course, the current amendment is trying to comply with this compliance. So when we discuss how we are trying to meet the European Union's expectations, we are fulfilling the obligations to amend Directive 2014/36/EU on the conditions of entry and residence of third-country nationals adopted on 26 February 2014 in accordance with the directives. This is the so-called seasonal directive. [[Sándor Lezsák, vice-president of the Parliament takes the chair.]] Similarly, on 15 May 2014, the European Parliament and the Council adopted the alignment of Directive 2014/66/EU on the conditions of entry and residence of third-country nationals in the framework of an intra-corporate transfer, hereinafter referred to as the ICT Directive, in Hungarian laws and in the European Union. The bill also complies with a legal harmonisation obligation by amending Act I of 2007 on the entry and residence of persons with the right of free movement and residence. In addition to complying with EU law, the legislative amendments proposed in the bill improve the coherence of the Hungarian migration legislation, thereby increasing legal certainty, strengthening economic and social cohesion, and contributing to increasing citizens' sense of security by more effective action against abuses. The amendment of the asylum law allows effective action against mass abusers of the asylum institution. To date, asylum detention has only been possible in the case of a transfer under the Dublin procedure, and the amendment can also be taken into custody in the event of return to the Dublin procedure. In this way, it ensures that the presence of an asylum seeker in the transferring Member State, but not a asylum seeker in Hungary, under the Dublin procedure, can be ensured. Ladies and gentlemen, Of course, the opposition's heart is to express what they are saying, but I think that when Fidesz-KDNP supports the proposal, it actually supports the fact that it protects the security of Hungarian people, the results of Hungarian people so far. Of course, due to the harmonisation of legislation, we are complying with the harmonisation of EU law. At the same time, I respectfully ask my fellow Members to support the bill tabled. If they do not, the Christian Democratic People's Party will do so. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Dr. András Schiffer: We haven't heard anything about settlement bonds! It's a rare round of applause from the pro-government ranks.]]
u2016-03-30-156	Thank you very much, Congressman Mátyás Firtl. I salute my fellow Members. [[Noise from the benches of MSZP.]] The meeting should be a little quieter, if you'd like. Thank you very much. I give the floor to Mr Dániel Z. Carpathian speaking on behalf of the Jobbik Group.
u2016-03-30-157	Mr President, Dear House, The government is putting us in a difficult position, because if we only knew the speeches of the Secretary of State or listened to Matthias Firtl's lead speaker, we would say that I can identify with the stated goals, at least myself, almost 100%. They told us very nice things. The problem begins with the fact that that's not what's on the paper. And the reason I feel sorry for Mr Secretary of State is that, on the one hand, we do not understand why it is only BM that is being presented to us, because it contains very serious economic issues. Our hopes were very high that, although we are encountering a typical salad law, which amends ten laws in total, and most of them are due to an obligation to harmonise EU legislation, we had a hope that our so-called asylum reform proposals, which is a migration issue, would be accepted at least partially. However, we see that almost nothing we have raised has been fully dealt with. Thus, they do not regulate mandatory legislation for return, they do not exclude fully relevant social benefits for so-called refugees, free forms of care. They do not impose any additional obligations on arrivals, or even allow them, where appropriate, on the subject of border surveillance, so we simply do not see complete solutions to prevent return and deportation. However, they are slavishly adopting proposals for EU solutions that are not necessarily mandatory, thus, even when implementing directives, they exceed the expectations of the Brussels Witch Kitchen. From a Kodification point of view, it can be seen that several experts, possibly officials from several ministries, have worked on this material completely independently of each other. This would not be such a problem in itself, but it would have been a serious task, which was at least partially cancelled. We see that there are positive and negative points in everything, but at the same time there are some points that knock out the fuse and simply make the whole package that lies in front of us unsuitable. For example, the elimination of integration support implies a correct direction, and we can also see that the allocation of existing forms of support is not, in fact, required by any international EU standard, at best, proposed. The same mistake was made by the government in the case of CSOK. CSOK is, according to European court interpretation, simply a form of social assistance which cannot be regarded as part of the basic social package in which an asylum seeker should be granted and is appropriate. At the same time, during the extension of the CSOK, you provided the Hungarian taxpayers' money, the amount of discount they could obtain for migrants, and today, the 24-hour debate on NOK, i.e. after the President of the Republic's discard, during which Jobbik had 9 whole minutes, also contained that they could not give a meaningful answer to our suggestion as to why NOK had to be extended to migrants. No EU directive or binding directive will force you to do so, nor will you be obliged to do so. [[18.10]] However, we can also see that, in the course of the amendment of the Labour Audit Act, there are also concessions that are simply not true for Hungarian workers, which are not valid. Thus, when we see that a sub-contractor may establish a liability for the person concerned if he is an employer who employs a third-country national in the framework of a seasonal work under the special legislation and has not paid his/her salary until the employment has ceased, he/she wishes to grant those arriving from third countries a benefit, a package of security guarantees that simply does not apply to Hungarians. It is incomprehensible, completely incomprehensible, without any EU directive, directive, the dictatorship of the Brussels sorcery does not require this. So you are overachieving what is expected of you in a totally unjustified way. We also see that a law on entry and residence of persons with the right of free movement and residence is being amended. For example, if marriage breaks up, the rule in force now is that the spouse's right of residence is maintained. This would now apply to family members, and we are faced with a long list of family members, from which the conclusion is clear: it could attract large numbers of migrants to the EU if they did not create any barriers to making these family reunification processes even easier in the near future. By the way, we can find - to commend something - an amendment from Jobbik's proposal in August, whereby they can actually expel the person who is a threat to the public order and public security of our country, in addition to the threat to national security, which can be found in the legislation in force. But what we see - perhaps the worst part of this package, the amendment of the 2007 law on the entry and residence of third-country nationals - is that you have developed a package for the mechanism of intra-corporate transfer, which is also a threat to the Hungarian national economy. We see that, in terms of intra-corporate transfer - this is obviously developed for Western European multinational networks and also for management activities involving their subsidiary companies in Hungary - it is entitled to move freely within the territory of the Member States of the European Union, to travel to and stay in Hungary for a period not exceeding 90 days, to work with the Hungarian host organisation in the framework of the intra-corporate transfer without special authorisation. That is, in the case at hand, a citizen from a third country, who is asked whether the Hungarian national economy really needs it. That the car manufacturing subsidiary operating here needs it, I believe and see it, but you should not accept it, because it is likely and presumed that not only the masses of brain surgeons will come to Hungary, let us say, in deficit trades, to fill the gaps. The question here is to whom this opening gate will be applied, to whom the multinational networks will apply the opportunities that you are now writing out, and these multinational networks, if any, with the power of issuing a medium-sized nation state, seem to be very capable of dictated to you. You are talking about migrants being undesirable in Hungary. It's a proper directive, you can argue about its nuances, what to do with a few percent of real refugees who come from real persecution. There may have been a common understanding that the helping hand should and should be stretched out in their direction, but here we are talking about a dwarf minority in terms of the mass of arrivals. At the same time, we see them talking about the hermetic closure of borders, while the leakage is continuous, not one day over 100 arrivals, while you are hermetically closing the border. The thing is, they didn't do that. The fact is that this border has not been guaranteed with sufficient numbers and equipment, because we respect the work of the police and the defence, but we also see that they are needed primarily elsewhere. Now I will say a very bad one, but if we want to protect the Hungarian border in a sustainable way, then we need a separate border guard, which, operating at a depth of 50-70 km, would be able to guarantee the safety of Hungary's borders with the right equipment and proper care, even if the Balkan route crashes if necessary. So as we see that the infiltration is ongoing, the establishment of the border guard is delayed. The launch of the quota-free Hungary is also delayed, as Hungary's Government still thinks only in the referendum on the compulsory resettlement mechanism, after the idea of Jobbik half a year, but at least with a small phase loss. At the same time, it does not address the various mutations of the quota, it does not intend to extend this issue to repatriations, to a better proposal, and we can see from this salad package that, in fact, there is no established mechanism for those trapped here that would achieve a situation with 100% certainty for Hungary so that we would not be stranded by aliens arriving here uninvited by mass. We understand that this thing works on a case-by-case basis with possible solutions, for example, we have received excellent, professional information from the Immigration and Nationality Office staff, and we see that they are doing their best in the given framework and circumstances, but we also see that, in the sense of the package before us - and it starts with a large quotation mark - they cannot do anything if the person is stuck here, I quote:. If there is no safe country to accept the third-country national concerned, in the event of redirection or non-execution, the asylum authority recognises the third-country national as admitted and arranges the issue of the humanitarian residence permit. The question is what happens later. What happens in a case where thousands or tens of thousands of people can be deported to Hungary as a result of any new type of mutation, a new kind of Brussels idea? What happens when the Balkan front collapses? What happens if, in parallel, the core europe begins to protect its own countries, its own territories with physical border seals and other methods, and Hungary forms a legalised no-go zone? So we have scenarios to prepare for. But what we see is that it is quite amazing that, while the government is trying to exclude the incoming mass of migrants from the life of Hungary, the situation will change if the incoming large bank account has a huge bank account, the circumstances will change if, under the heading of the settlement government bond, people are allowed in a way that does not bring anything to Hungary in the long term. After all, what does it bring for Hungary to know that you have developed a form of settlement government bond business? This does not affect our long-term financial balance in a positive direction, as it is effectively a loan that you will repay directly, but fully in terms of its spill-over effects. So this does not contribute to Hungary's financial balance, not in the long term. At the same time, they can also help to stay, and later to become a citizen, with elements that may not be needed by the Hungarian national economy. And the fact that this is actually complemented by a VIP package is quite simply incomprehensible and, in the long term, impertinent, because Hungarian citizenship is not a commodity, it cannot be bought and sold. Now you are not buying or buying citizenship, but as regards residence rights and residence permits, you are letting the arrivals against whom Jobbik believes the zero tolerance principle should prevail, as in Hungary it is not forbidden for anyone to appear for investment purposes, to come here through a fair network of companies, to invest, where appropriate, to profit if it does not violate the Hungarian national economy, but to do a real business with intermediaries, commissions, sums repaid - otherwise one of the lowest rates in Europe - by making a commodity out of Hungarian citizenship, as they allow the arrivals into the hall, it is untenable and brazen. Therefore, we do not understand why, for this package, which lies ahead of us, Mr State Secretary has been appointed and brought into this unpleasant situation, because here, from the interests of car manufacturers to the lobbying force of those interested in the settlement bond business, there is a great deal that appears, which should not necessarily be protected by you, and it is not certain that he can protect them, because it is indefensible when the lobbying power of multinational networks is infiltrated in Hungary's legislation, as this package can be done. However, even if it were to protect the residency bond business itself, it would still be an almost impossible task, since - I would like to emphasise once again - Hungary can be subject to a financial payment by the system that has been developed, there is no national interest in it. The fact that they have to hide their new VIP services in a salad law is just plain embarrassing after six years of government. [[18.20]] In a manner worthy of gentlemen, one way should have been to put not ten amendments to legislation in a salad, but to discuss their amendments to migration, to the settlement obligation again in another package, and finally to the interests of car manufacturers and other aspects of EU harmonisation in a third. In this way, we could at least have meaningful professional debates on nuanced differences, but they put this package down so that we could not support it in any way. Thank you for your attention. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2016-03-30-158	Thank you very much. I give the floor to Mr András Schiffer. You have the floor.
u2016-03-30-159	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, This bill is the essence of Fidesz policy. The only thing I really missed was why Secretary Károly Kontra keeps his expo on behalf of the Ministry of the Interior. I think it would have been much more straightforward if you had given Árpád Habony the opportunity to justify this bill in a number of ways. This bill is the essence of Fidesz's policy because every evil and villainy that exists is in it, and I think it should be the least legislative harmonisation in relation to the bill. Why am I saying this? On the one hand, the bill for refugees that have already been recognised, not economic immigrants, terrorists or offenders, withdraws the benefits, the rights which Hungary otherwise grants to these persons under international agreements. He withdraws it, and in the meantime points to the safety of the Hungarian people in an impertinent manner. In the second stage, after people have been instigated against economic immigrants for months, these benefits will be withdrawn from those who are actual refugees, not economic immigrants; in the second step, they will facilitate the business with which they can bring economic immigrants to Hungary. Because the residency bond business - let us speak openly and clearly - is about you selling citizenship for money by committing a classified case of treason. In practice, all they do is bring economic immigrants into Hungary with a good deal, and here you do not care about the national security risk involved. Then, in the third step, after wanting to withdraw benefits from refugees recognised under the Geneva Convention, they ease the residency bond business so that more economic immigrants can enter Hungary, what do they do? Putting them in harmonisation glaze, they make it easier for large German companies to bring in workers who, where appropriate, are migrants admitted in Germany. Don't you feel the hypocrisy and rubbish of this entire bill? You really don't feel it? They are able to scare people with refugees, they are able to say that the benefits to refugees threaten the safety of Hungarian people, and then in the same bill they allow your key strategic partners to speak openly and clearly: German large companies - because the policy of the Orbán government makes Hungarian workers practically German servants - bring migrants in here to do the work in the Hungarian factories. Who do you think I'm stupid? You did not post a poster in Hungary by saying that if you come to Hungary, you can't take the work of the Hungarian people?So, on one side, the integration subsidies are withdrawn, on the one hand, they put the few people who are perfectly vulnerable and deprived of rights, and I remember the autumn debates well, even Dániel Z. Kárpát said that the help hand cannot be denied, and on the other hand they allow the German large companies, who are likely to be large beneficiaries of this whole crisis, to bring the cheap labour force into Hungary. Meanwhile, the settlement bond business is spinning, and you are selling Hungarian citizenship for money as a national party. You really don't have eyes? A bill like this is being brought in here and referred to as harmonisation of laws? Let's go first. As far as the element of the bill is concerned, that the various institutions relating to persons granted refugee recognition in Hungary are being narrowed down, let us clarify one thing. Even when this global migration crisis reached Hungary, LMP consistently represented that Hungary and all European countries, all European governments and the European institutions, must be able to distinguish clearly between real war and climate refugees, economic immigrants, and those who come to Europe with criminal intent and terrorist intent. In this task, the European Union has failed and Hungary has failed. Now this bill, make no mistake, at least this part of this bill does not deal with economic immigrants, but with refugees. With people who have not only been bombed, say, in Aleppo, but also Hungary, the government agencies that you manage, recognize that they are refugees. What does this bill say about them? On the one hand, the institution of the recently introduced integration treaty would be abolished. After that, it is said that, if possible, in asylum detention, men and 3.5 square meters of women's asylum seekers would be entitled, and families would be entitled to only 8 square meters, and they say that they will not receive a penny of spending money; so far they have been entitled to HUF 2850 a month. Do you really think that, in the truly critical European security situation, Hungarian citizens will be protected by the fact that - and we are talking about a few hundred people, I think - because you have announced that refugee camps can be closed in Hungary, your government has announced, Mr. State Secretary, because there are no refugees, so we are talking about a very small number of groups - they are being held in inhumane conditions by Hungary, by ending integration treaties, so that anyone will feel better about security in Hungary? Do you really mean that? At this point, it must be said about the yelling demagoguery with which you justified all these outrageous measures. They said that these people should not be touched by anything that does not belong to Hungarian people. The only thing they do not face is that Hungarian people, like everyone who lives in their own country, have a country. These people, who are granted asylum in Hungary or in any other country, have been recognised as refugees by the national authorities, have been forced to leave their country. Therefore, I think that with a small amount of humanity you can see that this is not a minor difference. Let's keep moving. While you, in the spirit of fighting economic immigrants, are looting those who have refugee status in Hungary, you will then facilitate the residency bond business. Let's look at the beneficiaries of this settlement bond business. Offshore companies. You guys talk about freedom fights? Three times we have tabled a bill in this House to sweep the offshore knights out of Hungary. Compared to this, the main beneficiaries of the settlement policy are offshore knights. The life force of this national economy was pumped out into offshore companies in the quarter century, the Hungarian government debt went out two and a half times from Hungary, a considerable part of the Hungarian people's income went out because politicians were hiding behind offshore companies and stealing this country. After that, you will not only introduce, but also facilitate, at an institution where Hungarian citizenship is being sold, you will not even look at the national security interests of a person standing behind a company who records these bonds and acquires rights, and otherwise the rights will be given to offshore companies. Secretary of State has certainly not read last week's article of the Week's Reply, where the newspaper writes - and there has been no rebuttal - that behind the multibillion-dollar settlement business is a company associated with your informal advisor, Árpád Habony. [[18.30]] This company, VolDan Investments, is covered with a stróman from Liechtenstein, and there's a business circle behind it that you called SZDSZ before 2010. What country do we live in, Mr. Secretary? This residency bond business is not for the Hungarian people, it's for someone else! And in the meantime, the income that should be here, and Hungary, the Hungarian people, should be enriched, goes to the Cayman Islands, and the devil knows where! Mr. Secretary. The loss of tax revenue in one year due to the settlement bond business is ten billion in size, all losses by entrusting offshore companies are in the order of one hundred billion. This hundred billion forints is missing from schools today, missing from hospitals. And they want to make this business easier with this law! What you call harmonisation, let's see, let's be clear about what it means. This means that, in the third step, additional special treatment will be granted to the government's strategic partners. Again, let us speak openly, special treatment means that the Orbán government does not deviate at all from the course that previous governments have conducted in the face of vocal freedom fighters. They continue to imagine a assembly country, still imagining a fundamentally export-driven, dependent economy. The only thing you're gonna do is ask for protection money from the assembly plants you're relocating. The key strategic partnership agreement is no more and no less than the Hungarian government's request for protection money to assemble products invented in other countries here under favourable conditions, rather than the fact that resources are essentially devoted to the development of Hungarian products. In the third step, you will make it easier for key strategic partners, mostly large German companies, to travel and grant them a work permit. What does that mean? You have concluded the key strategic partnership agreements in a row, for example, with German large companies. German large companies are big beneficiaries of this whole migration crisis, since cheap labour can be skimmed. We have already said in the autumn that one of the tragic benefits of this global migration crisis is that it can completely break the global balance. Here, global corporations are lining up to get the cheapest possible workforce out of the way. We don't even have to plant production a thousand or two thousand kilometers away. And you now give us the opportunity to fill these large companies with tax incentives, saying that they will offer jobs to Hungarians, here is the amendment of the law: you can bring the low-cost labour force, if necessary, to Hungary without obstacles. This is where the formula ends. Mr. Secretary. This bill means that you will go further on the course that is illustrated very well by the number ratio, which is about the fact that while you provide Audi with HUF 22 million for a new job, Mercedes will also receive support in the order of 10-20 million per job - at the time the Gyurcsány-Kóka government gave Hankook HUF 11 million per job - while wanting to create 1610 new jobs from HUF 3 billion in the support of Hungarian SMEs for job creation. This means that at work you give 1.8 million HUF to domestic micro-enterprises, cooperatives, the domestic SME sector. They go on the road where a multinational company receives ten times as much support for a job as a domestic microbusiness, a Hungarian cooperative, a domestic SME. So, to sum up, this bill goes against the international conventions recognised by Hungary, inhumane; it employs restrictions on a few hundred persons with refugee status recognised by the Orbán government, which is otherwise not related to the security situation of Hungary or Europe. The settlement bond business is being rolled up, where some people close to the government benefit, while the income can be pumped out of the Hungarian national economy untaxed, while the anti-offshore laws of the LMP are being swept off the table. Thirdly, they make it easier for your strategic partners to bring in their own workers, their own people and their own engineers after licking up state aid ten times the size of Hungarian entrepreneurs in their workplaces. So this job creation program is a huge bluff, and you give support to key strategic partners without even guaranteeing that Hungarians will be employed in these assembly plants. [[Károly Kontra: Mr President! The president's ringing the bell.]] Three-time scoundrelry and multiple scams on this bill. Thank you very much.
u2016-03-30-160	Thank you very much, Mr. Group Leader. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. No independent congressman has applied for a statement. I give Mr Z. Kárpa a two-minute speech to Mr Dániel.
u2016-03-30-161	Mr President, Dear House, It should be noted that the need for migration restrictions would be astonishing and elemental. However, I have only one question to ask the Secretary of State, and I very much ask that you answer that correctly. Now, when the Government of Hungary would facilitate the introduction of migrants to work in this package, let us leave it to the lobbying force, because we have explained in the lead speakerial round what we think is behind this, obviously you are saying something else about this. The only question we have is whether, in terms of strategic contracts, of which dozens were signed with large companies, these large companies were required to employ Hungarian workers or not to have such conditions, they were not required to prefer the employment of Hungarian workers to those from any third country or even from EEA countries. This is the question on which the whole dilemma between us is about what kind of motivational power you put here, possibly in terms of facilitating the labour cycle of a car manufacturer. Our question is therefore clear whether the companies that, in my view, receive the protection money from us in the form of job creation grants and in order to maintain jobs, in exchange for which they are willing to keep the job concerned for a period of one and a half to two years, have signed partly secret strategic contracts signed by you. So many times, the entire wage mass is almost passed over from the Hungarian budget. Our question is therefore clear whether these companies were required to prefer Hungarian workers or not. Thank you. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2016-03-30-162	Thank you very much. I give the floor to Congressman András Schiffer, Head of the Group, for two minutes.
u2016-03-30-163	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, The question remains whether they are aware of what they are doing. Firstly, the starting point of the LMP is, of course, that both the settlement bond business should be concluded very urgently and the institution of the priority strategic partnership agreements should be terminated very urgently. Compared to this, this bill is a classified case of treason. Mr. Secretary. On the one hand, you are pushing the business of offshore knights on the other hand, and on the other hand, you are openly taking on a policy that not only puts Hungarian small and medium-sized enterprises in an even more disadvantaged position vis-à-vis multinational companies, but also punches Hungarian workers in the face. For decades, they have said that the reason why the various multinational assembly plants need to be bothered is because they will create jobs. Compared to this, there is a bill, where they open the doors wide to bring people from outside to Hungary more freely. Then what are we talking about? Mr. Secretary. What is paid for as job creation aid is what is not taxed here in Hungary in the name of the residency bond business, but in the Cayman Islands is the theft of the Hungarian national economy. And do you - well, has our fellow Member Firtl gone out - have the nerve to talk about the interests of the Hungarian people? ! [[18.40]] At the time when the companies that take over the settlement bond business aren't here, they're not here, they're not here? Then why not refer to the people of the Cayman Islands, because this business will not be good for the Hungarian people! I told the keynote speaker how much this shortens the Hungarian taxpayers. I need you to answer that very urgently. Thank you very much.
u2016-03-30-164	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congressman Sallai R. Benedek, LMP, who has applied for a comment.
u2016-03-30-165	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, First of all, if I may, let me point out the strange fact that Fidesz was able to stop its descent with this migrant crisis. Compared to this, there is a single Fidesz MP, the lead speaker, representing the two entire factions alone, and there is a secretary of state who has a duty at work to be here as rapporteur, and I can obviously consider him to be here voluntarily, but I cannot see him as being here, because it is fitting for the author to be here. This debate is very interesting not only because the enthusiasm of Fidesz and KDNP thus monitors this relatively thick material, but also because there are very interesting topics about the presentation and before I get to the presentation, let me mention something of this. Congressman Mátyás Firtl specifically made this statement as an argument: the threat of terrorism has increased. This example was published on the ISIS website just two days ago, when it was said that today is Brussels, tomorrow is Portugal or Hungary. Yes, the interesting thing is that when, a year ago, together with Jobbik, we represented, by accident, that Hungarian soldiers should not be taken to places that would increase the threat of terrorism, they said from your ranks that this would not be mentioned, that this would not be done. Now, when there is responsibility for what has increased the threat of terrorism, they do not mention that you have taken the Hungarian soldiers to fight in places where they have no business, because America and the CIA are doing their own little parties, and then you are leading out the Hungarian soldiers, who would have a place and a duty to defend Hungarian borders or Hungary's internal security, because we also need to talk about this when you talk about the increase in the threat of terrorism, Mátyás Firtl. And obviously it is also a matter of saying that hundreds of thousands of people will arrive on the continent, and this is very damaging to the security of Hungary. This is a very, very interesting question, because now, when we see and face the threat of terrorism in Eastern Europe, it is always a question of who is the greater danger. Many say that the former goatherd whose child and wife are no longer alive and his last little hut was bombed is a threat, but the facts say that capital and money are a greater threat. You let capital and money into the country, while the poor people who no longer have anything say they should be excluded, and obviously these differences in value occur when we read this proposal, and it is appropriate to have a few words about it. What we have here, as the amendment to be voted, is obviously to ask what Christian European value the new direction that is emerging in terms of the current exercise of asylum is. So, if you don't think it's intrusive, I'm just curious, because I've been looking for this, but I couldn't find much reference to it, and I couldn't really find a parallel either to the teachings of the Bible or to your presentation, in which obviously it would be good to have some answers. What is equality, protection, fairness, loyalty and truth telling to the Government of Hungary today? And it is obviously important how all these values appear in the building up of Christian democracy that you represent in every word. The reason why I wanted to take advantage of the possibility of saying is obviously for some level of human rights commitment, because the issue of asylum is certainly also a political symbol of how civilised a state, what European values, what Christian values we live with in Hungary today. However, this is not a symbol of terrorism, as opposed to the setting of the government, but a sign that, in this world, humanist values and Christian values that are accessible to all, there is no way to start over in a civilized society at all, an individual is not necessarily locked in the shackles of his fate and immediate environment. Because that's what we need to talk about when we're talking about the asylum issue, and that somewhere in the world, if there's any possibility, he's giving a helping hand through the human community to the man in distress, and he's telling him there's more. How do you represent this value with this proposal? The Government of Hungary wishes to deny this opportunity to a wider society, so that every layer of those who come to us will virtually deny it with this proposal, except for a tight slice, and this is the one tight slice that has money. 'Cause I wonder where the Bible or European values teach you how to tell people apart, look, take the rich one to help, and take the poor one who doesn't need your help, shut him out? Where is this? What values do you try to represent with this thought, with this thought? So this is the only privileged layer from whom the government hopes money to finance its activities. What other consideration can be given to excluding the masses of people in need and letting anyone who puts enough money into the government's bank account into this much-mentioned settlement bond business, mentioned by my group leader? The draft includes amounts of a magnitude of between EUR 50 and EUR 100 thousand, which an average person cannot follow. You guys ever ask the settlement policy buyers where they got the money, what they got, did anyone give it to them to come here, or did they get it? If they got it, did they get it legally? What interest do they have in settling down, and we are talking about 15-20-30 million in Hungarian money, is this citizenship worth it? Because obviously this is the question of whether you are examining with your high moral expectations that these are criminals in your own country, tax frauds or perhaps former corrupt politicians. In this package of laws, it's just, like, everywhere else, redistributing wealth from the poorer to the pals, killing all moral values. And this is important because forgive me for coming with my own expertise, but this value system is much more present in your everyday policy than any Christian or European values. Take what's left of the poor and give it to the friends. That's what we see with the field privatization, that's what we see with a bunch of other activities that their everyday activities do. At the same time, I thank you for showing me the Christian values in the proposal, because I wouldn't have basically started to deal with it from myself, but if I saw the government lying to an entire country that it was leading its constituents in defence of the values it is now denying, we can obviously see maladministration here. You want to defend the values that you refuse to do when you refuse to give a helping hand to someone who might need it, because it is very, very important that the kind of discrimination that Prime Minister Viktor Orbán introduced at the time of the French terrorist attack, in order to distinguish between the economic immigrant and the refugee, is now largely disappearing, and the refugee, the needy, is also taken under the same conditions as everyone else, and it is not considered that there is another person who needs this help hand. Obviously, this is very dangerous for the government, and therefore it brings up very easily verifiable and irrefutable values for Fidesz. Let me quote a passage from Matthew's Gospel: "For with what judgment they are judged, they are judged, and with what measure they measure, they also measure you. And this will be a very important aspect for the future of Fidesz, that if you discover the crowd you have led, a significant part of your current voting base, how they have been deceived by these values, which are regularly mentioned. Because what you are doing now is neither the language of politics nor the language of high diplomacy nor the language of negotiations. We need raw, transparent, clean speech, in the language of those simple people, as the Scriptures have been written and are trying to represent. The government has said so much about Christianity that I'm beginning to miss it. The country where voting pro-government representatives press the buttons on orders here, with great discipline and fines on the basis of a cry, what the future of the country should be, can only be achieved if you cannot step out of the world of 888, the Századvég, Volkswagen Multivanok, the world of offshore accounts, and you cannot let go of this world, and you do not venture among those whom you are supposed to represent, and therefore you cannot represent what the prophet Malachi said, because he also said: "I have also made you miserable, and you are an abomination to the whole people because you have not kept my way, but you have been partial to the law. And this selection of persons, which the prophet has formulated, is your law, which has now been brought here, because they are choosing the rich, the poor, and they are doing it in such a way that they obviously reserve the right to dispose of their own, by many, by their propaganda minister, by Rogán, of the purchase of grunded bonds by Rasputin of Habony. [[18.50]] Obviously, the question arises as to what the protection that he intends to provide to the Christian government means, for if I understand this text correctly, the fact that we do not shoot anyone to death is already implementing this fundamental principle. The explanatory statement is also outrageous and cynical, as they want to avoid, I quote, the possibility of effective action against mass abusers of the asylum institution. Well, please tell me how many of you have abused. 'Cause if you've been abused so far, you've done your job wrong, you're gonna have to take a few heads off the Immigration Department if you're not fit to take advantage of this system. Because they can't run a system normally, they're not capable of steering what's in your hands, they don't need to change the system, they need to change the people you've entrusted it to. That's what I'm talking about. And you're hiding behind this, that there's mass abuse here. So tell me these specific figures of what these abuses are and find out who is responsible for these abuses. I would obviously like to know if the government could show the masses of asylum abusers where they are in Hungary, because if they are given to people under the planned laws, I can practically say, our fellow citizens, how will they be equal to us? This argument arises on several occasions as to how the right to housing, learning, language administration, employment is applied by eliminating integration opportunities, since you are the only important tool, the opportunity to integrate from those who really need it, and this is also with tremendous force, by committing unworthyness. All this is done by representatives of a government whose leaders were still learning English from Soros Scholarship, because it was important to achieve integration at some level at European level. That's what you're going to deny to everyone else. Based on the justification on page 61, we have practically an experiment in mind when, within the planned package of measures, the three-year revision of the status is justified by the fact that, I quote, it is also suitable for monitoring the depth of integration. Tracking the depth of integration. I would be very interested to know how to follow the depths of political decency and how to follow the depths of credible governance, but if you want to follow the depth of integration, it would obviously be good to have a measure of this, which you would introduce, because I am afraid it would give us a very ugly picture of the moral background of the current government. It is precisely the integration opportunities that ensure equality with Hungarian citizens, the possibility of survival in the case of protected persons. It is cynical and outrageous to the very core to eliminate the possibility of equality on the grounds of equality! You're taking away the opportunity to be equal, while you're talking about creating equality. Why? They give you the right to vote right away? Or what makes them more equal if these supply options and integration costs are withdrawn? Obviously, this is a hypocritical argument, which is not very acceptable, and therefore the equal word is not very welcome here. The only visible objective of the amendment to the Asylum Act is to prevent refugees from integrating and integrating. If that is your goal, then this is the one thing you have to say, and everything else that my fellow Member Firtl has said about the threat of terrorism and everything else, it is practically a humbug that we do not have to deal with very, very much. In this way, Hungary's refugee policy can be perfectly reduced to the same level as Turkey and other friendly states, Iran, and this is roughly how Hungary will stand on this issue. Based on the justification, the purpose of the amendment to the Asylum Act is to reduce costs. How much did it cost and how much will it cost? As a matter of interest, I recommend to you the research carried out by an Austrian professional organisation, which estimated the costs of the three-year review to be significantly higher and measured than if it were to review the effectiveness of the procedure. Technically, the status rates have changed insignificantly, so they have placed a large pile of additional costs for the whole system that were completely unjustified, because they are not talking about how much it will cost to maintain the system you are proposing now, how effective the measurement will be. Will they see in the minds of the people how good they were when they came to Hungary? How's this gonna work? How many people are gonna deal with it? Tell me the exact calculations, because the explanation doesn't tell us that either. Obviously, if this is not done, they will also deceive their own fellow factions, not to mention the majority of Hungarian society. The further question is that if recognised refugees and beneficiaries already receiving integration support lose their current integration support, how will they do so? What is the current solution? I don't see the measure. If the obligation of family helpers to do so ceases, who will carry out the task for a transitional period? How are they gonna handle this? Or are they going to reverse this, too? Is there going to be some kind of retroactive effect? How can this be accomplished in your vision? Nevertheless, it must be said that the government's greatest crime in the only important area is the abuse it is committing by not doing good. Again, I quote from the Bible, from the letter of James, we can find out: "Whoever can do good, but who doesn't, is guilty of it. In the last six years, you could have done a great deal of good to the country and done a great deal of good to Hungarian society. Your crime is not merely what you have committed, it is what you have not done, and it is also a sin for those who turn to Hungary for help, who need it, not to help it. And that's why they're gonna be judged. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[Dr. András Schiffer applauds.]]
u2016-03-30-166	Thank you very much, Congressman. I give the floor to Congressman Dániel Z. Carpathian, Jobbik.
u2016-03-30-167	Mr President, Dear House, I cannot say that the quick opportunity to speak caught me by surprise, since we see that there is no serious debate here. In short, my proposal is to withdraw these ten packages; I do not want to call them garbage, because there are a lot of codificators on demand, but it has put in the work that we should respect. But withdraw this package of paper, submit only a package full of restrictions on the migration situation, which meets the expectations of the Hungarian society in some way, because here we have something indefensible on which we need to ask concrete questions once again: how can the Government of Hungary, with this package, provide workers from third countries with additional rights and protection that cannot arise today for a Hungarian worker? Once again, I would like to point out that in your package it is stated that the employment authority, the main contractor or the related intermediate sub-contractor is to be established if the subcontractor is an employer who employs third-country nationals in the framework of seasonal work and has not paid his/her salary until employment is terminated. A Hungarian worker is not protected by such protection, workers brought here by multi-networks from third countries will benefit from the decision of the Government of Hungary. The question is who gave you the authority to provide extra rights to aliens, with rights that do not apply to Hungarian citizens. And in the case of the settlement bond business, our questions are also very clear: do you expect the buyers of the settlement policy, investors or moneymakers to establish a functioning economic network, to engage in real economic activity, or are they just expecting that amount of capital to be brought here? Our second question is also clear: after you have completed this loan agreement in return for the money you have brought here, you have repaid what you promised to repay, what balance are you counting on? In the long term, how much will Hungary pay for selling the hallway of citizenship in respect of the residency bond business, so you are selling residence permits and selling the possibility of entering Hungary? Believe me, there will be plenty of dangerous elements who will have the money to enter the settlement government bond business. We therefore propose that this package be withdrawn, that their migration restrictions be presented in a separate package, because we will support them if they arrive and move to the European battlefield, these harmonisation dictatorships - which are not always dictated, but you want to respond to them - should be rejected, and should not at last fight with chariots in Western European space, replace the chariots with tanks. Thank you for your attention. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2016-03-30-168	Thank you very much. I'll give the floor to Mr. András Schiffer for two minutes, LMP.
u2016-03-30-169	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, In the explanatory statement, I found a pearl in point 8 of the general explanatory statement. It says that the primary direction of tightening up is to reduce the social benefits of asylum seekers and beneficiaries of international protection, which avoids the possibility for so-called economic migrants to apply for asylum in Hungary only in the hope of a better life. Let us now interpret the meaning of this sentence. There are economic migrants and there are refugees. The amendment to the integration treaties, for example, concerns those of whom you, the authority of the Hungarian Government, have stated that it is not an economic migrant, but a refugee. [[19.00]] That's why I'm saying that this whole bill is a complete liar. For that reason, it is cynical for you to say that economic migrants do not come to Hungary in the hope of a better life, and then, in a next paragraph, they ease the business that aims to bring so-called economic migrants to Hungary in the hope of a better life. Because who's the economic migrant? Isn't it the one who wants to come to Hungary in hopes of some kind of economic advantage? Anyone who buys a settlement policy to settle here, where appropriate, acquires Hungarian citizenship, what the hell is it if they are not an economic migrant? So you are messing with the poor people who have lost their country, the Hungarian authorities have given them refugee status, the security of the Hungarian people is afraid of how many square meters they are crouching, and in the meantime they are pushing up the business where uncontrolled people with unchecked backgrounds can come in unhindered. They are selling Hungarian citizenship, and you are not interested in the fact that income from this business is flowing out of Hungary, into various offshore channels. Shame on you! Thank you very much.
u2016-03-30-170	Thank you very much. I give the floor to Congressman Sallai Benedek, LMP.
u2016-03-30-171	Thank you very much. I just want a short one, so I'm not going to talk until the end of the time limit, but I just got the idea of this part of the excuse for a better life. After all, the majority of Hungarian people remain in the hope of a better life here in the country, and trusting in their Hungarianness, they think that someday the country will have a normal government, who will deal with this issue. But this proposal, among other things, is a threat to their hopes. It is clear that the economic policy of the Orbán government, after not being able to achieve any stabilisation of small and medium-sized enterprises in Hungary - indeed, the number of small and medium-sized enterprises in Hungary has repeatedly peaked in the last two years - condemns the country to going into various foreign industries as employees. And what the Prime Minister has to say: our competitiveness is low wages; it is not a goal here to pay people. The aim is not to provide a European life; it is not to allow citizens of the Hungarian region to live in the same quality of life as any EU citizen of Western Europe. And this is being cemented, with this proposal, among other things, when they create an opportunity for the immigration of the guaranteed cheap labour force. And it is clear that this is condemning the country to maintain the competitiveness of the cheap labour force, which you call it, and to ensure that there is an additional cheap labour force, because anyone who cannot keep this inexpensiveness or who does not want to make a living out of 60,000 forints, 70,000 forints, will get out of this labour market. This proposal also contributes to this. Obviously, I would also like to know if one of my fellow members of the Government, the one who is in there, or the Secretary of State, might also answer that, let us say, those costs - as social costs or reduction of care tasks have repeatedly been incurred - are in proportion to the costs we say the government has used for the opposite purposes. So how much did it cost? There was not a whole billion social consultations when people were asked a clear question, and the answer was envelopable. After that, I think it was a campaign of twice 300 million, which had to be given to Minister Rogán's neighbor in an emergency, bypassing public procurement. Then, among friends, let's say we're over a billion and a half forints, which they've already spent on. What kind of expenses do you save? Because if, while doing this, the friends of the Minister of Propaganda are being played with additional resources and other habonyi and migrant settlement bonds, then it may not be such a great benefit for the Hungarian society and the Hungarian budget to be worth discussing. For this reason, I believe that I, for my part, would like to join in the proposal that it would be best to withdraw this whole thing, to rethink what value they want to represent here in Europe, what value they want to localise in the Carpathian Basin, depending on how we deal with those who come to us for help and how we deal with the future of the country in the long term, which can be fundamentally affected by everything that is now being invested in paper. During this rethink, to this wisdom, I wish you the strength to do so and to withdraw this entire proposal. Thank you, Mr. President.
u2016-03-30-172	Thank you, Congressman. I give the floor to Mr. András Schiffer, leader of the group, for two minutes.
u2016-03-30-173	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, The part of the bill where they want to make it easier for key strategic partners to bring employees to Hungary and to obtain and obtain a work permit is precisely an essential element of the policy of Orbán, which is to push down the price of the Hungarian labour force as much as possible. The essence of your economic policy is to make the Hungarian labour force as cheap as possible, to make the Hungarian labour force as exploitable as possible, because this is what you believe will ensure Hungary's competitiveness. They will bring in a bill that will open the gate in the direction in which the price of the Hungarian labour force can be broken down even more. In the same bill, they open the door to pump more money into offshore tomatoes, which is missing money from Hungarian hospitals, Hungarian schools, and this whole scoundrel is being poured down with a migration sauce, saying that this thing has worked for you once in the last year. The only thing they miss is that the policy of embedding Hungary into the global global world economy blood circulation and commercial policy blood circulation should be part of the downward wage competition, and that the country should become competitive by paying ever lower wages to the increasingly vulnerable workforce, this government policy will, unwittingly, strengthen precisely those global processes with its modest means, which have also caused this global migration crisis. So, while you are preaching the fight against economic immigration, this is economic policy, this approach to international trade strengthens the processes that, by the way, cause millions of people to travel all over the planet. They don't see it, but they're confirming exactly the story they've declared a fight against. Thank you very much.
u2016-03-30-174	Thank you very much, Congressman. I'm gonna see if there's any other applications, any comments. [[No signal.]] I don't see any contact. Then, if you wish to take your leave of absence, Mr Secretary of State, on behalf of the author, I give you the floor. You have a 30-minute time frame.
u2016-03-30-175	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, First of all, I would like to thank the representatives of the Fidesz and KDNP fractions [[Dr. Tamás Bellozó: The plural is strong. Intercoms from LMP and Jobbik: Where are they? There's one here.]] who have given their support to the bill. [[Noise, interruptions from the opposition benches. The president's ringing the bell.]] Mr Miklós Simon and Mr Mátyás Firtl, who supported the bill. I call on the Members of Parliament and the factions to support this proposal in the vote on the bill. As regards the contributions of the opposition representatives speaking, I would also like to thank them for their contributions. I believe that these comments, although they contained a lot of material errors and often had a temper and included a voice such as Mr Dániel Z. Karpát or Congressman Sallai R. Benedek, who asked the government to withdraw the bill, I would like to thank you for this, and I would not withdraw the proposal completely, so I would like to thank you for their comments, apart from that. Allow me to turn to the response to what my fellow opposition Members have said. I would also like to thank Mr Tamás Bellozó for his contribution. I would like to say that the residence permit guarantees the same freedom of movement within the Union as the residence permit, and that only those who live here live in a way of life are entitled to additional rights under the legislation. So I would like to stress that it applies only to those who live in Hungary in a way of life, who receive the additional right. This answers a lot of questions, which were unsubstantiated in the debate. Recognized refugees and beneficiaries continue to receive assistance from the state, but only as much as a Hungarian citizen is entitled to. [[19.10]] It is a category of protection accepted because it is linked to the non-refoulement of the granting of status, which is being examined by the asylum authority. The majority of those admitted have been accepted as a result of the asylum procedure and as a result, the statistics are not affected. At the end of his speech, my fellow bellsman expressed a veiled threat - who spoke about the pulpit - addressed to the pro-government representatives. That's what I'd like to refuse. Mr Dániel Z. Kárpát was the next Member, who said, among other things, the restoration of the border guard. I would like to say that the Hungarian police border police department, together with the military, is responsible for the protection of the Hungarian borders. I would also like to thank the police, border police and soldiers who defend Hungarian borders, Hungarian people, Hungary and Hungarian security. We trust that they will continue to do so effectively in the future. I would also like to say that the Government will continue to support this in the future. Continuing with my comments on the comments made by Mr Dániel Z. Kárpát, I would like to say that the present bill does not contain any newly introduced benefits. An intra-corporate transfer means a transfer to subsidiaries of a company established in a third country located in the Member States of the Union, only to senior managers, experts and trainees. So it only applies to seniors, experts and trainees, not to everyone, i.e. only to a narrow circle. In addition, they do not work without authorisation, and for a maximum period of three months, this rule applies to holders of residence permits issued by other States of the Union. Work in Hungary must be announced, which fully reflects the directive's rules on short mobility. Those admitted shall be granted a residence permit of up to one year, which shall be kept under constant review. With regard to deportation, we note that if this comment concerns Dublin III, then it has EU foundations, Hungary cannot cancel it. On this basis, we will also send back migrants who did not enter the European Union in Hungary. I would like to say the following on Mr András Schiffer's comment. His comment was emotional and contained strong outbursts about his wording. I would like to respond realisticly and calmly to the comments raised, and I hope that Mr President will also take note of these reactions. No EU rules or international conventions provide for the level of aid. We don't sell citizenship for money, you can get a residence permit. During the procedure, the Constitutional Protection Office, the police and TEK shall examine applicants in all cases, taking into account both national security and public security aspects. This was also said in the course of the institution's debate itself and in the course of the amendments to the institution. It seems that these arguments are not being heard by my fellow opposition Members, which is regrettable, because I still felt that we had a detailed debate on this legal institution today, because it was just an amendment. The company selling the settlement policy is always chosen by the Economic Commission, and you know it. Members of the opposition have the right to appeal to the Economic Committee on this matter either with their objections or with any questions that may be raised in this regard. As far as the workers employed in the German factories mentioned by Mr Schiffer are concerned, I would like to say that in this case we are not talking about the workers, we are talking about seniors and experts, highly qualified persons. An intra-corporate transfer includes only compliance with EU law, which is binding on all Member States. The strategic partners would be so relieved in the procedure that they themselves could submit their requests abroad and the deadline would be minimal. I would like to say, on behalf of Congressman Sallai R. Benedek, that he referred to the fact that he could not find the Christian principles set out in the bill in the Bible. My advice to you is to continue to turn the Bible patiently and hope that you will find the principles that you have missed in these legislative proposals. I think that this activity is certainly also in the interests of the Member and in his spiritual comfort, and we trust that he will be given answers to the questions on which he is awaiting answers from the Bible. As regards the fact that more than two thirds of applicants did not wait for the asylum procedure to be completed, they disappeared from reception centres within a week. The purpose of the application was only to continue to travel to another country of the Union and to avoid the alien police procedure. Last year, more than 150,000 of the 177,000 cases were eliminated because the applicant had gone to an unknown location. The three-year review has been introduced in several States of the Union, as the safety situation in the country of origin may change during this period. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Parliament, I think we are discussing a very important bill right now. I would like to thank my fellow Members, both pro-government and opposition, for their participation in the debate and their contributions. We are confident that the amendments tabled will make this law even better. I would like to say that, in the view of the Government, this bill meets Hungary's national interests, this bill serves Hungary's national interests, and I would like to reject the opposition contributions that questioned it, and the government or government's bodies are charged with various accusations during the debate. It's completely unfounded. I ask the Honourable Parliament to support the bill in voting. I trust that we can obtain as much support as possible in the vote, since, once again, this proposal is in the interests of Hungary's national interests. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2016-03-30-176	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, According to Parliament's dramaturgy, the debate is closed. Thank you for the closing. The amendment proposals can be submitted by 4 p.m. on Friday. Dear Parliament, There follows a general debate between Hungary and the Republic of Slovenia on the draft law on the publication of the Treaty on the change of state borders as a result of the regulation of the water management of the Lendva Creeks until closure. The government referral is T/9631. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, I give the floor to Mr Károly Kontra, Secretary of State of the Ministry of the Interior, author of the item on the agenda.
u2016-03-30-177	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, The bill before you amends the previous agreement on the renewal, marking and maintenance of the border and border signs at the Hungarian-Yugoslav state border, which was concluded in Belgrade on 20 October 1983. The new Treaty was signed by the parties on 22 January 2016, the drafting of which took place at the meetings of the Hungarian-Slovenian Joint Committee and at bilateral expert meetings. The amendment was expected to be necessary because the border section of the Hungarian-Slovenian common state border changed due to the water management work on the Lendva Creek, and there was a territorial difference in the separated areas of the state. The reduction of the area will be settled by agreement between the parties in the region of Tornyeszentmiklós and the Slovenian municipality of Pince. [[19.20]] Following the entry into force of the Treaty, the border document forming an integral part of it shall change the current numbering of the border marks. I ask the Honourable Parliament to support this proposal. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2016-03-30-178	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Now we're going to hear the speeches from the lead speaker. First, I give the floor to Mónika Bartos, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group.
u2016-03-30-179	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Mr. Secretary. Fellow Members! Lendva Creek is one of the largest rivers of northern eastern Slovenia, which is the left-wing tributary of the river Mura. The 76 km long stream also constitutes a border between Hungary and Slovenia, which flows to Mura in the easternmost part of Slovenia near the Croatian-Slovenian-Hungarian triple border. In the 1850s the so-called Lendva-Adonna channel was built, which is located in the territory of today's Slovenia. The main draining channel was dug up in the wide Muravölgy from Muraszomba to Muraszemenye, which leads to Kerka. The works were then started in Austrian territory. Today, as a result of the change in history, new conventions regulate cooperation. The Statutes of the Permanent Hungarian-Slovenian Water Management Committee are annexed to a convention signed in Ljubljana on 21 October 1994. It is important that water management issues in the watercourses and water catchment areas forming or incising the border can be resolved in such a way that the interests of both countries are respected. It is now necessary to regulate the water management of the Lendva Creek and, consequently, the state boundary between border mark A 613 and border sign A 643.2 should be defined. The adjustment means that the area of 25 747 sq m of the state territory of Hungary will be transferred to the territory of the Republic of Slovenia, and we will take over the same size of the territory from Slovenia as compensation, so that the territory of Hungary remains unchanged. This is to be achieved by the convention before us. I would ask my fellow Members to support this. Thank you very much.
u2016-03-30-180	Thank you very much. I now give the floor to Attila Mesterházy, the lead speaker of the MSZP Group.
u2016-03-30-181	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, I'm not expecting a big debate about the bill, but let me say a few sentences about the bill, because perhaps it's the right thing to do. Hungary's relations with Slovenia have been settled, we have been in diplomatic relations with each other since 1992, a number of cooperation treaties and basic treaties regulate the cooperation of the two countries, which, of course, we can say to God that we can talk about good quality strategic cooperation. This good relationship is constantly being pursued by the current government with joint government meetings, and such a government meeting was held in 2007, 2009 and January this year, and Parliament voted recently on the Convention between Hungary and the Republic of Slovenia on the exchange and mutual protection of classified information, and this is only interesting because this convention was signed by the parties at the joint government meeting together with this international agreement, which is now on the agenda. This treaty, as my fellow Member Mónika Bartos said, is justified by the change in the line of the state border at the border of the Hungarian-Slovenian common border, and this change is due to the water management work carried out on the Lendva Creek, which has led to a change in the Lendva stream medre and thus to the need for a certain change of territory. As a result of the change in the line of the state border, there is a territorial difference in the separated areas of the state, which is about 11 900 square metres, and this reduction is settled by the parties in the area of the Hungarian town of Towerszentmiklós and the Slovenian settlement of Pince. We believe that this treaty is completely in order, so the Hungarian Socialist Party's parliamentary group naturally supports the presentation. Thank you very much. [[Charles Kontra applauds.]]
u2016-03-30-182	Thank you very much. Obviously, the other political groups do not have a keynote speech, an independent Member does not wish to speak, no one has applied for a two-minute speech, and I do not see a sign for any further speeches, so, honourable Parliament, the general debate is closed, and I give the floor to the rapporteur, Mr Károly Kontra, State Secretary.
u2016-03-30-183	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, I would like to thank Mrs Mónika Bartos, representative of Fidesz, for her support and support, in which she said that the Fidesz fraction supports the bill. Thank you very much, and I ask that you also support it in the vote. I would also like to thank Mr Attila Mesterházy for his contribution, who said that the MSZP fraction supports the bill, and I would also like to ask you, too, Member, to support it in the vote. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, The bill submitted corresponds to the national interests of Hungary, so I ask the Honourable Parliament to support it. Thank you for your attention.
u2016-03-30-184	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, The amendment proposals can be submitted by 4 p.m. on Friday. We have reached the end of the discussion of our agendas today. Dear Parliament, The only post-meeting speech that Dániel Z. Kárpát, the representative of Jobbik, has come forward to address will now take place:, For how long? It's called the 2nd. I'll give you the floor in a five-minute time frame.
u2016-03-30-185	Mr President, Dear House, We can ask the question many times: how much longer, because there are tumultuous problems in the sky over Hungary that simply call for a solution, but one of these also stands out, in the midst of the foreign exchange crisis, the problems of home creation, and the migration crisis, is the one that actually represents the foundation for the entire stage on which, for example, the phenomenon of immigration has been recorded and recorded in the last year and a half, and this is the tragic, dramatic loss of population. Let us not argue with this government's experiments, real attempts at action, and thought experiments regarding the fact that, let us say, in the form of a family tax allowance, very serious sums of money were transferred to the Hungarian families concerned, let us add that this was wholly located in the upper middle class and the richer could use it, but it was at least a positive intervention, if not complete, and even if it could not be completed in the social groups from which most children could be expected, or in the parts of the middle class threatened by a break-off. But what we can see is that despite the money that has been grouped here, the number of living births has only been able to increase within the margin of error, it has not been possible to slow down the rate of population loss, so it seems that these billions are the only solutions that cannot be reached. If we are talking about the rate of population loss, several of our fellow Members from KDNP have defended themselves by saying that the fertility rate is slightly improving; in my view it is roughly within the statistical margin of error, but I am pleased with this improvement, so we cannot be counter-cooperative. However, we have to see that in 2014 there were 35 thousand fewer of us, and a year later there were 40,000 fewer of us, so the rate of population loss measured in numbers, in very stubborn numbers, has unfortunately increased, but at the same time liberal voices wishing to solve this problem by emigrating and replenishing from the outside have been strengthened, but this solution, once again, could lead only to national death. It is therefore worth considering where to go. It could be a good direction to widen family home creation benefits, but here we also see that the government has developed a solution that can actually affect the upper middle class and upwards, with an incomprehensible philosophical background to justify all this, that they are trying to move the Hungarians to new homes and new homes, among whom - already the number and composition of applicants for the CSOK show this - more than 90 percent simply cannot afford to invest in a new home, let alone a new-built residential property. [[19.30]] So we can say that Jobbik prefers to support solutions that fit the Hungarian reality. Among these solutions are the promotion of the purchase of used property, the promotion of renovation, energy modernisation and the expansion, even without new subins, which is absolutely lifelike in rural areas, with the expansion of the doorway for parents to start a new life for young people, the desired child can come into existence. From these three directions, therefore, at least the preferential loan for CSOK should be fully opened and opened. Unfortunately, despite our warnings, this did not happen. At the same time, we see that, under the name of NOK, the government has legalized and re-introduced a government in 24 hours, where, in a pathetic way, they are doomed to place at home contributors whose biggest discount mass is once again enjoyed by those who are able to pay 70-80,000 forints a month. But even they are in danger that if these companies and companies fall for it, in fact, no guarantee element ensures that the people who pay for it get their money, do not act like they did before, or do not act like the Quaestor-damaged ones did. At the same time, we would have a miracle weapon that could not only ease home creation. Here, it would be the public housing program that can make a difference. But most of all, it could make life easier for Hungarian families living in a simple line. This could be a radical reduction in the VAT content of basic foods, coupled with a radical reduction in the VAT content of child-bearing products. We therefore find it difficult that the government voted outrageously against our VAT reduction plans today. Therefore, Jobbik will do everything in the near future to prevent, at least in terms of reducing the VAT content of child-rearing articles, the biggest tax on childbearing in Hungary throughout Europe. Thank you for your attention. [[Lajos Rig applauds.]]
u2016-03-30-186	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Since we have reached the end of the speech after the agenda, I thank you for your work. The Parliament will resume its meeting next week at 11 a.m. Meeting day's closed. I wish you a restful good night. [[Meeting ended at 7:32 p.m.]]
